[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should consider carefully the following information about the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report before you decide to buy or maintain an investment in our common stock. We believe the risks described below are the risks that are material to us as of the date of this Annual Report. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, may also become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our common stock.. 12. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS. We will need to raise additional capital to fund our operations, and there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern.. This report includes disclosures stating that our existing cash resources and our accumulated stockholders' deficit raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We will need to raise additional capital, whether through the sale of equity or debt securities, additional strategic business collaborations, the establishment of other funding facilities, licensing arrangements, asset sales or other means, in order to support our ongoing activities, including the commercialization of Afrezza and the development of our product candidates, and to avoid defaulting under the financial covenant in our Facility Agreement with Deerfield Private Design Fund II, L.P. and Deerfield Private Design International II, L.P. (collectively, \"Deerfield\") dated July 1, 2013 (as amended, the \"Facility Agreement\"), which requires us to maintain at least $25.0 million in cash and cash equivalents , or available borrowings under the loan arrangement, dated as of October 2, 2007, between us and The Mann Group LLC (as amended, \"The Mann Group Loan Arrangement\"), as of the last day of each fiscal quarter.  On June 29, 2017, we entered into an Exchange and Third Amendment to the Facility Agreement (the \"Third Amendment\") with Deerfield, which, among other things, amended such financial covenant to provide that, if certain conditions remain satisfied, then the obligation to maintain at least $25.0 million in cash and cash equivalents as of the end of each quarter will be reduced to $10.0 million as of the last day of each month through October 31, 2017 and as of December 31, 2017. We met the required conditions as of the last day of each of those periods. It may be difficult for us to raise additional funds on favorable terms, or at all. As of December 31, 2017, we had cash and cash equivalents of $43.9 million and a stockholders' deficit of $214.7 million. Our cash position, together with our short-term debt obligations and anticipated operating losses due to increased effort on commercialization and research and development projects, raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The extent of our additional funding requirements will depend on a number of factors, including:. •  the degree to which Afrezza is commercially successful;. •  the degree to which we are able to generate revenue from our Technosphere drug delivery platform;. •  the costs of developing and commercializing Afrezza on our own in the United States, including the costs of expanding our commercialization capabilities;. •  the costs of finding regional collaboration partners for the development and commercialization of Afrezza in foreign jurisdictions;. •  the demand by any or all of the holders of  our debt instruments to require us to repay or repurchase such debt securities if and when required;. •  our ability to repay or refinance existing indebtedness, and the extent to which our notes with conversion options or any other convertible debt securities we may issue are converted into or exchanged for shares of our common stock;. •  the rate of progress and costs of our clinical studies and research and development activities;. •  the costs of procuring raw materials and operating our manufacturing facilities;. •  our obligation to make milestone payments pursuant to a Milestone Rights Purchase Agreement (the \"Milestone Agreement\") with Deerfield and Horizon Santé FLML SÁRL (collectively, the \"Milestone Purchasers\"), which requires us to make contingent payments to the Milestone Purchasers, totaling up to $90.0 million, upon us achieving specified commercialization milestones (the \"Milestone Rights\");. •  our success in establishing strategic business collaborations or other sales or licensing of assets, and the timing and amount of any payments we might receive from any such transactions;. •  actions taken by the FDA and other regulatory authorities affecting Afrezza and our product candidates and competitive products;. •  the emergence of competing technologies and products and other market developments;. •  the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights or defending against claims of infringement by others;. •  the level of our legal and litigation expenses; and. •  the costs of discontinuing projects and technologies, and/or decommissioning existing facilities, if we undertake any such activities.. We have raised capital in the past through the sale of equity and debt securities and we may in the future pursue the sale of additional equity and/or debt securities, or the establishment of other funding facilities including asset-based borrowings. There can be no assurances, however, that we will be able to raise additional capital in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. Issuances of additional debt or equity securities or the issuance of common stock upon conversion of outstanding convertible debt securities or upon the exercise of our currently outstanding warrants for shares of our common stock could impact the rights of the holders of our common stock and will dilute their ownership percentage. Moreover, the establishment of other funding facilities may impose restrictions on our operations. These restrictions could include limitations on additional borrowing and specific restrictions on the use of our assets, as well as prohibitions on our ability to create liens, pay dividends, redeem our stock or make investments. We also will need to raise additional capital by pursuing opportunities for the licensing or sale of certain intellectual property and other assets. We cannot offer assurances, however, that any strategic collaborations, sales of securities or sales or licenses of assets will be available to us on a timely basis or on acceptable terms, if at all. We may be required to enter into relationships with third parties to develop or commercialize products or technologies that we otherwise would have sought to develop independently, and any such relationships may not be on terms as commercially favorable to us as might otherwise be the case.. 13. In the event that sufficient additional funds are not obtained through strategic collaboration opportunities, sales of securities, funding facilities, licensing arrangements and/or asset sales on a timely basis, we may be required to reduce expenses through the delay, reduction or curtailment of our projects, or further reduction of costs for facilities and administration. Moreover, if we do not obtain such additional funds, there will continue to be substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern and increased risk of insolvency and up to total loss of investment to our stockholders and other security holders. As of the date hereof, we have not obtained a solvency opinion or otherwise conducted a valuation of our properties to determine whether our debts exceed the fair value of our property within the meaning of applicable solvency laws. If we are or become insolvent, holders of our common stock or other securities may lose the entire value of their investment.. We cannot provide assurances that changed or unexpected circumstances will not result in the depletion of our capital resources more rapidly than we currently anticipate. There can be no assurances that we will be able to raise additional capital in sufficient amounts or on favorable terms, or at all. If we are unable to raise adequate additional capital when required or in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, we may have to delay, scale back or discontinue one or more product development programs, curtail our commercialization activities, significantly reduce expenses, sell assets (potentially at a loss), enter into relationships with third parties to develop or commercialize products or technologies that we otherwise would have sought to develop or commercialize independently, cease operations altogether, pursue an acquisition of our company at a price that may result in up to a total loss on investment for our stockholders, file for bankruptcy or seek other protection from creditors, or liquidate all of our assets. In addition, if we default under the Facility Agreement. Deerfield could foreclose on substantially all of our assets.. Our prospects are heavily dependent on the successful commercialization of our only approved product, Afrezza. The continued commercialization and development of Afrezza will require substantial capital that we may not be able to obtain.. We have expended significant time, money and effort in the development of our only approved product, Afrezza. We anticipate that in the near term our prospects and ability to generate significant revenues will heavily depend on our ability to successfully commercialize Afrezza in the United States. We anticipate that our near term revenues will also, to a much lesser extent, depend on our ability to enter into licensing arrangements for our Technosphere platform technology that involve license, milestone, royalty or other payments to us.. We assumed responsibility for worldwide commercialization of Afrezza in April 2016, prior to which time Sanofi was responsible for global commercial activities for Afrezza. We began distributing Afrezza in the United States in late July 2016, and intend to continue the commercialization of Afrezza in the United States through our own commercial organization. Successful commercialization of Afrezza is subject to many risks and there are many factors that could cause the commercialization of Afrezza to be unsuccessful, including a number of factors that are outside our control. We ultimately may be unable to gain market acceptance of Afrezza for a variety of reasons, including the treatment and dosage regimen, potential adverse effects, relative pricing compared with alternative products, the availability of alternative treatments and lack of coverage or adequate reimbursement.. We have never, as an organization, launched or commercialized a product other than Afrezza, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully do so with Afrezza. There are numerous examples of unsuccessful product launches, second launches that underperform original expectations and other failures to fully exploit the market potential of drug products, including by pharmaceutical companies with more experience and resources than us. During our initial transition of the commercial responsibilities from Sanofi, we utilized a contract sales organization to promote Afrezza while we focused our internal resources on establishing a channel strategy, entering into distribution agreements and developing co-pay assistance programs, a voucher program, data agreements and payor relationships. In early 2017, we recruited our own specialty sales force, which included some of the sales representatives that previously were employed by the contract sales organization. We will need to maintain and continue to build our commercialization capabilities in order to successfully commercialize Afrezza in the United States, and we may not have sufficient resources to do so. The market for skilled commercial personnel is highly competitive, and we may not be able to retain and find and hire all of the personnel we need on a timely basis or retain them for a sufficient period. In addition, Afrezza is a novel insulin therapy with a distinct profile and non-injectable administration, and we are therefore required to expend significant time and resources to train our sales force to be credible, persuasive and compliant with applicable laws in marketing Afrezza for the treatment diabetes to physicians and to ensure that a consistent and appropriate message about Afrezza is being delivered to our potential customers. If we are unable to effectively train our sales force and equip them with effective materials, including medical and sales literature to help them inform and educate potential customers about the benefits of Afrezza and its proper administration, our efforts to successfully commercialize Afrezza could be put in jeopardy, which would negatively impact our ability to generate product revenues.. If we are unable to maintain coverage of, and adequate payment levels for Afrezza, physicians may limit how much or under what circumstances they will prescribe or administer Afrezza. As a result, patients may decline to purchase Afrezza, which would have an adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues.. We are responsible for the NDA for Afrezza and its maintenance. Prior to the termination of the Sanofi License Agreement in April 2016, we had no experience with the maintenance of an NDA and may fail to comply with maintenance requirements, including timely submitting required reports. Furthermore, we are responsible for the conduct of the remaining required post-approval trials of Afrezza. Our financial and other resource constraints may result in delays or adversely impact the reliability and completion of these trials.. 14. Maintaining and further building the internal infrastructure to further develop and commercialize Afrezza is costly and time-consuming, and we may not be successful in our efforts or successful in obtaining financing to support those efforts.. If we fail to successfully commercialize Afrezza in the United States, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected.. We expect that our results of operations will fluctuate for the foreseeable future, which may make it difficult to predict our future performance from period to period.. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to do so in future periods. Some of the factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate from period to period include the factors that will affect our funding requirements described above under \"Risk Factors  -  We will need to raise additional capital to fund our operations, and there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern.\". We believe that comparisons from period to period of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of our future performance.. If we do not obtain regulatory approval of Afrezza in foreign jurisdictions, we will not be able to market Afrezza in any jurisdiction outside of the United States, which could limit our commercial revenues. We may not be successful in establishing regional partnerships or other arrangements with third parties for the commercialization of Afrezza outside of the United States.. While Afrezza has been approved in the United States by the FDA for glycemic control in adult patients with diabetes, we have not yet sought approval in any other jurisdiction other than Brazil. In order to market Afrezza outside of the United States, we must obtain regulatory approval in each applicable foreign jurisdiction, and we may never be able to obtain such approvals. The research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, approval, sale, import, export, marketing, and distribution of pharmaceutical products outside the United States are subject to extensive regulation by foreign regulatory authorities, whose regulations differ from country to country. We will be required to comply with different regulations and policies of the jurisdictions where we seek approval for Afrezza, and we have not yet identified all of the requirements that we will need to satisfy to submit Afrezza for approval for other jurisdictions. This will require additional time, expertise and expense, including the potential need to conduct additional studies or development work for other jurisdictions beyond the work that we have conducted to support the NDA for Afrezza.. Our current strategy for the future commercialization of Afrezza outside of the United States, subject to receipt of the necessary regulatory approvals, is to seek and establish regional partnerships in foreign jurisdictions where there are appropriate commercial opportunities. It may be difficult to find collaboration partners that are able and willing to devote the time and resources necessary to successfully commercialize Afrezza. Collaborations with third parties may require us to relinquish material rights, including revenue from commercialization, agree to unfavorable terms or assume material ongoing development obligations that we would have to fund. These collaboration arrangements are complex and time-consuming to negotiate, and if we are unable to reach agreements with third-party collaborators, we may fail to meet our business objectives and our financial condition may be adversely affected. We may also face significant competition in seeking collaboration partners, especially in the current market, and may not be able to find a suitable collaboration partner in a timely manner on acceptable terms, or at all. Any of these factors could cause delay or prevent the successful commercialization of Afrezza in foreign jurisdictions and could have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market price of our common stock and other securities could decline.. We may not be successful in our efforts to develop and commercialize our product candidates.. We have sought to develop our product candidates through our internal research programs. All of our product candidates will require additional research and development and, in some cases, significant preclinical, clinical and other testing prior to seeking regulatory approval to market them. Accordingly, these product candidates will not be commercially available for a number of years, if at all. Further research and development on these programs will require significant financial resources. Given our limited financial resources and our focus on development and commercialization of Afrezza, we will not be able to advance these programs unless we are able to enter into collaborations with third parties to fund these programs or to obtain funding to enable us to continue these programs.. A significant portion of the research that we have conducted involves new technologies, including our Technosphere platform technology. Even if our research programs identify product candidates that initially show promise, these candidates may fail to progress to clinical development for any number of reasons, including discovery upon further research that these candidates have adverse effects or other characteristics that indicate they are unlikely to be effective. In addition, the clinical results we obtain at one stage are not necessarily indicative of future testing results. If we fail to develop and commercialize our product candidates, or if we are significantly delayed in doing so, our ability to generate product revenues will be limited to the revenues we can generate from Afrezza.. 15. We have a history of operating losses, we expect to incur losses in the future and we may not generate positive cash flow from operations in the future.. The Company is not currently profitable and has rarely generated positive net cash flow from operations. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $2.9 billion. The accumulated deficit has resulted principally from costs incurred in our research and development programs, the write-off of goodwill, inventory and property, plant and equipment and general operating expenses. We expect to make substantial expenditures and to incur increasing operating losses in the future in order to continue the commercialization of Afrezza. In addition, under the amended Insulin Supply Agreement with Amphastar, we agreed to purchase certain annual minimum quantities of insulin for calendar years 2018 through 2023 for an aggregate total remaining purchase price of \20090.3 million at December 31, 2017. We may not have the necessary capital resources on hand in order to service this contractual commitment.. Our losses have had, and are expected to continue to have, an adverse impact on our working capital, total assets and stockholders' equity. Our ability to achieve and sustain positive cash flow from operations and profitability depends heavily upon successfully commercializing Afrezza, and we cannot be sure when, if ever, we will generate positive cash flow from operations or become profitable.. We have a substantial amount of debt, and we may be unable to make required payments of interest and principal as they become due.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $157.8 million principal amount of outstanding debt, consisting of:. •  $23.7 million principal amount of senior convertible notes bearing interest at 5.75% per annum (the \"2021 notes\"), with interest payable in cash semiannually in arrears on February 15 and August 15of each year, and maturing on October 23, 2021;. •  $39.4 million principal amount of notes issued pursuant to the Facility Agreement, bearing interest at 9.75% per annum (the \"2019 notes\"), which is payable in cash quarterly in arrears on the last business day of March, June, September and December of each year, and of which total principal amount $4.4 million was scheduled to become due and payable on January 19, 2018, $15.0 million will become due and payable in each of July 2018 and July 2019, and $5.0 million will become due and payable in December 2019;. •  $15.0 million principal amount of notes issued pursuant to the Facility Agreement, bearing interest at 8.75% per annum (the \"Tranche B notes\" and together with the 2019 notes, the \"Facility Financing Obligation\"), which is payable in cash quarterly in arrears on the last business day of March, June, September, and December of each year, and of which total principal amount $5.0 million will become due and payable in each of May 2018,May 2019, and December 2019; and. •  $79.7 million principal amount of indebtedness under The Mann Group Loan Arrangement maturing on January 5, 2010, bearing interest at a fixed rate of 5.84% per annum payable quarterly in arrears on the first day of each calendar quarter for the preceding quarter, except that the lender has agreed to defer interest payments until July 1, 2018 unless otherwise permitted under the subordination agreement with Deerfield, and such interest payments are subject to additional deferral beyond July 1, 2018 until our payment obligations to Deerfield have been satisfied in full.. On January 18, 2018, we entered into an Exchange and Sixth Amendment to Facility Agreement (the \"Sixth Deerfield Amendment\") with Deerfield, pursuant to which, among other things, we issued to Deerfield an aggregate of 1,267,972 shares of our common stock in exchange for the cancellation of $3,157,251 of 2019 notes. In addition, the payment date for the remaining $1,250,000 in remaining principal amount of the 2019 notes that was previously due to be repaid on January 19, 2018 was extended to May 6, 2018.. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient resources to make any required repayments of principal under the terms of our indebtedness when required. Further, if we undergo a fundamental change, as that term is defined in the indentures governing the terms of the 2021 notes, or certain Major Transactions as defined in the Facility Agreement in respect of the 2019 notes and the Tranche B notes, the holders of the respective debt securities will have the option to require us to repurchase all or any portion of such debt securities at a repurchase price of 100% of the principal amount of such debt securities to be repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. While we have been able to timely make our required interest payments to date, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to do so in the future. If we fail to pay interest on the 2021 notes, 2019 notes, or Tranche B notes, or if we fail to repay or repurchase the 2021 notes, 2019 notes, Tranche B notes, or the loans under The Mann Group Loan Arrangement when required, we will be in default under the instrument for such debt securities or loans, and may also suffer an event of default under the terms of other borrowing arrangements that we may enter into from time to time. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, up to and including the note holders initiating bankruptcy proceedings or causing us to cease operations altogether.. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain covenants that we may not be able to meet and place restrictions on our operating and financial flexibility.. Our obligations under the Facility Agreement, including any indebtedness under the 2019 notes and the Tranche B notes, and the Milestone Agreement are secured by substantially all of our assets, including our intellectual property, accounts receivables, equipment, general intangibles, inventory (excluding the insulin inventory) and investment property, and all of the proceeds and products of the foregoing. Our obligations under the Facility Agreement and the Milestone Agreement are also secured by a certain mortgage on our facility in Danbury, Connecticut. The Facility Agreement includes customary representations, warranties and covenants by us, including restrictions on our ability to incur additional. 16. indebtedness, grant certain liens, engage in certain mergers and acquisitions, make certain distributions and make certain voluntary prepayments. Events of default under the Facility Agreement include: our failure to timely make payments due under the Facility Financing Obligation; inaccuracies in our representations and warranties to Deerfield; our failure to comply with any of our covenants under any of the Facility Agreement, Milestone Agreement or certain other related security agreements and documents entered into in connection with the Facility Agreement, subject to a cure period with respect to most covenants; our insolvency or the occurrence of certain bankruptcy-related events; certain judgments against us; the suspension, cancellation or revocation of governmental authorizations that are reasonably expected to have a material adverse effect on our business; the acceleration of a specified amount of our indebtedness; our cash and cash equivalents falling below $25.0 million as of the last day of any fiscal quarter, or pursuant to the Third Amendment, $10.0 million as of the last day of each month through October 31, 2017 and as of December 31, 2017 if certain conditions are met. We met the required conditions as of the last day of those periods. If we fail to timely pay accrued interest under The Mann Group Loan Arrangement when required, we will be in default under The Mann Group Loan Arrangement. If one or more events of default under the Facility Agreement occurs and continues beyond any applicable cure period, the holders of the Facility Financing Obligation may declare all or any portion of the Facility Financing Obligation to be immediately due and payable. The Milestone Agreement includes customary representations and warranties and covenants by us, including restrictions on transfers of intellectual property related to Afrezza. The milestones are subject to acceleration in the event we transfer our intellectual property related to Afrezza in violation of the terms of the Milestone Agreement.. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with the covenants under any of the foregoing agreements, and we cannot predict whether the holders of the Facility Financing Obligation would demand repayment of the outstanding balance of the Facility Financing Obligation as applicable or exercise any other remedies available to such holders if we were unable to comply with these covenants. The covenants and restrictions contained in the foregoing agreements could significantly limit our ability to respond to changes in our business or competitive activities or take advantage of business opportunities that may create value for our stockholders and the holders of our other securities. In addition, our inability to meet or otherwise comply with the covenants under these agreements could have an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations and could result in an event of default under the terms of our other indebtedness, including our indebtedness under the 2021 notes. In the event of certain future defaults under the foregoing agreements for which we are not able to obtain waivers, the holders of the 2021 notes and Facility Financing Obligation may accelerate all of our repayment obligations, and, with respect to the Facility Financing Obligation, take control of our pledged assets, potentially requiring us to renegotiate the terms of our indebtedness on terms less favorable to us, or to immediately cease operations. If we enter into additional debt arrangements, the terms of such additional arrangements could further restrict our operating and financial flexibility. In the event we must cease operations and liquidate our assets, the rights of any holders of our outstanding secured debt would be senior to the rights of the holders of our unsecured debt and our common stock to receive any proceeds from the liquidation.. If we do not achieve our projected development goals in the timeframes we expect, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be harmed and the market price of our common stock and other securities could decline.. For planning purposes, we estimate the timing of the accomplishment of various scientific, clinical, regulatory and other product development goals, which we sometimes refer to as milestones. These milestones may include the commencement or completion of scientific studies and clinical studies and the submission of regulatory filings. From time to time, we publicly announce the expected timing of some of these milestones. All of these milestones are based on a variety of assumptions. The actual timing of the achievement of these milestones can vary dramatically from our estimates, in many cases for reasons beyond our control, depending on numerous factors, including:. •  the rate of progress, costs and results of our clinical studies and preclinical research and development activities;. •  our ability to identify and enroll patients who meet clinical study eligibility criteria;. •  our ability to access sufficient, reliable and affordable supplies of components used in the manufacture of our product candidates;. •  the costs of expanding and maintaining manufacturing operations, as necessary;. •  the extent to which our clinical studies compete for clinical sites and eligible subjects with clinical studies sponsored by other companies; and. •  actions by regulators.. In addition, if we do not obtain sufficient additional funds through sales of securities, strategic collaborations or the license or sale of certain of our assets on a timely basis, we may be required to reduce expenses by delaying, reducing or curtailing our development of product candidates. If we fail to commence or complete, or experience delays in or are forced to curtail, our proposed clinical programs or otherwise fail to adhere to our projected development goals in the timeframes we expect (or within the timeframes expected by analysts or investors), our business, financial condition and results of operations will be harmed and the market price of our common stock and other securities may decline.. Afrezza or our product candidates may be rendered obsolete by rapid technological change.. A number of established pharmaceutical companies have or are developing technologies for the treatment of unmet medical needs.. 17. The rapid rate of scientific discoveries and technological changes could result in Afrezza or one or more of our product candidates becoming obsolete or noncompetitive. Our competitors may develop or introduce new products that render our technology or Afrezza less competitive, uneconomical or obsolete. For example, in September 2017, Novo Nordisk announced that Fiasp®, a faster formulation of insulin aspart injection, was approved by the FDA. Our future success will depend not only on our ability to develop our product candidates but to improve them and keep pace with emerging industry developments. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do so.. We also expect to face competition from universities and other non-profit research organizations. These institutions carry out a significant amount of research and development in various areas of unmet medical need. These institutions are becoming increasingly aware of the commercial value of their findings and are more active in seeking patent and other proprietary rights as well as licensing revenues.. Continued testing of Afrezza or our product candidates may not yield successful results, and even if it does, we may still be unable to commercialize our product candidates.. Forecasts about the effects of the use of drugs, including Afrezza, over terms longer than the clinical studies or in much larger populations may not be consistent with the earlier clinical results. For example, with the approval of Afrezza, the FDA has required a five-year, randomized, controlled trial in 8,000  -  10,000 patients with type 2 diabetes, the primary objective of which is to compare the incidence of pulmonary malignancy observed with Afrezza to that observed in a standard of care control group. If long-term use of a drug results in adverse health effects or reduced efficacy or both, the FDA or other regulatory agencies may terminate our or any future marketing partner's ability to market and sell the drug, may narrow the approved indications for use or otherwise require restrictive product labeling or marketing, or may require further clinical studies, which may be time-consuming and expensive and may not produce favorable results.. Our research and development programs are designed to test the safety and efficacy of our product candidates through extensive nonclinical and clinical testing. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the testing process that could delay or impact commercialization of any of our product candidates, including the following:. •  safety and efficacy results obtained in our nonclinical and early clinical testing may be inconclusive or may not be predictive of results that we may obtain in our future clinical studies or following long-term use, and we may as a result be forced to stop developing a product candidate or alter the marketing of an approved product;. •  the analysis of data collected from clinical studies of our product candidates may not reach the statistical significance necessary, or otherwise be sufficient to support FDA or other regulatory approval for the claimed indications;. •  after reviewing clinical data, we or any collaborators may abandon projects that we previously believed were promising; and. •  our product candidates may not produce the desired effects or may result in adverse health effects or other characteristics that preclude regulatory approval or limit their commercial use once approved.. As a result of any of these events, we, any collaborator, the FDA, or any other regulatory authorities, may suspend or terminate clinical studies or marketing of the drug at any time. Any suspension or termination of our clinical studies or marketing activities may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market price of our common stock and other securities may decline.. If our suppliers fail to deliver materials and services needed for the production of Afrezza in a timely and sufficient manner or fail to comply with applicable regulations, and if we fail to timely identify and qualify alternative suppliers, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed and the market price of our common stock and other securities could decline.. For the commercial manufacture of Afrezza, we need access to sufficient, reliable and affordable supplies of insulin, our Afrezza inhaler, the related cartridges and other materials. Currently, the only approved source of insulin for Afrezza is manufactured by Amphastar. We must rely on our suppliers, including Amphastar, to comply with relevant regulatory and other legal requirements, including the production of insulin and FDKP in accordance with the FDA's cGMP for drug products, and the production of the Afrezza inhaler and related cartridges in accordance with QSRs. The supply of any of these materials may be limited or any of the manufacturers may not meet relevant regulatory requirements, and if we are unable to obtain any of these materials in sufficient amounts, in a timely manner and at reasonable prices, or if we encounter delays or difficulties in our relationships with manufacturers or suppliers, the production of Afrezza may be delayed. Likewise, if Amphastar ceases to manufacture or is otherwise unable to deliver insulin for Afrezza, we will need to locate an alternative source of supply and the production of Afrezza may be delayed. If any of our suppliers is unwilling or unable to meet its supply obligations and we are unable to secure an alternative supply source in a timely manner and on favorable terms, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be harmed and the market price of our common stock and other securities may decline.. If we fail as an effective manufacturing organization or fail to engage third-party manufacturers with this capability, we may be unable to support commercialization of this product.. We use our Danbury, Connecticut facility to formulate Afrezza inhalation powder, fill plastic cartridges with the powder, package the cartridges in blister packs, and place the blister packs into foil pouches. We utilize a contract packager to assemble the final kits of foil-pouched blisters containing cartridges along with inhalers and the package insert. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, especially in scaling up initial production. These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control and assurance and shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced. 18. federal, state and foreign regulations. If we engage a third-party manufacturer, we would need to transfer our technology to that third-party manufacturer and gain FDA approval, potentially causing delays in product delivery. In addition, our third-party manufacturer may not perform as agreed or may terminate its agreement with us.. Any of these factors could cause us to delay or suspend production, could entail higher costs and may result in our being unable to obtain sufficient quantities for the commercialization of Afrezza at the costs that we currently anticipate. Furthermore, if we or a third-party manufacturer fail to deliver the required commercial quantities of the product or any raw material on a timely basis, and at commercially reasonable prices, sustainable compliance and acceptable quality, and we were unable to promptly find one or more replacement manufacturers capable of production at a substantially equivalent cost, in substantially equivalent volume and quality on a timely basis, we would likely be unable to meet demand for Afrezza and we would lose potential revenues.. If Afrezza or any other product that we develop does not become widely accepted by physicians, patients, third-party payors and the healthcare community, we may be unable to generate significant revenue, if any.. Afrezza, and other products that we may develop in the future, may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, third-party payors and the healthcare community. Failure to achieve market acceptance would limit our ability to generate revenue and would adversely affect our results of operations.. The degree of market acceptance of Afrezza and other products that we may develop in the future depends on many factors, including the:. •  approved labeling claims;. •  effectiveness of efforts by us or any future marketing partner to educate physicians about the benefits and advantages of Afrezza or our other products and to provide adequate support for them, and the perceived advantages and disadvantages of competitive products;. •  willingness of the healthcare community and patients to adopt new technologies;. •  ability to manufacture the product in sufficient quantities with acceptable quality and cost;. •  perception of patients and the healthcare community, including third-party payors, regarding the safety, efficacy and benefits compared to competing products or therapies;. •  convenience and ease of administration relative to existing treatment methods;. •  coverage and pricing and reimbursement relative to other treatment therapeutics and methods; and. •  marketing and distribution support.. Because of these and other factors, Afrezza and any other product that we develop may not gain market acceptance, which would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If third-party payors do not cover Afrezza or any of our product candidates for which we receive regulatory approval, Afrezza or such product candidates might not be prescribed, used or purchased, which would adversely affect our revenues.. Our future revenues and ability to generate positive cash flow from operations may be affected by the continuing efforts of government and other third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare through various means. For example, in certain foreign markets the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In the United States, there have been several congressional inquiries and proposed federal and proposed and enacted state legislation designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to product pricing, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, and reform government program reimbursement methodologies for products. At the federal level, the costs of prescription pharmaceuticals in the United States has also been the subject of considerable discussion, and members of Congress and the Trump administration have stated that they will address such costs through new legislative and administrative measures. At the state level, legislatures are increasingly passing legislation and implementing regulations designed to control pharmaceutical and biological product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, discounts, restrictions on certain product access and marketing cost disclosure and transparency measures, and, in some cases, designed to encourage importation from other countries and bulk purchasing. We expect that there will continue to be a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar and/or additional governmental controls. We cannot be certain what legislative proposals will be adopted or what actions federal, state or private payors for healthcare goods and services may take in response to any drug pricing and reimbursement reform proposals or legislation. Such reforms may limit our ability to generate revenues from sales of Afrezza or other products that we may develop in the future and achieve profitability. Further, to the extent that such reforms have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and profitability of any future marketing partner for Afrezza, and companies that are prospective collaborators for our product candidates, our ability to commercialize Afrezza and our product candidates under development may be adversely affected.. 19. In the United States and elsewhere, sales of prescription pharmaceuticals still depend in large part on the availability of coverage and adequate reimbursement to the consumer from third-party payors, such as governmental and private insurance plans. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. The market for Afrezza and our product candidates for which we may receive regulatory approval will depend significantly on access to third-party payors' drug formularies, or lists of medications for which third-party payors provide coverage and reimbursement. The industry competition to be included in such formularies often leads to downward pricing pressures on pharmaceutical companies. Also, third-party payors may refuse to include a particular branded drug in their formularies or otherwise restrict patient access to a branded drug when a less costly generic equivalent or other alternative is available. In addition, because each third-party payor individually approves coverage and reimbursement levels, obtaining coverage and adequate reimbursement is a time-consuming and costly process. We may be required to provide scientific and clinical support for the use of any product to each third-party payor separately with no assurance that approval would be obtained. This process could delay the market acceptance of any product and could have a negative effect on our future revenues and operating results. Even if we succeed in bringing more products to market, we cannot be certain that any such products would be considered cost-effective or that coverage and adequate reimbursement to the consumer would be available. Patients will be unlikely to use our products unless coverage is provided and reimbursement is adequate to cover a significant portion of the cost of our products.. In addition, in many foreign countries, particularly the countries of the European Union, the pricing of prescription drugs is subject to government control. In some non-U.S. jurisdictions, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. The requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country. For example, the European Union provides options for its member states to restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. A member state may approve a specific price for the medicinal product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market. We may face competition for Afrezza or any of our other product candidates that receives marketing approval from lower-priced products in foreign countries that have placed price controls on pharmaceutical products. In addition, there may be importation of foreign products that compete with our own products, which could negatively impact our profitability.. If we or any future marketing partner is unable to obtain coverage of, and adequate payment levels for, Afrezza or any of our other product candidates that receive marketing approval from third-party payors, physicians may limit how much or under what circumstances they will prescribe or administer them and patients may decline to purchase them. This in turn could affect our and any future marketing partner's ability to successfully commercialize Afrezza and our ability to successfully commercialize any of our other product candidates that receives regulatory approval and impact our profitability, results of operations, financial condition, and prospects.. Healthcare legislation may make it more difficult to receive revenues.. In both the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals in recent years to change the healthcare system in ways that could impact our ability to sell our products profitably. For example, in March 2010, PPACA became law in the United States. PPACA substantially changes the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers and significantly affects the healthcare industry. Among the provisions of PPACA of importance to us are the following:. •  an annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports certain branded prescription drugs and biologic agents, apportioned among these entities according to their market share in certain government healthcare programs;. •  a 2.3% medical device excise tax on certain transactions, including many U.S. sales of medical devices, which currently includes and we expect will continue to include U.S. sales of certain drug-device combination products, which has been suspended for calendar years 2016 through 2019;. •  an increase in the statutory minimum rebates a manufacturer must pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program to 23.1% and 13% of the average manufacturer price for most branded and generic drugs, respectively;. •  a licensure framework for follow-on biological products;. •  expansion of healthcare fraud and abuse laws, including the False Claims Act and the Anti-Kickback Statute, new government investigative powers, and enhanced penalties for noncompliance;. •  a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50% (and 70% commencing January 1, 2019) point-of-sale discounts off negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturer's outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D;. •  extension of manufacturers' Medicaid rebate liability to covered drugs dispensed to individuals who are enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations;. •  expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs by, among other things, allowing states to offer Medicaid coverage to additional individuals with income at or below 133% of the Federal Poverty Level, thereby potentially increasing manufacturers' Medicaid rebate liability;. •  expansion of the entities eligible for discounts under the Public Health Service pharmaceutical pricing program;. 20. •  new requirements to report annually to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (\"CMS\") certain financial arrangements with physicians and teaching hospitals, as defined in PPACA and its implementing regulations, including reporting any \"payments or transfers of value\" made or distributed to prescribers, teaching hospitals and other healthcare providers and reporting any ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members and applicable group purchasing organizations during the preceding calendar year;. •  a new requirement to annually report drug samples that certain manufacturers and authorized distributors provide to physicians; and. •  a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research.. Some of the provisions of the PPACA have yet to be fully implemented, while certain provisions have been subject to judicial and congressional challenges, as well as efforts by the Trump administration to repeal or replace certain aspects of the PPACA. President Trump has signed two Executive Orders designed to delay the implementation of certain provisions of the PPACA or otherwise circumvent some of the requirements for health insurance mandated by the PPACA. Concurrently, Congress has considered legislation that would repeal or repeal and replace all or part of the PPACA. While Congress has not passed comprehensive repeal legislation, two bills affecting the implementation of certain taxes under the PPACA have been signed into law. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 includes a provision repealing, effective January 1, 2019, the tax-based shared responsibility payment imposed by the PPACA on certain individuals who fail to maintain qualifying health coverage for all or part of a year that is commonly referred to as the \"individual mandate\". Additionally, on January 22, 2018, President Trump signed a continuing resolution on appropriations for fiscal year 2018 that delayed the implementation of certain PPACA-mandated fees, including the so-called \"Cadillac\" tax on certain high cost employer-sponsored insurance plans, the annual fee imposed on certain health insurance providers based on market share, and the medical device excise tax on non-exempt medical devices. Further, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018, or the BBA, among other things, amends the PPACA, effective January 1, 2019, to close the coverage gap in most Medicare drug plans, and also increases in 2019 the percentage that a drug manufacturer must discount the cost of prescription drugs from 50 percent under current law to 70 percent. We continue to evaluate the potential effect of the possible repeal and replacement of the PPACA may have on our business.. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since PPACA was enacted. For example, on August 2, 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011, among other things, created measures for spending reductions by Congress. A Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, tasked with recommending a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, was unable to reach required goals, thereby triggering the legislation's automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, starting in 2013, and, following passage of the BBA, will stay in effect through 2027 unless additional Congressional action is taken. On January 2, 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 (the \"ATRA\"), which, among other things, reduced Medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. In addition, recently there has been heightened governmental scrutiny over the manner in which manufacturers set prices for their marketed products. Specifically, there have been several recent U.S. Congressional inquiries and proposed bills designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to drug pricing, reduce the cost of prescription drugs under Medicare, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, and reform government program reimbursement methodologies for drugs. These new laws and initiatives may result in additional reductions in Medicare and other healthcare funding, which could have a material adverse effect on our customers and accordingly, our financial operations.. We expect that PPACA, as well as other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, may result in more rigorous coverage criteria and in additional downward pressure on the price that we receive for any approved product, and could seriously harm our future revenues. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare or other government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private third-party payors. The implementation of cost containment measures or other healthcare reforms may prevent us from being able to generate revenue, attain profitability, or commercialize our products.. If we or any future marketing partner fails to comply with federal and state healthcare laws, including fraud and abuse and health information privacy and security laws, we could face substantial penalties and our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects could be adversely affected.. As a biopharmaceutical company, even though we do not and will not control referrals of healthcare services or bill directly to Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payors, certain federal and state healthcare laws and regulations, including those pertaining to fraud and abuse and patients' rights are and will be applicable to our business. For example, we could be subject to healthcare fraud and abuse and patient privacy regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. The laws that may affect our ability to operate include, among others:. •  The federal Anti-Kickback Statute (as amended by PPACA, which modified the intent requirement of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute so that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of the Statute or specific intent to violate it to have committed a violation), which constrains our business activities, including our marketing practices, educational programs, pricing policies, and relationships with healthcare providers or other entities by prohibiting, among other things, knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce, or in return for, either the referral of an. 21. individual or the purchase or recommendation of an item or service reimbursable under a federal healthcare program, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs.. •  Federal civil and criminal false claims laws, including without limitation the civil False Claims Act, and civil monetary penalties laws, which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other federal healthcare programs that are false or fraudulent, and knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false record or statement material to a false or fraudulent claim to avoid, decrease or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government, and under PPACA, the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the federal false claims laws.. •  HIPAA, which created new federal criminal statutes that prohibit, among other things, knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or falsifying, concealing, or covering up a material fact in connection with the delivery of or payment for health care benefits.. •  HIPAA, as amended by HITECH, and their respective implementing regulations, which imposes certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information on entities subject to the law, such as healthcare providers, health plans, and healthcare clearinghouses and their respective business associates that perform services for them that involve the creation, use, maintenance or disclosure of, individually identifiable health information. In addition, the European Union, or EU, has established its own data security and privacy legal framework, including but not limited to Directive 95/46/EC, or the Data Protection Directive. The Data Protection Directive will be replaced starting in May 2018 with the recently adopted European General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, which contains new provisions specifically directed at the processing of health information, higher sanctions and extra-territoriality measures intended to bring non-EU companies under the regulation. We anticipate that over time we may expand our business operations to include additional operations in the EU, including potentially conducting preclinical and clinical trials. With such expansion, we would be subject to increased governmental regulation in the EU countries in which we might operate, including the GDPR.. •  The federal physician sunshine requirements under PPACA, which requires certain manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics, and medical supplies to report annually to the CMS information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians, other healthcare providers, and teaching hospitals, and ownership and investment interests held by physicians and other healthcare providers and their immediate family members.. •  State and foreign law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers, and state and foreign laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts; state laws that require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the applicable compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government that otherwise restricts certain payments that may be made to healthcare providers and entities; and state laws that require drug manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfer of value to physicians and other healthcare providers and entities.. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of available statutory and regulatory exceptions, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. To the extent that Afrezza or any of our product candidates that receives marketing approval is ultimately sold in a foreign country, we may be subject to similar foreign laws and regulations. If we or our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, individual imprisonment, disgorgement, exclusion of products from reimbursement under U.S. federal or state healthcare programs, additional reporting requirements and/or oversight if we become subject to a corporate integrity agreement or similar agreement to resolve allegations of non-compliance with these laws, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations could materially adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Although compliance programs can mitigate the risk of investigation and prosecution for violations of these laws, the risks cannot be entirely eliminated. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. Moreover, achieving and sustaining compliance with applicable federal and state privacy, security and fraud laws may prove costly.. If we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program or other governmental pricing programs in the United States, we could be subject to additional reimbursement requirements, fines, sanctions and exposure under other laws which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We participate in the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, as administered by CMS, and other federal and state government pricing programs in the United States, and we may participate in additional government pricing programs in the future. These programs generally require us to pay rebates or otherwise provide discounts to government payors in connection with drugs that are dispensed to beneficiaries/recipients of these programs. In some cases, such as with the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, the rebates are based on pricing that we report on a monthly and quarterly basis to the government agencies that administer the programs. Pricing requirements and rebate/discount calculations are complex, vary. 22. among products and programs, and are often subject to interpretation by governmental or regulatory agencies and the courts. The requirements of these programs, including, by way of example, their respective terms and scope, change frequently. Responding to current and future changes may increase our costs, and the complexity of compliance will be time consuming. Invoicing for rebates is provided in arrears, and there is frequently a time lag of up to several months between the sales to which rebate notices relate and our receipt of those notices, which further complicates our ability to accurately estimate and accrue for rebates related to the Medicaid program as implemented by individual states. Thus, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify all factors that may cause our discount and rebate payment obligations to vary from period to period, and our actual results may differ significantly from our estimated allowances for discounts and rebates. Changes in estimates and assumptions may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services and other Congressional, enforcement and administrative bodies have recently increased their focus on pricing requirements for products, including, but not limited to the methodologies used by manufacturers to calculate average manufacturer price (\"AMP\") and best price (\"BP\") for compliance with reporting requirements under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program. We are liable for errors associated with our submission of pricing data and for any overcharging of government payors. For example, failure to submit monthly/quarterly AMP and BP data on a timely basis could result in a civil monetary penalty of $18,107 per day for each day the submission is late beyond the due date. Failure to make necessary disclosures and/or to identify overpayments could result in allegations against us under the False Claims Act and other laws and regulations. Any required refunds to the U.S. government or responding to a government investigation or enforcement action would be expensive and time consuming and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, in the event that the CMS were to terminate our rebate agreement, no federal payments would be available under Medicaid or Medicare for our covered outpatient drugs.. If product liability claims are brought against us, we may incur significant liabilities and suffer damage to our reputation.. The testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of Afrezza and any clinical testing of our product candidates expose us to potential product liability claims. A product liability claim may result in substantial judgments as well as consume significant financial and management resources and result in adverse publicity, decreased demand for a product, injury to our reputation, withdrawal of clinical studies volunteers and loss of revenues. We currently carry worldwide product liability insurance in the amount of $10.0 million. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise, and because insurance coverage in our industry can be very expensive and difficult to obtain, we cannot assure you that we will seek to obtain, or be able to obtain if desired, sufficient additional coverage. If losses from such claims exceed our liability insurance coverage, we may incur substantial liabilities that we may not have the resources to pay. If we are required to pay a product liability claim our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed and the market price of our common stock and other securities may decline.. If we lose any key employees or scientific advisors, our operations and our ability to execute our business strategy could be materially harmed.. We face intense competition for qualified employees among companies in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries. Our success depends upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees. We may be unable to attract and retain these individuals on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, in order to commercialize Afrezza successfully, we may be required to expand our work force, particularly in the areas of manufacturing and sales and marketing. These activities will require the addition of new personnel, including management, and the development of additional expertise by existing personnel, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain any such new personnel on acceptable terms, if at all.. The loss of the services of any principal member of our management and scientific staff could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our scientific and business objectives. All of our employees are \"at will\" and we currently do not have employment agreements with any of the principal members of our management or scientific staff, and we do not have key person life insurance to cover the loss of any of these individuals. Replacing key employees may be difficult and time-consuming because of the limited number of individuals in our industry with the skills and experience required to develop, gain regulatory approval of and commercialize products successfully.. We have relationships with scientific advisors at academic and other institutions to conduct research or assist us in formulating our research, development or clinical strategy. These scientific advisors are not our employees and may have commitments to, and other obligations with, other entities that may limit their availability to us. We have limited control over the activities of these scientific advisors and can generally expect these individuals to devote only limited time to our activities. Failure of any of these persons to devote sufficient time and resources to our programs could harm our business. In addition, these advisors are not prohibited from, and may have arrangements with, other companies to assist those companies in developing technologies that may compete with Afrezza or our product candidates.. If our internal controls over financial reporting are not considered effective, our business, financial condition and market price of our common stock and other securities could be adversely affected.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in our annual report on Form 10-K for that fiscal year. Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, and report on, our internal controls over financial reporting.. 23. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal controls over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud involving a company have been, or will be, detected. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. A material weakness in our internal controls has been identified in the past, and we cannot assure you that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify a material weakness in our internal controls in the future. A material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting would require management and our independent registered public accounting firm to evaluate our internal controls as ineffective. If our internal controls over financial reporting are not considered effective, we may experience a loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and the market price of our common stock and other securities.. Changes or modifications in financial accounting standards, including those related to revenue recognition, may harm our results of operations.. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\"), either alone or jointly with other organizations, promulgates new accounting principles that could have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or reported cash flows. In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). The standard requires a company to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services when transferred to customers in the amount that reflects the consideration it expects to be entitled to receive in exchange for those goods or services. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-14, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Deferral of the Effective Date, which delayed the effective date of the new standard from January 1, 2017 to January 1, 2018. The FASB also agreed to allow entities to choose to adopt the standard as of the original effective date. In March 2016, the FASB issued additional ASUs which clarified certain aspects of the new guidance. We adopted the new standard for the year beginning January 1, 2018. We had the option to either apply the new standard retrospectively for all prior reporting periods presented (full retrospective) or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the new standard recognized at the date of initial application (modified retrospective). We have elected to apply the new standard using the modified retrospective approach with the cumulative effect of initial application recognized as of January 1, 2018. Based on the expected impact of adopting the new standard, we expect such cumulative effect adjustment to be $1.7 million decrease to the opening balance of accumulated deficit. Any difficulties in implementing this standard, or in adopting or implementing any other new accounting standard, and to update or modify our internal controls as needed on a timely basis, could result in our failure to meet our financial reporting obligations, which could result in regulatory discipline and harm investors' confidence in us. Finally, if we were to change our critical accounting estimates, including those related to the recognition of collaboration revenue and other revenue sources, our operating results could be significantly affected.. Our ability to use net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be subject to limitations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had federal and state net operating loss carryforwards of $2.0 billion and $2.2 billion. The federal and state net operating loss carryforwards have begun to expire in the current year. These net operating loss carryforwards could expire unused and be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities. Under the newly enacted federal income tax law, federal net operating losses incurred in 2018 and in future years may be carried forward indefinitely, but the deductibility of such federal net operating losses is limited. It is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to the newly enacted federal tax law. In addition, under Section 382 of the Code and corresponding provisions of state law, if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change,\" which is generally defined as a greater than 50% change, by value, in its equity ownership over a three-year period, the corporation's ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes to offset its post-change income or taxes may be limited. As a result of our initial public offering, an ownership change within the meaning of Section 382 occurred in August 2004. As a result, federal net operating loss and credit carry forwards of approximately $216.0 million are subject to an annual use limitation of approximately $13.0 million. The annual limitation is cumulative and therefore, if not fully utilized in a year can be utilized in future years in addition to the Section 382 limitation for those years. The federal net operating losses generated subsequent to our initial public offering in August 2004 are currently not subject to any such limitation as there have been no ownership changes since August 2004 within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code. We may however experience ownership changes in the future as a result of subsequent shifts in our stock ownership, some of which may be outside of our control. If an ownership change occurs and our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards is materially limited, it would harm our future operating results by effectively increasing our future tax obligations.. We may undertake internal restructuring activities in the future that could result in disruptions to our business or otherwise materially harm our results of operations or financial condition.. From time to time we may undertake internal restructuring activities as we continue to evaluate and attempt to optimize our cost and operating structure in light of developments in our business strategy and long-term operating plans. These activities may result in write-offs or. 24. other restructuring charges. There can be no assurance that any restructuring activities that we undertake will achieve the cost savings, operating efficiencies or other benefits that we may initially expect. Restructuring activities may also result in a loss of continuity, accumulated knowledge and inefficiency during transitional periods and thereafter. In addition, internal restructurings can require a significant amount of time and focus from management and other employees, which may divert attention from commercial operations. If we undertake any internal restructuring activities and fail to achieve some or all of the expected benefits therefrom, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. We and certain of our executive officers and directors have been named as defendants in ongoing securities lawsuits that could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention.. Following the public announcement of Sanofi's election to terminate the Sanofi License Agreement and the subsequent decline in our stock price, two motions were submitted to the District Court at Tel Aviv, Economic Department for the certification of a class action against MannKind and certain of our officers and directors. The complaints alleged that MannKind and certain of our officers and directors violated Israeli and U.S. securities laws by making materially false and misleading statements regarding the prospects for Afrezza, thereby artificially inflating the price of MannKind's common stock. The plaintiffs are seeking monetary damages. In November 2016, the court in Israel dismissed one of the actions without prejudice. In the remaining action, the district court ruled in October 2017 that U.S. law will apply to this case. The plaintiff has appealed this ruling. We intend to vigorously defend against these claims. If we are not successful in our defense, we could be forced to make significant payments to or other settlements with our stockholders and their lawyers, and such payments or settlement arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Even if such claims are not successful, the litigation could result in substantial costs and significant adverse impact on our reputation and divert management's attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our operations might be interrupted by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event.. We expect that at least for the foreseeable future, our manufacturing facility in Danbury, Connecticut will be the sole location for the manufacturing of Afrezza. This facility and the manufacturing equipment we use would be costly to replace and could require substantial lead time to repair or replace. We depend on our facilities and on collaborators, contractors and vendors for the continued operation of our business, some of whom are located in other countries. Natural disasters or other catastrophic events, including interruptions in the supply of natural resources, political and governmental changes, severe weather conditions, wildfires and other fires, explosions, actions of animal rights activists, terrorist attacks, volcanic eruptions, earthquakes and wars could disrupt our operations or those of our collaborators, contractors and vendors. We might suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our and our contractors' insurance policies or for which we or our contractors do not have coverage. For example, we are not insured against a terrorist attack. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event could have a significant negative impact on our operations and financial results. Moreover, any such event could delay our research and development programs or cause interruptions in our commercialization of Afrezza.. We deal with hazardous materials and must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business.. Our research and development and commercialization of Afrezza work involves the controlled storage and use of hazardous materials, including chemical and biological materials. In addition, our manufacturing operations involve the use of a chemical that may form an explosive mixture under certain conditions. Our operations also produce hazardous waste products. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations (i) governing how we use, manufacture, store, handle and dispose of these materials (ii) imposing liability for costs of cleaning up, and damages to natural resources from past spills, waste disposals on and off-site, or other releases of hazardous materials or regulated substances, and (iii) regulating workplace safety. Moreover, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from hazardous materials cannot be completely eliminated, and in the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that may result, and any liability could fall outside the coverage or exceed the limits of our insurance. Currently, our general liability policy provides coverage up to $1.0 million per occurrence and $2.0 million in the aggregate and is supplemented by an umbrella policy that provides a further $20.0 million of coverage; however, our insurance policy excludes pollution liability coverage and we do not carry a separate hazardous materials policy. In addition, we could be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future. Finally, current or future environmental laws and regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts or have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. When we purchased the facilities located in Danbury, Connecticut in 2001, a soil and groundwater investigation and remediation was being conducted by a former site operator (the responsible party) under the oversight of the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection, which is not completed. The responsible party will make all filings necessary to achieve closure for the environmental remediation conducted at the site, and has agreed to indemnify us for any future costs and expenses we may incur that are directly related to the final closure. If we are unable to collect these future costs and expenses, if any, from the responsible party, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed.. We are increasingly dependent on information technology systems, infrastructure and data security.. We are increasingly dependent upon information technology systems, infrastructure and data security. Our business requires manipulating, analyzing and storing large amounts of data. In addition, we rely on an enterprise software system to operate and manage our business. Our. 25. business therefore depends on the continuous, effective, reliable and secure operation of our computer hardware, software, networks, Internet servers and related infrastructure. The multitude and complexity of our computer systems and the potential value of our data make them inherently vulnerable to service interruption or destruction, malicious intrusion and random attack. Likewise, data privacy or security breaches by employees or others may pose a risk that sensitive data including intellectual property, trade secrets or personal information belonging to us or our customers or other business partners may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. Our systems are also potentially subject to cyber-attacks, which can be highly sophisticated and may be difficult to detect. Such attacks are often carried out by motivated, well-resourced, skilled and persistent actors including nation states, organized crime groups and \"hacktivists.\" Cyber-attacks could include the deployment of harmful malware and key loggers, a denial-of-service attack, a malicious website, the use of social engineering and other means to affect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our information technology systems, infrastructure and data. Our key business partners face similar risks and any security breach of their systems could adversely affect our security status. While we continue to invest in the protection of our critical or sensitive data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent or detect service interruptions or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business and operations and/or result in the loss of critical or sensitive information, which could result in financial, legal, business or reputational harm to us.. RISKS RELATED TO GOVERNMENT REGULATION. Our product candidates must undergo costly and time-consuming rigorous nonclinical and clinical testing and we must obtain regulatory approval prior to the sale and marketing of any product in each jurisdiction. The results of this testing or issues that develop in the review and approval by a regulatory agency may subject us to unanticipated delays or prevent us from marketing any products.. Our research and development activities, as well as the manufacturing and marketing of Afrezza and our product candidates, are subject to regulation, including regulation for safety, efficacy and quality, by the FDA in the United States and comparable authorities in other countries. FDA regulations and the regulations of comparable foreign regulatory authorities are wide-ranging and govern, among other things:. •  product design, development, manufacture and testing;. •  product labeling;. •  product storage and shipping;. •  pre-market clearance or approval;. •  advertising and promotion; and. •  product sales and distribution.. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical studies and manufacturing and marketing of Afrezza and our product candidates outside the United States vary widely from country to country. Foreign approvals may take longer to obtain than FDA approvals and can require, among other things, additional testing and different clinical study designs. Foreign regulatory approval processes include essentially all of the risks associated with the FDA approval processes. Some of those agencies also must approve prices of the products. Approval of a product by the FDA does not ensure approval of the same product by the health authorities of other countries. In addition, changes in regulatory policy in the United States or in foreign countries for product approval during the period of product development and regulatory agency review of each submitted new application may cause delays or rejections.. Clinical testing can be costly and take many years, and the outcome is uncertain and susceptible to varying interpretations. We cannot be certain if or when regulatory agencies might request additional studies, under what conditions such studies might be requested, or what the size or length of any such studies might be. The clinical studies of our product candidates may not be completed on schedule, regulatory agencies may order us to stop or modify our research, or these agencies may not ultimately approve any of our product candidates for commercial sale. The data collected from our clinical studies may not be sufficient to support regulatory approval of our product candidates. Even if we believe the data collected from our clinical studies are sufficient, regulatory agencies have substantial discretion in the approval process and may disagree with our interpretation of the data. Our failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of any of our product candidates would delay or prevent regulatory approval of our product candidates, which could prevent us from achieving profitability.. Questions that have been raised about the safety of marketed drugs generally, including pertaining to the lack of adequate labeling, may result in increased cautiousness by regulatory agencies in reviewing new drugs based on safety, efficacy, or other regulatory considerations and may result in significant delays in obtaining regulatory approvals. Such regulatory considerations may also result in the imposition of more restrictive drug labeling or marketing requirements as conditions of approval, which may significantly affect the marketability of our drug products.. 26. The FDA and other regulatory authorities impose significant restrictions on approved products through regulations on advertising, promotional and distribution activities. This oversight encompasses, but is not limited to, direct-to-consumer advertising, healthcare provider-directed advertising and promotion, sales representative communications to healthcare professionals, promotional programming and promotional activities involving the Internet. Regulatory authorities may also review industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities that make representations regarding product safety or efficacy in a promotional context. The FDA and other regulatory authorities may take enforcement action against a company for promoting unapproved uses of a product or for other violations of its advertising and labeling laws and regulations. Enforcement action may include product seizures, injunctions, civil or criminal penalties or regulatory letters, which may require corrective advertising or other corrective communications to healthcare professionals. Failure to comply with such regulations also can result in adverse publicity or increased scrutiny of company activities by the U.S. Congress or other legislators. Certain states have also adopted regulations and reporting requirements surrounding the promotion of pharmaceuticals. Failure to comply with state requirements may affect our ability to promote or sell our products in certain states.. If we do not comply with regulatory requirements at any stage, whether before or after marketing approval is obtained, we may be fined or forced to remove a product from the market, subject to criminal prosecution, or experience other adverse consequences, including restrictions or delays in obtaining regulatory marketing approval.. Even if we comply with regulatory requirements, we may not be able to obtain the labeling claims necessary or desirable for product promotion. We may also be required to undertake post-marketing studies. For example, as part of the approval of Afrezza, the FDA required that we complete a clinical trial to evaluate the potential risk of pulmonary malignancy with Afrezza. To date, we have not enrolled any subjects in this trial.. In addition, if we or other parties identify adverse effects after any of our products are on the market, or if manufacturing problems occur, regulatory approval may be withdrawn and a reformulation of our products, additional clinical studies, changes in labeling of, or indications of use for, our products and/or additional marketing applications may be required. If we encounter any of the foregoing problems, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be harmed and the market price of our common stock and other securities may decline.. We are subject to stringent, ongoing government regulation.. The manufacture, marketing and sale of Afrezza are subject to stringent and ongoing government regulation. The FDA may also withdraw product approvals if problems concerning the safety or efficacy of a product appear following approval. We cannot be sure that FDA and United States Congressional initiatives or actions by foreign regulatory bodies pertaining to ensuring the safety of marketed drugs or other developments pertaining to the pharmaceutical industry will not adversely affect our operations. For example, stability failure of Afrezza could lead to product recall or other sanctions.. We also are required to register our establishments and list our products with the FDA and certain state agencies. We and any third-party manufacturers or suppliers must continually adhere to federal regulations setting forth requirements, known as cGMP (for drugs) and QSR (for medical devices), and their foreign equivalents, which are enforced by the FDA and other national regulatory bodies through their facilities inspection programs. In complying with cGMP and foreign regulatory requirements, we and any of our potential third-party manufacturers or suppliers will be obligated to expend time, money and effort in production, record-keeping and quality control to ensure that our products meet applicable specifications and other requirements. QSR requirements also impose extensive testing, control and documentation requirements. State regulatory agencies and the regulatory agencies of other countries have similar requirements. In addition, we will be required to comply with regulatory requirements of the FDA, state regulatory agencies and the regulatory agencies of other countries concerning the reporting of adverse events and device malfunctions, corrections and removals (e.g., recalls), promotion and advertising and general prohibitions against the manufacture and distribution of adulterated and misbranded devices. Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements could result in civil fines, product seizures, injunctions and/or criminal prosecution of responsible individuals and us. Any such actions would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities subject Afrezza and any approved drug product to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements concerning the manufacturing processes, labeling, packaging, distribution, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion, import, export and recordkeeping. These requirements include submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, registration, as well as continued compliance with cGMPs and GCP requirements for any clinical trials that we conduct post-approval. Later discovery of previously unknown problems, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or with our third-party manufacturers or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in, among other things:. •  restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of our product candidates, withdrawal of the product from the market, or voluntary or mandatory product recalls;. •  fines, warning letters or holds on clinical trials;. •  refusal by the FDA to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us or suspension or revocation of approvals;. 27. •  product seizure or detention, or refusal to permit the import or export of our product candidates; and. •  injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties.. The FDA's and other regulatory authorities' policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent, limit or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing requirements or the adoption of new requirements or policies, or if we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may lose any marketing approval that we may have obtained and we may not achieve or sustain profitability.. Our suppliers are subject to FDA inspection.. We depend on suppliers for insulin and other materials that comprise Afrezza, including our Afrezza inhaler and cartridges. Each supplier must comply with relevant regulatory requirements and is subject to inspection by the FDA. Although we conduct our own inspections and review and/or approve investigations of each supplier, there can be no assurance that the FDA, upon inspection, would find that the supplier substantially complies with the QSR or cGMP requirements, where applicable. If we or any potential third-party manufacturer or supplier fails to comply with these requirements or comparable requirements in foreign countries, regulatory authorities may subject us to regulatory action, including criminal prosecutions, fines and suspension of the manufacture of our products.. If we are required to find a new or additional supplier of insulin, we will be required to evaluate the new supplier's ability to provide insulin that meets regulatory requirements, including cGMP requirements as well as our specifications and quality requirements, which would require significant time and expense and could delay the manufacturing and commercialization of Afrezza.. Reports of side effects or safety concerns in related technology fields or in other companies' clinical studies could delay or prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval for our product candidates or negatively impact public perception of Afrezza or any other products we may develop.. If other pharmaceutical companies announce that they observed frequent adverse events in their studies involving insulin therapies, we may be subject to class warnings in the label for Afrezza. In addition, the public perception of Afrezza might be adversely affected, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and cause the market price of our common stock and other securities to decline, even if the concern relates to another company's products or product candidates.. There are also a number of clinical studies being conducted by other pharmaceutical companies involving compounds similar to, or potentially competitive with, our product candidates. Adverse results reported by these other companies in their clinical studies could delay or prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval or negatively impact public perception of our product candidates, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and cause the market price of our common stock and other securities to decline.. RISKS RELATED TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights, we may not be able to compete effectively, or operate profitably.. Our commercial success depends, in large part, on our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property protection for our technology. Our ability to do so will depend on, among other things, complex legal and factual questions, and it should be noted that the standards regarding intellectual property rights in our fields are still evolving. We attempt to protect our proprietary technology through a combination of patents, trade secrets and confidentiality agreements. We own a number of domestic and international patents, have a number of domestic and international patent applications pending and have licenses to additional patents. We cannot assure you that our patents and licenses will successfully preclude others from using our technologies, and we could incur substantial costs in seeking enforcement of our proprietary rights against infringement. Even if issued, the patents may not give us an advantage over competitors with alternative technologies.. For example, the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before a patent is issued, either in the United States or abroad. Statutory differences in patentable subject matter may limit the protection we can obtain on some of our inventions outside of the United States. For example, methods of treating humans are not patentable in many countries outside of the United States. These and other issues may limit the patent protection we are able to secure internationally. Consequently, we do not know whether any of our pending or future patent applications will result in the issuance of patents or, to the extent patents have been issued or will be issued, whether these patents will be subjected to further proceedings limiting their scope, will provide significant proprietary protection or competitive advantage, or will be circumvented or invalidated.. In addition, in certain countries, including the United States, applications are generally published 18 months after the application's priority date. In any event, because publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often trails behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first inventor of the subject matter covered by our pending patent applications or that we were the first to file patent applications on such inventions. Assuming the other requirements for patentability are met, in the United States prior to March 15, 2013, the first to make the claimed invention is entitled to the patent, while outside the United States, the first to file a patent application is entitled to the patent. After March 15, 2013, under the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act (\"AIA\"), or the Leahy-Smith Act, the United States moved to a first inventor to file system. In general, the Leahy-Smith Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. 28. Moreover, the term of a patent is limited and, as a result, the patents protecting our products expire at various dates. For example, some patents providing protection for Afrezza inhalation powder have terms extending into 2020, 2026, 2028, 2029, and 2030. In addition, patents providing protection for our inhaler and cartridges have terms extending into 2023, 2031 and 2032, and we have method of treatment claims that extend into 2026, 2029, 2030 and 2031. As and when these different patents expire, Afrezza could become subject to increased competition. As a consequence, we may not be able to recover our development costs.. An issued patent is presumed valid unless it is declared otherwise by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability and it is uncertain how much protection, if any, will be afforded by our patents. A third party may challenge the validity or enforceability of a patent after its issuance by various proceedings such as oppositions in foreign jurisdictions, or post grant proceedings, including, oppositions, re-examinations or other review in the United States. In some instances we may seek re-examination or reissuance of our own patents. If we attempt to enforce our patents, they may be challenged in court where they could be held invalid, unenforceable, or have their breadth narrowed to an extent that would destroy their value.. We also rely on unpatented technology, trade secrets, know-how and confidentiality agreements. We require our officers, employees, consultants and advisors to execute proprietary information and invention and assignment agreements upon commencement of their relationships with us. These agreements provide that all inventions developed by the individual on behalf of us must be assigned to us and that the individual will cooperate with us in connection with securing patent protection on the invention if we wish to pursue such protection. We also execute confidentiality agreements with outside collaborators. There can be no assurance, however, that our inventions and assignment agreements and our confidentiality agreements will provide meaningful protection for our inventions, trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. If any trade secret, know-how or other technology not protected by a patent were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. If we become involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or the patents of our collaborators or licensors, we would be required to devote substantial time and resources to prosecute or defend such proceedings.. Competitors may infringe our patents or the patents of our collaborators or licensors. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover its technology. A court may also decide to award us a royalty from an infringing party instead of issuing an injunction against the infringing activity. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing.. Interference proceedings brought by the USPTO, may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our pre-AIA patent applications or those of our collaborators or licensors. Additionally, the Leahy-Smith Act has greatly expanded the options for post-grant review of patents that can be brought by third parties. In particular Inter Partes Review (\"IPR\"), available against any issued United States patent (pre-and post-AIA), has resulted in a higher rate of claim invalidation, due in part to the much reduced opportunity to repair claims by amendment as compared to re-examination, as well as the lower standard of proof used at the USPTO as compared to the federal courts. With the passage of time an increasing number of patents related to successful pharmaceutical products are being subjected to IPR. Moreover, the filing of IPR petitions has been used by short-sellers as a tool to help drive down stock prices. We may not prevail in any litigation, post-grant review, or interference proceedings in which we are involved and, even if we are successful, these proceedings may result in substantial costs and be a distraction to our management. Further, we may not be able, alone or with our collaborators and licensors, to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as in the United States.. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, the market price of our common stock and other securities may decline.. If our technologies conflict with the proprietary rights of others, we may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings and we could face substantial monetary damages and be precluded from commercializing our products, which would materially harm our business and financial condition.. Biotechnology patents are numerous and may, at times, conflict with one another. As a result, it is not always clear to industry participants, including us, which patents cover the multitude of biotechnology product types. Ultimately, the courts must determine the scope of coverage afforded by a patent and the courts do not always arrive at uniform conclusions.. A patent owner may claim that we are making, using, selling or offering for sale an invention covered by the owner's patents and may go to court to stop us from engaging in such activities. Such litigation is not uncommon in our industry.. 29. Patent lawsuits can be expensive and would consume time and other resources. There is a risk that a court would decide that we are infringing a third party's patents and would order us to stop the activities covered by the patents, including the commercialization of our products. In addition, there is a risk that we would have to pay the other party damages for having violated the other party's patents (which damages may be increased, as well as attorneys' fees ordered paid, if infringement is found to be willful), or that we will be required to obtain a license from the other party in order to continue to commercialize the affected products, or to design our products in a manner that does not infringe a valid patent. We may not prevail in any legal action, and a required license under the patent may not be available on acceptable terms or at all, requiring cessation of activities that were found to infringe a valid patent. We also may not be able to develop a non-infringing product design on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.. Moreover, certain components of Afrezza may be manufactured outside the United States and imported into the United States. As such, third parties could file complaints under 19 U.S.C. Section 337(a)(1)(B) (a \"337 action\") with the International Trade Commission (the \"ITC\"). A 337 action can be expensive and would consume time and other resources. There is a risk that the ITC would decide that we are infringing a third party's patents and either enjoin us from importing the infringing products or parts thereof into the United States or set a bond in an amount that the ITC considers would offset our competitive advantage from the continued importation during the statutory review period. The bond could be up to 100% of the value of the patented products. We may not prevail in any legal action, and a required license under the patent may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, resulting in a permanent injunction preventing any further importation of the infringing products or parts thereof into the United States. We also may not be able to develop a non-infringing product design on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.. Although we own a number of domestic and foreign patents and patent applications relating to Afrezza, we have identified certain third-party patents having claims that may trigger an allegation of infringement in connection with the commercial manufacture and sale of Afrezza. We do not believe that Afrezza infringes on any patents. However, if a court were to determine that Afrezza was infringing any of these patent rights, we would have to establish with the court that these patents are invalid or unenforceable in order to avoid legal liability for infringement of these patents. However, proving patent invalidity or unenforceability can be difficult because issued patents are presumed valid. Therefore, in the event that we are unable to prevail in a non-infringement or invalidity action we will have to either acquire the third-party patents outright or seek a royalty-bearing license. Royalty-bearing licenses effectively increase production costs and therefore may materially affect product profitability. Furthermore, should the patent holder refuse to either assign or license us the infringed patents, it may be necessary to cease manufacturing the product entirely and/or design around the patents, if possible. In either event, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed and our profitability could be materially and adversely impacted.. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, the market price of our common stock and other securities may decline.. In addition, patent litigation may divert the attention of key personnel and we may not have sufficient resources to bring these actions to a successful conclusion. At the same time, some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. An adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products or result in substantial monetary damages, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cause the market price of our common stock and other securities to decline.. We may not obtain trademark registrations for our potential trade names.. We have not selected trade names for some of our product candidates in our pipeline; therefore, we have not filed trademark registrations for such potential trade names for our product candidates, nor can we assure that we will be granted registration of any potential trade names for which we do file. No assurance can be given that any of our trademarks will be registered in the United States or elsewhere, or once registered that, prior to our being able to enter a particular market, they will not be cancelled for non-use. Nor can we give assurances, that the use of any of our trademarks will confer a competitive advantage in the marketplace.. Furthermore, even if we are successful in our trademark registrations, the FDA has its own process for drug nomenclature and its own views concerning appropriate proprietary names. It also has the power, even after granting market approval, to request a company to reconsider the name for a product because of evidence of confusion in the marketplace. We cannot assure you that the FDA or any other regulatory authority will approve of any of our trademarks or will not request reconsideration of one of our trademarks at some time in the future.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness. We may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness or we may experience a financial failure.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations will depend on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to the commercial success of Afrezza, the extent to which we are able to successfully develop and commercialize our Technosphere drug delivery platform and any other product candidates that we develop, prevailing economic and competitive conditions, and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating. 30. activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would be successful and permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our future debt agreements. In the absence of sufficient operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or obtain sufficient proceeds from those dispositions to meet our debt service and other obligations when due.. Future sales of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, may depress our stock price and adversely impact the market price of our common stock and other securities.. If our existing stockholders or their distributees sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. The perception in the public market that our existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock could also depress the market price of our common stock and the market price of our other securities. Any such sales of our common stock in the public market may affect the price of our common stock or the market price of our other securities.. In the future, we may sell additional shares of our common stock to raise capital. In addition, a substantial number of shares of our common stock is reserved for: issuance upon the exercise of stock options and the vesting of restricted stock unit awards; the purchase of shares of common stock under our employee stock purchase program; and the issuance of shares upon exchange or conversion of the 2021 notes or any other convertible debt we may issue. We cannot predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that they may have on the market price for our common stock. The issuance or sale of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such issuances or sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and other securities.. Our stock price is volatile and may affect the market price of our common stock and other securities.. Between January 1, 2014 and December 31, 2017, our closing stock price as reported on The NASDAQ Global Market has ranged from $0.71 to $54.80, adjusted for the reverse stock split that occurred during this period. The trading price of our common stock is likely to continue to be volatile. The stock market, particularly in recent years, has experienced significant volatility particularly with respect to pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks, and this trend may continue.. The volatility of pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks often does not relate to the operating performance of the companies represented by the stock. Our business and the market price of our common stock may be influenced by a large variety of factors, including:. •  our ability to obtain marketing approval for Afrezza outside of the United States and to find collaboration partners for the commercialization of Afrezza in foreign jurisdictions;. •  our future estimates of Afrezza sales, prescriptions or other operating metrics;. •  our ability to successful commercialize our Technosphere drug delivery platform;. •  the progress of preclinical and clinical studies of our product candidates and of post-approval studies of Afrezza required by the FDA;. •  the results of preclinical and clinical studies of our product candidates;. •  general economic, political or stock market conditions, especially for emerging growth and pharmaceutical market sectors;. •  legislative developments;. •  announcements by us, our collaborators, or our competitors concerning clinical study results, acquisitions, strategic alliances, technological innovations, newly approved commercial products, product discontinuations, or other developments;. •  the availability of critical materials used in developing and manufacturing Afrezza or other product candidates;. •  developments or disputes concerning our relationship with any of our current or future collaborators or third party manufacturers;. •  developments or disputes concerning our patents or proprietary rights;. •  the expense and time associated with, and the extent of our ultimate success in, securing regulatory approvals;. •  announcements by us concerning our financial condition or operating performance;. •  changes in securities analysts' estimates of our financial condition or operating performance;. •  sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders;. •  our ability, or the perception of investors of our ability, to continue to meet all applicable requirements for continued listing of our common stock on The NASDAQ Stock Market, and the possible delisting of our common stock if we are unable to do so;. 31. •  the status of any legal proceedings or regulatory matters against or involving us or any of our executive officers and directors; and. •  discussion of Afrezza, our other product candidates, competitors' products, or our stock price by the financial and scientific press, the healthcare community and online investor communities such as chat rooms. In particular, it may be difficult to verify statements about us and our investigational products that appear on interactive websites that permit users to generate content anonymously or under a pseudonym and statements attributed to company officials may, in fact, have originated elsewhere.. Any of these risks, as well as other factors, could cause the market value of our common stock and other securities to decline.. If we fail to continue to meet all applicable listing requirements, our common stock may be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market, which could have an adverse impact on the liquidity and market price of our common stock.. Our common stock is currently listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, which has qualitative and quantitative listing criteria. If we are unable to meet any of the NASDAQ listing requirements in the future, such as the corporate governance requirements, the minimum closing bid price requirement, or the minimum market value of listed securities requirement, NASDAQ could determine to delist our common stock. A delisting of our common stock could adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock, decrease the market price of our common stock, adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations and result in the loss of confidence in our company. In the past, we have received a notice of non-compliance from the Listing Qualifications Department of the NASDAQ Stock Market with respect to the $1.00 minimum closing bid price requirement.  Although we regained compliance with the minimum closing bid price requirement after effecting a reserve stock split there can be no assurance that we will be able to meet the minimum closing bid price requirement or other listing requirements in the future.. If other biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies or the securities markets in general encounter problems, the market price of our common stock and other securities could be adversely affected.. Public companies in general, including companies listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. There has been particular volatility in the market prices of securities of biotechnology and other life sciences companies, and the market prices of these companies have often fluctuated because of problems or successes in a given market segment or because investor interest has shifted to other segments. These broad market and industry factors may cause the market price of our common stock and other securities to decline, regardless of our operating performance. We have no control over this volatility and can only focus our efforts on our own operations, and even these may be affected due to the state of the capital markets.. In the past, following periods of large price declines in the public market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against that company. Litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of management's attention and resources, which would hurt our business. Any adverse determination in litigation could also subject us to significant liabilities.. The future sale of our common stock or the exchange or conversion of our 2021 notes into common stock could negatively affect the market price of our common stock and other securities.. As of February 9, 2018, we had 120,467,137 shares of common stock outstanding. Substantially all of these shares are available for public sale, subject in some cases to volume and other limitations. If our common stockholders sell substantial amounts of common stock in the public market, or the market perceives that such sales may occur, the market price of our common stock and other securities may decline. Likewise the issuance of additional shares of our common stock upon the exchange or conversion of some or all of our 2021 notes, or Facility Financing Obligation, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and other securities. In addition, the existence of these notes may encourage short selling of our common stock by market participants, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and other securities.. In addition, we will need to raise substantial additional capital in the future to fund our operations. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities or additional convertible debt, the market price of our common stock and other securities may decline.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management.. We are incorporated in Delaware. Certain anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law and in our certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as currently in effect, may make a change of control of our company more difficult, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders or the holders of our other securities. Our anti-takeover provisions include provisions such as a prohibition on stockholder actions by written consent, the authority of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, and supermajority voting requirements for specified actions. In addition, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us in certain circumstances. These provisions may delay or prevent an acquisition of us, even if the acquisition may be considered beneficial by. 32. some of our stockholders. In addition, they may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management.. Because we do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future, you must rely on stock appreciation for any return on any investment in our common stock.. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our capital stock to date, and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, we do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future, and payment of cash dividends, if any, will also depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and other factors and will be at the discretion of our board of directors. Pursuant to the Facility Agreement, we are subject to contractual restrictions on the payment of dividends. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate or maintain its current price. You could lose the entire value of any investment in our common stock."
