[1] "Item 1A.     Risk Factors.. Risks Related to our Business. Our revenues are dependent on the market value and composition of our AUM, which are subject to significant fluctuations.. We derive the majority of our revenue from investment management fees, typically calculated as a percentage of the market value of our AUM. As a result, our revenues are dependent on the value and composition of our AUM, all of which are subject to fluctuation due to many factors, including:. • Declines in prices of securities in our portfolios. The prices of the securities held in the portfolios we manage may decline due to any number of factors beyond our control, including, among others, declining stock or commodities markets, changes in interest rates, a general economic downturn, political uncertainty or acts of terrorism. The U.S. and global financial markets continue to be subject to uncertainty and instability. Such factors could cause an unusual degree of volatility and price declines for securities in the portfolios we manage;. • Redemptions and other withdrawals. Our clients generally may withdraw their funds at any time, on very short notice and without any significant penalty. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from investment advisory agreements that are terminable by clients upon short notice or no notice and investors in the mutual funds we advise can redeem their investments in those funds at any time without prior notice. Also, new clients and portfolios may not. 9. Table of Contents. have the same client retention characteristics as we have experienced in the past. In addition, in a declining stock market, the pace of redemptions could accelerate;. • Investment performance. Our ability to deliver strong investment performance depends in large part on our ability to identify appropriate investment opportunities in which to invest client assets. If we are unable to identify sufficient appropriate investment opportunities for existing and new client assets on a timely basis, our investment performance could be adversely affected. The risk that sufficient appropriate investment opportunities may be unavailable is influenced by a number of factors including general market conditions. If our portfolios perform poorly, even over the short-term, as compared with our competitors or applicable third-party benchmarks, or the rankings of mutual funds we manage decline, we may lose existing AUM and have difficulty attracting new assets; and. • Competition from passive strategies. There has been an increasing preference for passive investment products, such as index and ETFs, over active strategies managed by asset managers. If this market preference continues, existing and prospective clients may choose to invest in passive investment products, our growth strategy may be impaired and our AUM may be negatively impacted.. If any of these factors cause a decline in our AUM, it would result in lower investment management revenues. If our revenues decline without a commensurate reduction in our expenses, our net income will be reduced and our business will be adversely affected.. We derive substantially all of our revenues from contracts and relationships that may be terminated upon short or no notice.. We derive substantially all of our revenues from investment advisory and sub-advisor agreements, all of which are terminable by clients upon short notice or no notice and without any significant penalty.. Our investment management agreements with mutual funds, as required by law, are generally terminable by the funds' board of directors or a vote of the majority of the funds' outstanding voting securities on not more than 60 days' written notice. After an initial term, each fund's investment management agreement must be approved and renewed annually by such fund's board, including by its independent members. Our mutual fund and collective investment trust relationships may be terminated or not renewed for any number of reasons. As of December 31, 2017, mutual fund and collective investment trust relationships represent 33% of our AUM and 40% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017.. The decrease in revenues that could result from the termination of a material client relationship or group of client relationships could have an adverse effect on our business. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, other than our relationship with the Fund, there were no customers that provided over 10 percent of our total revenue.. Our portfolios may not obtain attractive returns under certain market conditions or at all.. The goal of our investment process is to provide competitive absolute returns over full market cycles. Accordingly, our portfolios may not perform well compared to benchmarks or other investment managers' strategies during certain periods of time, under certain market conditions, or after specific market shocks. Underperformance may negatively affect our ability to retain clients and attract new clients. We are likely to be most out of favor when the markets are running on positive or negative price momentum and market prices become disconnected from underlying investment fundamentals. During and shortly following such periods of relative under performance, we are likely to see our highest levels of client turnover, even if our absolute returns are positive. Loss of client assets and the failure to attract new clients could adversely affect our revenues and growth.. The loss of key investment and sales professionals or members of our senior management team could have an adverse effect on our business.. We depend on the skills, expertise and institutional knowledge of our key employees, including qualified investment and sales professionals and members of our senior management team and our success depends on our ability to retain such key employees. Our investment professionals possess substantial experience in investing and have been primarily responsible for the historically attractive investment performance we have achieved. We particularly depend on our executive officers as well as senior members of our research department.. We have had significant changes in executive leadership in the past and more could occur. Changes to strategic or operating goals, which can occur with the appointment of new executives, can create uncertainty, and may ultimately be unsuccessful. In addition, executive leadership transition periods, including adding new personnel, could be difficult as new executives gain an understanding of our business and strategy. Difficulty integrating new executives, or the loss of key individuals could limit our ability to successfully execute our business strategy and could have an adverse effect on our overall financial condition.. Any of our investment or management professionals may resign at any time, subject to various covenants not to compete with us. In addition, employee-owners are subject to additional covenants not to compete.. 10. Table of Contents. Competition for qualified investment, sales and top level management is intense. Attracting qualified personnel, including top level management may take time and we may fail to attract and retain qualified personnel including top level management in the future. Our ability to attract and retain our executive officers and other key employees will depend heavily on our business strategy, corporate culture and the amount and structure of compensation. We have historically utilized a compensation structure that uses a combination of cash and equity-based incentives as appropriate. However, our compensation may not be effective to recruit and retain the personnel we need if our overall compensation packages are not competitive in the marketplace. Any cost-reduction initiative or adjustments or reductions to compensation could negatively impact our ability to retain key personnel. In addition, changes to our management structure, corporate culture and corporate governance arrangements could negatively impact our ability to retain key personnel.. We may be required to reduce the fees we charge, or our fees may decline due to changes in our AUM composition, which could have an adverse effect on our profit margins and results of operations.. Our current fee structure may be subject to downward pressure due to a variety of factors, including a trend in recent years toward lower fees in the investment management industry. We may be required to reduce fees with respect to both the separate accounts we manage and the mutual funds and collective trust funds we advise. In addition, we may charge lower fees to attract future new business as compared to our existing business, which may result in us having to reduce our fees with respect to our existing business accordingly. The investment management agreements pursuant to which we advise mutual funds are terminable on short notice and, after an initial term, are subject to an annual process of review and renewal by the funds' boards. As part of that annual review process, the fund board considers, among other things, the level of compensation that the fund has been paying us for our services, and that process may result in the renegotiation of our fee structure or increase our obligations, thus increasing the cost of our performance. We are in the midst of an effort to restructure fees across our fund product set and anticipate the majority of the financial impacts, including reduced management fees and operating expenses will begin in 2018 and the impact to our overall revenue margins will vary depending on the business mix at the time of the fee change. Any fee reductions on existing or future new business could have an adverse effect on our profit margins and results of operations.. Our AUM is concentrated in certain portfolios.. As of December 31, 2017, 63% of our AUM was invested in products that comprise our blended asset portfolio. As a result, a substantial portion of our operating results depends upon the performance of these products, and our ability to retain client assets in such products. If a significant portion of the investors in our blended asset portfolio decide to withdraw their investments or terminate their investment management agreements for any reason, including poor investment performance or adverse market conditions, our revenues from these portfolios would decline, which could have an adverse effect on our earnings and financial condition.. Several of our portfolios involve investing principally in the securities of non-U.S. companies, which involve foreign currency exchange risk, and tax, political, social and economic uncertainties and risks.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 29% of our AUM across all of our portfolios was invested in securities of non-U.S. companies. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect the returns of our clients who are invested in these strategies. In addition, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to non-U.S. currencies is likely to result in a decrease in the U.S. dollar value of our AUM, which, in turn, could result in lower revenue since we report our financial results in U.S. dollars.. Investments in non-U.S. issuers may also be affected by tax positions taken in countries or regions in which we are invested as well as political, social and economic uncertainty. Declining tax revenues may cause governments to assert their ability to tax the local gains and/or income of foreign investors (including our clients), which could adversely affect clients' interests in investing outside their home markets. Many financial markets are not as developed, or as efficient, as the U.S. financial markets, and as a result, those markets may have limited liquidity and higher price volatility and may lack established regulations. Liquidity may also be adversely affected by political or economic events, government policies, social or civil unrest within a particular country, and our ability to dispose of an investment may also be adversely affected if we increase the size of our investments in smaller non-U.S. issuers. Non-U.S. legal and regulatory environments, including financial accounting standards and practices, may also be different, and there may be less publicly available information about such companies. These risks could adversely affect the performance of our strategies that are invested in securities of non-U.S. issuers and may be particularly acute in the emerging or less developed markets in which we invest.. The historical returns of our existing portfolios may not be indicative of their future results or of the portfolios we may develop in the future.. The historical returns of our portfolios and the ratings and rankings we or the mutual funds that we advise have received in the past should not be considered indicative of the future results of these portfolios or of any other portfolios that we may develop in the future. The investment performance we achieve for our clients varies over time and the variance can be wide.. 11. Table of Contents. The ratings and rankings we or the mutual funds we advise have received are typically revised monthly. The historical performance and ratings and rankings included in this report are as of December 31, 2017 and for periods then ended except where otherwise stated. The performance we have achieved and the ratings and rankings received at subsequent dates and for subsequent periods may be higher or lower and the difference could be material. Our portfolios' returns have benefited during some periods from investment opportunities and positive economic and market conditions. In other periods, general economic and market conditions have negatively affected our portfolios' returns. These negative conditions may occur again, and in the future we may not be able to identify and invest in profitable investment opportunities within our current or future portfolios.. Support provided to new products may reduce fee income, increase expenses and expose us to potential loss on invested capital.. We may support the development of new investment products by waiving all or a portion of the fees we receive for managing such products, by subsidizing expenses or by making seed capital investments. Seed investments in new products utilize Company capital that would otherwise be available for general corporate purposes and expose us to capital losses to the extent that realized investment losses are not offset by hedging gains. The risk of loss may be greater for seed capital investments that are not hedged, or if an intended hedge does not perform as expected. Failure to have or devote sufficient capital to support new products could have on adverse impact on our future growth.. Assets influenced by third-party intermediaries have a higher risk of redemption and are subject to changes in fee structures, which could reduce our revenues.. Investments in our mutual funds made through third-party intermediaries, as opposed to mutual fund investments resulting from sales by our direct sales force, can be more easily moved to investments in funds other than ours. Third-party intermediaries are attractive to investors because of the ease of accessibility to a variety of funds, but this causes the investments to be more sensitive to fluctuations in performance, especially in the short-term. If we were unable to retain the assets of our mutual funds held through third-party intermediaries, our assets under management would be reduced. As a result, our revenues could decline and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. We may elect to pursue growth in the United States and abroad through acquisitions or joint ventures, which would expose us to risks inherent in assimilating new operations, expanding into new jurisdictions, and making non-controlling minority investments in other entities.. In order to maintain and enhance our competitive position, we may review and pursue acquisition and joint venture opportunities. We cannot assure we will identify and consummate any such transactions on acceptable terms or have sufficient resources to accomplish such a strategy. In addition, any strategic transaction can involve a number of risks, including:. • additional demands on our staff;. • unanticipated problems regarding integration of investor account and investment security recordkeeping, operating facilities and technologies, and new employees;. • adverse effects in the event acquired intangible assets or goodwill become impaired;. • the existence of liabilities or contingencies not disclosed to or otherwise known by us prior to closing such a transaction; and. • dilution to our public stockholders if we issue shares of our Class A common stock, or units of Manning & Napier Group with exchange rights, in connection with future acquisitions.. A portion of our separate account business, mutual funds, and collective investment trusts are distributed through intermediaries, platforms, and consultants. Changes in key distribution relationships could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our profitability.. Given that a portion of our product offerings are distributed through intermediaries, platforms, and investment consultants, a share of our success is dependent on access to these various distribution systems. These distributors are not contractually required to distribute or consider our products for placement within advisory programs, on platforms' approved lists, or in active searches conducted by investment consultants. Additionally, these intermediaries typically offer their clients various investment products and services, in addition to and in competition with our products and services. If we are unable to cultivate and build strong relationships within these distribution channels, the sales of our products could lead to a decline in revenues and profitability. Additionally, increasing competition for these distribution channels could cause our distribution costs to rise, which could have an adverse effect on our profitability.. 12. Table of Contents. Our efforts to establish new portfolios or new products or services may be unsuccessful and could negatively impact our results of operations and our reputation.. As part of our growth strategy, we may seek to take advantage of opportunities to develop new portfolios consistent with our philosophy of managing portfolios to meet our clients' objectives and using a team-based investment approach. The costs associated with establishing a new portfolio initially likely will exceed the revenues that the portfolio generates. If any such new portfolio performs poorly or fails to attract sufficient assets to manage, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. Further, a new portfolio's poor performance may negatively impact our reputation and the reputation of our other portfolios within the investment community. In addition, we have developed and may seek from time to time to develop new products and services to take advantage of opportunities involving technology, insurance, participant and plan sponsor education and other products beyond investment management. The development of these products and services could involve investment of financial and management resources and may not be successful in developing client relationships, which could have an adverse effect on our business. The cost to develop these products initially will likely exceed the revenue they generate and additional investment in these products could negatively impact short term financial results. If establishing new portfolios or offering new products or services requires hiring new personnel, to the extent we are unable to recruit and retain sufficient personnel, we may not be successful in further diversifying our portfolios, client assets and business, which could have an adverse effect on our business and future prospects.. Our failure to comply with investment guidelines set by our clients and limitations imposed by applicable law, could result in damage awards against us and a loss of our AUM, either of which could adversely affect our reputation, results of operations or financial condition.. When clients retain us to manage assets on their behalf, they generally specify certain guidelines regarding investment allocation that we are required to follow in managing their portfolios. We are also required to invest the mutual funds' assets in accordance with limitations under the 1940 Act, and applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Other clients, such as plans subject to ERISA, or non-U.S. funds, require us to invest their assets in accordance with applicable law. Our failure to comply with any of these guidelines and other limitations could result in losses to clients or investors in our products which, depending on the circumstances, could result in our obligation to make clients whole for such losses. If we believed that the circumstances did not justify a reimbursement, or clients believed the reimbursement we offered was insufficient, clients could seek to recover damages from us, withdraw assets from our products or terminate their investment management agreement with us. Any of these events could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business.. A change of control of our company could result in termination of our investment advisory agreements.. Under the 1940 Act, each of the investment advisory agreements for SEC registered mutual funds that our affiliate, MNA, advises automatically terminates in the event of its assignment, as defined under the 1940 Act. If such an assignment were to occur, MNA could continue to act as adviser to any such fund only if that fund's board of directors and stockholders approved a new investment advisory agreement, except in the case of certain of the funds that we sub-advise for which only board approval would be necessary. In addition, under the Advisers Act each of the investment advisory agreements for the separate accounts we manage may not be assigned without the consent of the client. An assignment may occur under the 1940 Act and the Advisers Act if, among other things, MNA undergoes a change of control. In certain other cases, the investment advisory agreements for the separate accounts we manage require the consent of the client for any assignment. If such an assignment occurs, we cannot be certain that MNA will be able to obtain the necessary approvals from the boards and stockholders of the mutual funds that it advises or the necessary consents from separate account clients.. Operational risks may disrupt our business, result in losses or limit our growth.. We are heavily dependent on the capacity and reliability of the communications, information and technology systems supporting our operations, whether developed, owned and operated by us or by third parties. Operational risks such as trading or operational errors or interruption of our financial, accounting, trading, compliance and other data processing systems, whether caused by fire, natural disaster or pandemic, power or telecommunications failure, act of terrorism or war or otherwise, could result in a disruption of our business, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage, and thus adversely affect our business. Some types of operational risks, including, for example, trading errors, may be increased in periods of increased volatility, which can magnify the cost of an error. Although we have back-up systems in place, our back-up procedures and capabilities in the event of a failure or interruption may not be adequate, and the fact that we operate our business out of multiple physical locations may make such failures and interruptions difficult to address on a timely and adequate basis.. Developing and maintaining our operational systems and infrastructure may become increasingly challenging, which could constrain our ability to expand our business. Any upgrades or expansions to our operations or technology to accommodate increased volumes of transactions or otherwise may require significant expenditures and may increase the probability that we will suffer system degradations and failures. In addition, our continued success depends on our ability to effectively adopt new or adapt to existing technologies to meet client, industry, and regulatory demands. We might be required. 13. Table of Contents. to make significant capital expenditures to maintain competitive infrastructure. If we are unable to upgrade our infrastructure in a timely fashion, we might lose customers and fail to maintain regulatory compliance, which could affect our results of operations and severely damage our reputation.. We depend on our headquarters in Fairport, New York, where a majority of our employees, administration and technology resources are located, for the continued operation of our business. Any significant disruption to our headquarters could have an adverse effect on our business.. Failure to implement effective information and cyber security policies, procedures and capabilities could disrupt operations and cause financial losses that could result in a decrease in earnings and reputational harm.. We are dependent on the effectiveness of our information and cyber security policies, procedures and capabilities to protect our computer and telecommunications systems and the data that reside on or are transmitted through them. As part of our normal operations, we maintain and transmit confidential information about our clients and employees as well as proprietary information relating to our business operations. We maintain a system of internal controls designed to provide reasonable assurance that fraudulent activity, including misappropriation of assets, fraudulent financial reporting and unauthorized access to sensitive or confidential data is either prevented or detected on a timely basis. Nevertheless, all technology systems remain vulnerable to unauthorized access and may be corrupted by cyberattacks, computer viruses or other malicious software code, the nature of which threats are constantly evolving and becoming increasingly sophisticated. Breach or other failure of our technology systems, including those of third parties with which we do business, or failure to timely and effectively identify and respond to any such breach or failure, could result in the loss of valuable information, liability for stolen assets or information, remediation costs to repair damage caused by the incident, additional security costs to mitigate against future incidents, increased insurance premiums, and litigation costs resulting from the incident. Moreover, loss of confidential customer information could harm our reputation, result in the termination of contracts by our existing customers and subject us to liability under laws that protect confidential personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenues. Ultimately, a cyberattack can damage our competitiveness, stock price and long-term shareholder value. Recent well-publicized security breaches at other companies have led to enhanced government and regulatory scrutiny of the measures taken by companies to protect against cyberattacks, and may in the future result in heightened cybersecurity requirements, including additional regulatory expectations for oversight of vendors and service providers.. We depend on third-party service providers for services that are important to our business, and an interruption or cessation of such services by any such service providers could have an adverse effect on our business.. We depend on a number of service providers, including custodial and clearing firms, and vendors of communications and networking products and services. We cannot assure that these providers will be able to continue to provide these services in an efficient manner or that they will be able to adequately expand their services to meet our needs. An interruption or malfunction in or the cessation of an important service by any third-party and our inability to make alternative arrangements in a timely manner, or at all, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results.. Employee misconduct could expose us to significant legal liability and reputational harm.. We operate in an industry in which integrity and the confidence of our clients are of critical importance. Accordingly, if any of our employees engage in illegal or suspicious activities or other misconduct, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and suffer serious harm to our reputation, financial condition, client relationships and ability to attract new clients. For example, our business often requires that we deal with confidential information. If our employees were to improperly use or disclose this information, even if inadvertently, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation, financial condition and current and future business relationships. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not always be effective. Misconduct by our employees, or even unsubstantiated allegations of misconduct, could result in an adverse effect on our reputation and our business.. Failure to properly address conflicts of interest could harm our reputation, business and results of operations.. We must monitor and address any conflicts between our interests and those of our clients. The SEC and other regulators scrutinize potential conflicts of interest, and we have implemented procedures and controls that we believe are reasonably designed to address these issues. However, appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex, and if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest, we could face reputational damage, litigation or regulatory proceedings or penalties, any of which could adversely affect our reputation, business and results of operations.. If our techniques for managing risk are ineffective, we may be exposed to material unanticipated losses.. In order to manage the significant risks inherent in our business, we must maintain effective policies, procedures and systems that enable us to identify, monitor and control our exposure to operational, legal and reputational risks. Our risk management methods may prove to be ineffective due to their design or implementation, or as a result of the lack of adequate, accurate or timely information or otherwise. If our risk management efforts are ineffective, we could suffer losses that could. 14. Table of Contents. have an adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results. Additionally, we could be subject to litigation, particularly from our clients, and sanctions or fines from regulators. Our techniques for managing risks in client portfolios may not fully mitigate the risk exposure in all economic or market environments, or against all types of risk, including risks that we might fail to identify or anticipate.. Federal income tax reform could have unforeseen effects on our financial condition and results of operations.. On December 22, 2017, the President of the United States signed into law H.R.1, originally known as the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,\" hereafter referred to as \"U.S. tax reform.\" The Company is in the process of determining the impact to the financial statements of all aspects of U.S. tax reform and will reflect the impact of such reform in the financial statements during the period in which such amounts can be reasonably estimated. U.S. tax reform includes a number of provisions, including the lowering of the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent, effective January 1, 2018. Existing accounting rules require the effect of a change in the tax law or rates to be recognized in income as a component of the income tax provision in the period a bill is signed into law. Existing accounting rules also require deferred tax assets and liabilities to be remeasured at the enacted rate. Since the accounting for the income tax effects of U.S. tax reform is incomplete at this time, we determined a reasonable estimate for those effects and reported provisional amounts that would be subject to adjustment during a measurement period until our accounting is complete. If the estimates and assumptions we used to revalue our net deferred tax assets in accordance with U.S. tax reform are inaccurate, we could experience negative effects on our financial condition and results of operations.. The cost of insuring our business is substantial and may increase.. While we carry insurance in amounts and under terms that we believe are appropriate, we cannot guarantee that our insurance will cover all liabilities and losses to which we may be exposed or, if covered, that such liabilities and losses will not exceed the limits of available insurance coverage, or that our insurers will remain solvent and meet their obligations. In addition, we cannot guarantee that our insurance policies will continue to be available at current terms and fees.. We believe our insurance costs are reasonable but they could fluctuate significantly from year to year. In addition, certain insurance coverage may not be available or may only be available at prohibitive costs. As we renew our insurance policies, we may be subject to additional costs resulting from rising premiums, the assumption of higher deductibles or co-insurance liability and, to the extent certain of our mutual funds purchase separate director and officer or errors and omissions liability coverage, an increased risk of insurance companies disputing responsibility for joint claims. Higher insurance costs and incurred deductibles, as with any expense, would reduce our net income.. Risks Related to our Industry. We are subject to extensive regulation.. We are subject to extensive regulation for our investment management business and operations, including regulation by the SEC under the 1940 Act and the Advisers Act, by the U.S. Department of Labor under ERISA, by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc., (\"FINRA\"), by the National Futures Association and U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The U.S. mutual funds we advise are registered with and regulated by the SEC as investment companies under the 1940 Act. The Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations on investment advisers including record keeping, advertising and operating requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities. The 1940 Act imposes similar obligations, as well as additional detailed operational requirements, on registered investment companies, which must be adhered to by their investment advisers. The U.S. mutual funds that we advise and our broker-dealer subsidiary are each subject to the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, which requires them to know certain information about their clients and to monitor their transactions for suspicious financial activities, including money laundering. The U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control, (\"OFAC\"), has issued regulations requiring that we refrain from doing business, or allow our clients to do business through us, in certain countries or with certain organizations or individuals on a list maintained by the U.S. government.. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could result in fines, censure, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our registration as an investment adviser. Even if a sanction imposed against us or our personnel is small in monetary amount, the adverse publicity arising from the imposition of sanctions against us by regulators could harm our reputation, result in withdrawal by our clients from our products and impede our ability to retain clients and develop new client relationships, which may reduce our revenues.. We face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities, including extended investigation and surveillance activity, adoption of costly or restrictive new regulations and judicial or administrative proceedings that may result in substantial penalties. Among other things, we could be fined or be prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities. The requirements imposed by our regulators are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect customers and other third parties who deal with us, and are not designed to protect our stockholders. Accordingly, these regulations often serve to limit our activities, including through net capital, customer protection and market conduct requirements.. 15. Table of Contents. The regulatory environment in which we and our clients operate is subject to continual change, and regulatory developments designed to increase oversight could adversely affect our business.. The legislative and regulatory environment in which we operate undergoes continuous change and we believe that this trend will intensify, subjecting industry participants to additional, more costly and potentially more punitive regulation. New laws or regulations, or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations, applicable to us and our clients could adversely affect our business. Any or all of the regulators who oversee us could adopt new rules or rule amendments that could substantially impact how we operate and may necessitate significant expenditures in order to adapt and comply.. Our ability to function in an uncertain and ever-changing regulatory environment will depend on our ability to constantly monitor and promptly react to legislative and regulatory changes, which inevitably result in intangible costs and resource drains. The compliance burden resulting from regulatory changes and uncertainty is likely to increase, particularly as regulators grow more technologically advanced and more reliant on data analytics. As a result, we may be forced to divert resources and expenditures to information technology in order to analyze data and risk in the same manner as regulators and to be able to provide regulators with the data output they may expect going forward.. Regulations may accelerate industry trends towards passive or lower cost investment options, centralized due diligence and shrinking platform ability, making access to intermediary decision-makers more challenging. Mutual fund intermediaries may be forced to eliminate or curtail the availability of certain mutual fund share classes, which may hamper our distribution efforts and reduce assets in the mutual fund. Similarly, platform consolidations may prevent our separate account intermediaries from supporting our products, which could result in AUM declines and fewer distribution channels.. There have been a number of highly publicized regulatory inquiries that have focused on the investment management industry. These inquiries have resulted in increased scrutiny of the industry and new rules and regulations for mutual funds and investment managers. This regulatory scrutiny may limit our ability to engage in certain activities that might be beneficial to our shareholders. Further, adverse results of regulatory investigations of mutual fund, investment advisory and financial services firms could tarnish the reputation of the financial services industry generally and mutual funds and investment advisers more specifically, causing investors to avoid further fund investments or redeem their account balances. Redemptions would decrease our AUM, which would reduce our advisory revenues and net income.. Further, due to acts of serious fraud in the investment management industry and perceived lapses in regulatory oversight, U.S. and non-U.S. governmental and regulatory authorities may continue to increase regulatory oversight of our business.. The investment management industry is intensely competitive.. The investment management industry is intensely competitive, with competition based on a variety of factors, including investment performance, investment management fee rates, recent trend towards favor for passive investment products, continuity of investment professionals and client relationships, the quality of services provided to clients, corporate positioning and business reputation, continuity of selling arrangements with intermediaries and differentiated products. A number of factors, including the following, serve to increase our competitive risks:. • some competitors, including those with passive investment products and exchange traded funds, charge lower fees for their investment services than we do;. • a number of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, more comprehensive name recognition and more personnel than we do;. • potential competitors have a relatively low cost of entering the investment management industry;. • the recent trend toward consolidation in the investment management industry, and the securities business in general, has served to increase the size and strength of a number of our competitors;. • some investors may prefer to invest with an investment manager that is not publicly traded based on the perception that a publicly traded asset manager may focus on the manager's own growth to the detriment of investment performance for clients;. • some competitors may invest according to different investment styles or in alternative asset classes that the markets may perceive as more attractive than the portfolios we offer;. • some competitors may have more attractive investment returns due to current market conditions;. • some competitors may operate in a different regulatory environment than we do, which may give them certain competitive advantages in the investment products and portfolio structures that they offer; and. • other industry participants, hedge funds and alternative asset managers may seek to recruit our investment professionals.. 16. Table of Contents. If we are unable to compete effectively, our revenues could be reduced and our business could be adversely affected.. The investment management industry faces substantial litigation risks, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause significant reputational harm to us.. We depend to a large extent on our network of relationships and on our reputation to attract and retain client assets. If a client is not satisfied with our services, its dissatisfaction may be more damaging to our business than client dissatisfaction would be to other types of businesses. We make investment decisions on behalf of our clients that could result in substantial losses to them. If our clients suffer significant losses, or are otherwise dissatisfied with our services, we could be subject to the risk of legal liabilities or actions alleging negligent misconduct, breach of fiduciary duty, breach of contract, unjust enrichment and/or fraud. These risks are often difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time, even after an action has been commenced. We may incur significant legal expenses in defending against litigation whether or not we engaged in conduct as a result of which we might be subject to legal liability. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause significant reputational harm to us.. Catastrophic and unpredictable events could have an adverse effect on our business.. A terrorist attack, war, power failure, cyber-attack, natural disaster or other catastrophic or unpredictable event could adversely affect our future revenues, expenses and earnings by:. • decreasing investment valuations in, and returns on, the assets that we manage;. • causing disruptions in national or global economies that decrease investor confidence and make investment products generally less attractive;. • interrupting our normal business operations;. • sustaining employee casualties, including loss of our key members of our senior management team or our investment team;. • requiring substantial expenditures and expenses to repair, replace and restore normal business operations; and. • reducing investor confidence.. We have a disaster recovery plan to address certain contingencies, but we cannot be assured that this plan will be sufficient in responding or ameliorating the effects of all disaster scenarios. If our employees or the vendors we rely upon for support in a catastrophic event are unable to respond adequately or in a timely manner, we may lose clients resulting in a decrease in AUM which may have an adverse effect on revenues and net income.. Risks Related to Our Structure. William Manning and our current and former employee owners, beneficially own approximately 82% of Manning & Napier Group, which may give rise to conflicts of interest; failure to properly address these or other conflicts of interests could harm our reputation, business and results of operations.. Our current and former employee owners, including William Manning, directly and through their ownership of M&N Group Holdings (\"M&N Group Holdings\") and Manning & Napier Capital Company, LLC (\"MNCC\"), indirectly hold approximately 82% of the ownership interests in Manning & Napier Group which, as discussed elsewhere, is our sole source of revenue. M&N Group Holdings and MNCC are entities controlled by William Manning, who, through his ownership indirectly owns a total of approximately 77% of the ownership interests in Manning & Napier Group. All of the other owners of interests in M&N Group Holdings and MNCC are current or former management team members of ours, including certain of our executive officers. Through William Manning and our current and former employee owners' economic interest, they may receive payments from Manning & Napier under the tax receivable agreement (\"TRA\") entered into with them at the time of the reorganization transactions and the proceeds they may receive as a result of M&N Group Holdings and MNCC exchanging the interests attributable to them in Manning & Napier Group for cash or, at our election, shares of our Class A common stock and, in the case of exchanges for shares of our Class A common stock, from selling such Class A common stock. As a result, William Manning and our current and former employee owners' economic interests may conflict with the interests of Manning & Napier and its public stockholders.. Further, such owners have the right to cause M&N Group Holdings and MNCC to exchange their indirect interests in Manning & Napier Group for cash or shares of our Class A common stock. If they exercise this right in sufficient amounts, receive shares of our Class A common stock and do not resell such shares, these owners may control us.. The interests of these owners may conflict with our interests and the interests of the holders of our Class A common stock. Decisions of these owners, including William Manning, our Chairman, with respect to Manning & Napier Group, including those relating to the tax receivable agreement, the exchange agreement and the structuring of future transactions, may take into consideration these owners' tax or other considerations even where no similar benefit would accrue to us or the holders of our Class A common stock.. 17. Table of Contents. Our ability to pay regular dividends to our stockholders is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and may be limited by our structure and applicable provisions of Delaware law.. We intend to declare cash dividends on our Class A common stock, however, our board of directors may, in its sole discretion, change the amount or frequency of dividends or discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. In addition, because of our structure, we will be dependent upon the ability of our subsidiaries to generate earnings and cash flows and distribute them to us so that we may pay dividends to our stockholders. We expect to cause Manning & Napier Group to make distributions to its members, including us, in an amount sufficient for us to pay dividends. However, its ability to make such distributions will be subject to its and its subsidiaries' operating results, cash requirements and financial condition, the applicable laws of the State of Delaware, which may limit the amount of funds available for distribution, and its compliance with covenants and financial ratios related to any indebtedness it may incur in the future. In addition, as described elsewhere, under the terms of its operating agreement, Manning & Napier Group is obligated to make tax distributions to holders of its units, including us. As a consequence of these various limitations and restrictions, we may not be able to make, or may have to reduce or eliminate, the payment of dividends on our Class A common stock. Any change in the level of our dividends or the suspension of the payment thereof could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock.. We depend on distributions from Manning & Napier Group to pay taxes and expenses, including payments under the tax receivable agreement, but Manning & Napier Group's ability to make such distributions will be subject to various limitations and restrictions.. We have no material assets other than our ownership of Class A units of Manning & Napier Group and have no independent means of generating revenue. Manning & Napier Group is treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes and, as such, is not subject to U.S. federal income tax. Instead, taxable income is allocated to holders of its units, including us. Accordingly, we incur income taxes on our allocable share of any net taxable income of Manning & Napier Group. Under the terms of its operating agreement, Manning & Napier Group is obligated to make tax distributions to holders of its units, including us. In addition to tax expenses, we also incur expenses related to our operations, including expenses under the tax receivable agreement, which we expect to be significant. We intend, as its managing member, to cause Manning & Napier Group to make distributions in an amount sufficient to allow us to pay our taxes and operating expenses, including any payments due under the tax receivable agreement. However, Manning & Napier Group's ability to make such distributions is subject to various limitations and restrictions including, but not limited to, restrictions on distributions that would violate any contract or agreement to which Manning & Napier Group is then a party or any applicable law or that would have the effect of rendering Manning & Napier Group insolvent. If we do not have sufficient funds to pay tax or other liabilities to fund our operations, we may have to borrow funds, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and subject us to various restrictions imposed by any such lenders.. Furthermore, by paying cash distributions rather than investing in our business, we might not have sufficient cash to fund operations or new growth initiatives that will support the growth of our business.. We are required to pay holders of units of Manning & Napier Group for certain tax benefits we may claim as a result of the tax basis step up we realize in connection with the future purchases or exchanges of those units for shares of our Class A common stock, and the amounts we may pay could be significant.. Our current and former employee owners indirectly hold a substantial majority of the ownership interests in Manning & Napier Group. Any future purchases or exchanges of their units of Manning & Napier Group for cash or, at our election, shares of our Class A common stock are expected to produce favorable tax attributes for us. When we acquire such units, both the existing basis and the anticipated basis adjustments are likely to increase, for tax purposes, depreciation and amortization deductions allocable to us from Manning & Napier Group and therefore reduce the amount of income tax we would otherwise be required to pay in the future. This increase in tax basis may also decrease gain, or increase loss, on future dispositions of certain capital assets to the extent the increased tax basis is allocated to those capital assets.. We entered into a tax receivable agreement with the other holders of Class A units of Manning & Napier Group, pursuant to which we are required to pay to such holder of such Class A units 85% of the applicable cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state, local and foreign income tax that we actually realize, or is deemed to realize in certain circumstances, as a result of any step-up in tax basis in Manning & Napier Group's assets as a result of (i) certain tax attributes of our purchase of such Class A units or exchanged (for shares of Class A common stock) and that are created as a result of the sales or exchanges and payments under the tax receivable agreement and (ii) payments under the tax receivable agreement, including any tax benefits related to imputed interest deemed to be paid by us as a result of such agreement.. We expect that the payments we will be required to make under the tax receivable agreement will be substantial. We have recorded the estimated impacts of U.S. tax reform on the liability under the tax receivable agreement. Assuming no new material changes in the relevant tax law, the purchase or exchange of Class A units would result in depreciable or amortizable basis and that we earn sufficient taxable income to realize all tax benefits that are subject to the tax receivable agreement, we expect that the reduction in tax payments for us is approximately $22.7 million as of December 31, 2017. Under such scenario,. 18. Table of Contents. we would be required to pay the holders of such Class A units 85% of such amount, or approximately $21.8 million. The actual amounts may materially differ from these estimated amounts, as potential future reductions in tax payments for us and tax receivable agreement payments by us will be calculated using the market value of our Class A common stock and the prevailing tax rates at the time of purchase or exchange and will be dependent on us generating sufficient future taxable income to realize the benefit. In general, increases in the market value of our shares or in prevailing tax rates will increase the amounts we pay under the tax receivable agreement.. The actual increase in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under the tax receivable agreement, will vary depending upon a number of factors, including:. • the timing of exchanges by the holders of units of Manning & Napier Group, the number of units purchased or exchanged, or the price of our Class A common stock, as the case may be, at the time of the purchase or exchange;. • the amount and timing of the taxable income we generate in the future and the tax rate then applicable; and. • the portion of our payments under the tax receivable agreement constituting imputed interest and whether the purchases or exchanges result in depreciable or amortizable basis.. There is a possibility that not all of the 85% of the applicable cash savings will be paid to the selling or exchanging holder of Class A units at the time described above. If we determine that all or a portion of such applicable tax savings is in doubt, we will pay to the holders of such Class A units the amount attributable to the portion of the applicable tax savings that we determine is not in doubt and pay the remainder at such time as we determine the actual tax savings or that the amount is no longer in doubt.. Payments under the tax receivable agreement, if any, will be made pro rata among all tax receivable agreement holders entitled to payments on an annual basis to the extent we have sufficient taxable income to utilize the increased depreciation and amortization expense. The availability of sufficient taxable income to utilize the increased depreciation and amortization expense will not be determined until such time as the financial results for the year in question are known and tax estimates prepared. To the extent that we are unable to make payments under the tax receivable agreement for any reason, such payments will be deferred and will accrue interest until paid.. In certain cases, payments under the tax receivable agreement to holders of Manning & Napier Group units may be accelerated and/or significantly exceed the actual benefits we realize in respect of the tax attributes subject to the tax receivable agreement.. The tax receivable agreement provides that upon certain mergers, asset sales, other forms of business combinations or other changes of control, or if, at any time, we elect an early termination of the tax receivable agreement, our obligations under the tax receivable agreement with respect to all Class A units of Manning & Napier Group, whether or not such units have been purchased or exchanged before or after such transaction, would be based on certain assumptions, including that we would have sufficient taxable income to fully utilize the deductions arising from the increased tax deductions and tax basis and other benefits related to entering into the tax receivable agreement. As a result, (i) we could be required to make payments under the tax receivable agreement that are greater than or less than the specified percentage of the actual benefits we realize in respect of the tax attributes subject to the tax receivable agreement and (ii) if we elect to terminate the tax receivable agreement early, we would be required to make an immediate payment equal to the present value of the anticipated future tax benefits, which payment may be made significantly in advance of the actual realization of such future benefits. In these situations, our obligations under the tax receivable agreement could have a substantial negative impact on our liquidity and could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing certain mergers, asset sales, other forms of business combinations or other changes of control. There can be no assurance that we will be able to finance our obligations under the tax receivable agreement. If we were to elect to terminate the tax receivable agreement immediately as of December 31, 2017, we estimate that we would be required to pay up to approximately $52.5 million in the aggregate, which assumes the exchange of 63,931,065 units of Manning & Napier Group held by those other than us under the tax receivable agreement.. If we were deemed an investment company under the 1940 Act as a result of our ownership of Manning & Napier Group, applicable restrictions could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and could have an adverse effect on our business.. We do not believe that we are an \"investment company\" under the 1940 Act. Because we, as the sole managing member of Manning & Napier Group, control the management of and operations of Manning & Napier Group, we believe that our interest in Manning & Napier Group is not an \"investment security\" as such term is used in the 1940 Act. If we were to cease participation in the management of Manning & Napier Group or not be deemed to control Manning & Napier Group, our interest in Manning & Napier Group could be deemed an \"investment security\" for purposes of the 1940 Act. A person may be an \"investment company\" if it owns investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items). Our sole asset is our equity investment in Manning & Napier Group. A determination that such investment is an investment security could cause us to be deemed an investment company under the. 19. Table of Contents. 1940 Act and to become subject to the registration and other requirements of the 1940 Act. In addition, we do not believe that we are an investment company under Section 3(b)(1) of the 1940 Act because we are not primarily engaged in a business that causes us to fall within the definition of \"investment company.\" The 1940 Act and the rules thereunder contain detailed prescriptions for the organization and operations of investment companies. Among other things, the 1940 Act and the rules thereunder limit or prohibit transactions with affiliates, impose limitations on the issuance of debt and equity securities, prohibit the issuance of stock options, and impose certain governance requirements. We and Manning & Napier Group intend to conduct our operations so that we will not be deemed an investment company. However, if we nevertheless were to be deemed an investment company, restrictions imposed by the 1940 Act, including limitations on our capital structure and our ability to transact with affiliates, could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock. The market price and trading volume of our Class A common stock may be volatile, which could result in rapid and substantial losses for our stockholders.. The market price of our Class A common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume of our Class A common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. If the market price of our Class A common stock declines significantly, investors may be unable to sell shares of Class A common stock at or above their purchase price, if at all. The market price of our Class A common stock may fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect the price of our Class A common stock, or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our Class A common stock, include:. • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results;. • failure to meet the market's earnings expectations;. • publication of negative research reports about us or the investment management industry, or the failure of securities analysts to cover our Class A common stock;. • a limited float and low average daily trading volume, which may result in illiquidity as investors try to buy and sell and thereby exacerbating positive or negative pressure on our stock;. • departures of any members of our senior management team or additions or departures of other key personnel;. • adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or securities we may issue in the future;. • changes in market valuations of similar companies;. • actual or anticipated poor performance in one or more of the portfolios we offer;. • changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations, or differing interpretations thereof, affecting our business, or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters;. • adverse publicity about the investment management industry generally, or particular scandals, specifically;. • litigation and governmental investigations;. • consummation by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures;. • actions by stockholders;. • exchange of units of Manning & Napier Group for shares of our Class A common stock or the expectation that such conversions or exchanges may occur; and. • general market and economic conditions.. William Manning and our other owners directly and indirectly own interests in M&N Group Holdings and directly own interests in MNCC, and they will have the right to exchange and cause M&N Group Holdings and MNCC to exchange, as applicable, such interests for cash or an aggregate of 63,931,065 shares of our Class A common stock pursuant to the terms of an exchange agreement; future sales of such shares in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could lower our stock price.. The market price of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our Class A common stock available for sale, or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also may make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital by selling equity securities in the future, at a time and price that we deem appropriate.. 20. Table of Contents. We have 15,039,347 shares of Class A common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2017. We have entered into an exchange agreement with M&N Group Holding and MNCC, the other direct holders of all of the units of Manning & Napier Group that are not held by the Company and, subject to certain restrictions, are entitled to exchange such units for an aggregate of up to 63,931,065 shares of our Class A common stock, subject to customary adjustments. In addition, the holders of any units of Manning & Napier Group will also become parties to the exchange agreement and, pursuant to the terms of the exchange agreement, we may also purchase or exchange such units for shares of our Class A common stock. We are party to a registration rights agreement pursuant to which the shares of Class A common stock issued upon such exchanges are eligible for resale, subject to certain limitations set forth therein.. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our Class A common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our Class A common stock may have on the market price of our Class A common stock. Sales or distributions of substantial amounts of our Class A common stock, including shares issued in connection with an acquisition, or the perception that such sales or distributions could occur, may cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline.. Our Class A common stockholders may experience dilution in the future as a result of the issuance of Class A common stock or units of Manning & Napier Group in connection with future acquisitions and/or equity grants under our 2011 Equity Compensation Plan.. We may issue shares of our Class A common stock or units of Manning & Napier Group in connection with future acquisitions or grants under the Manning & Napier 2011 Equity Compensation Plan (the \"2011 Plan\"). If we grant exchange rights with respect to the issuance of the units of Manning & Napier Group that allow its holder to exchange such units for shares of our Class A common stock, stockholders will incur dilution in the percentage of the issued and outstanding shares of Class A common stock that are owned at such time.. If we fail to comply with fulfilling our public company financial reporting and other regulatory obligations, our business and stock price could be adversely affected.. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, have implemented specific corporate governance practices and adhere to a variety of reporting requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, as well as the rules of the New York Stock Exchange (the ''NYSE'').. Our management is required to conduct an annual assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and include a report on our internal controls in our annual reports on Form 10-K pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In addition, we are required to have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. If our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, market perception of our financial condition and the trading price of our stock may be adversely affected and customer perception of our business may suffer.. Our corporate documents and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of the Company.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult. These provisions:. • authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include super voting, special approval, dividend, or other rights or preferences superior to the rights of the holders of our Class A common stock;. • prohibit stockholder action by written consent and instead require all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders;. • provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter, or repeal our amended and restated bylaws; and. • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and. These anti-takeover provisions and other provisions under Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company, even if doing so would benefit the holders of our Class A common stock.. 21. Table of Contents. Any issuance of preferred stock could make it difficult for another company to acquire us or could otherwise adversely affect holders of our Class A common stock, which could depress the price of our Class A common stock.. Our board of directors has the authority to issue preferred stock and to determine the preferences, limitations and relative rights of shares of preferred stock and to fix the number of shares constituting any series and the designation of such series, without any further vote or action by our stockholders. Our preferred stock could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to the rights of our Class A common stock. The potential issuance of preferred stock may delay or prevent a change in control of us, discouraging bids for our Class A common stock at a premium over the market price, and adversely affect the market price and the voting and other rights of the holders of our Class A common stock.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our Class A common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline."
