[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to our investors.  You should carefully consider the following risks, together with the other information contained in or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.  Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, as well as the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this Annual Report.. The risks described below are not the only risks we face.  Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us, or those we currently deem to be immaterial, may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.  This section contains forward-looking statements.  You should refer to the explanation of the qualification and limitations of forward-looking statements set forth at the beginning of this Annual Report.. Risks Related to Our Business. We depend on contracts with the U.S. government for substantially all of our revenues.  If our relationships with the U.S. government are harmed, our business, future revenues and growth prospects could be adversely affected.. We derive the vast majority of our revenues from our U.S. government customers.  We expect that U.S. government contracts will continue to be the primary source of our revenues for the foreseeable future.  For this reason, any issue that compromises our relationship with the U.S. government generally or any U.S. government agency that we serve could adversely and materially harm our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results.  Among the key factors in maintaining our relationships with U.S. government agencies are our performance on our contracts and task orders, the strength of our professional reputation, compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and the strength of our relationships with our customers and client personnel. To the extent our reputation or relationships with U.S. government agencies is impaired, our revenue and operating profits could materially decline.. We derive most of our revenues from contracts awarded through competitive bidding processes, and our revenue and profitability may be adversely impacted if we fail to compete effectively in such processes, or if there are delays as a result of our competitors' protests of contract awards that we receive.. We derive a significant portion of revenues from U.S. government contracts awarded through a competitive bidding process.  We do not anticipate that this will change in the foreseeable future.  Our failure to compete effectively in this procurement environment would have a material adverse impact on our revenue and profitability.  The competitive bidding process involves risk and significant costs to businesses operating in this environment including:. • the substantial cost and managerial time and effort spent to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us;. • the need to expend resources and make financial commitments (such as procuring leased premises) and bid on programs in advance of the completion of their design, which may result in unforeseen difficulties in execution, cost overruns, or, in the case of unsuccessful competitions, the loss of committed costs;. • the expense and delays that may arise if our competitors protest or challenge contract awards made to us, and the risk that any such protest could result in the resubmission of bids on modified specifications, or in the termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract; and. 8. • the ability to accurately estimate the resources and costs structure required to service any contract we are awarded.. The current competitive environment has resulted in an increase in the number of bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards. It can take months to resolve protests by one or more of our competitors of contract awards we receive.  Even where the protest does not result in us losing the awarded contract, the resulting delay in startup and funding of the work under such contracts may cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from anticipated results.. If we are unable to win particular contracts that are awarded through the competitive bidding process, we may not be able to operate in the market for services that are provided under those contracts for the duration of those contracts, to the extent that there is no additional demand for such services.  Our inability to win new contract awards over an extended period of time would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We face aggressive competition from many competitors, which may adversely impact our profitability and growth prospects.. We operate in highly competitive markets and generally encounter intense competition to win contracts, which are usually subject to competitive bidding processes.  We may not be able to continue to win competitively awarded contracts at historic levels.  We compete with larger companies who may have greater financial resources than we have.  We also compete with smaller, more specialized companies that may be able to concentrate their resources into highly-skilled niche markets.  Our competitors may be able to provide our customers with different or greater capabilities or better contract terms than we can provide, including price, technical qualifications, past contract experience, geographic presence and the availability of qualified professional personnel.  In particular, increased efforts by our competitors to meet U.S. government requirements for efficiency and cost reduction may require that we charge lower prices to pass along cost savings as a result of the 2017 Tax Act to the U.S. Government to win or retain contracts.  If we lose business to our competitors or are forced to reduce our prices, our revenue and operating profits could decline.. We may fail to attract and retain skilled and qualified employees with requisite specialized skill sets or security clearances, which could impair our ability to effectively serve our clients, require more subcontracting work than is optimal, and limit our growth prospects.. Our business depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain sufficient numbers of employees who have advanced IT and technical services skills.  Often, these employees must also have some of the highest security clearances in the United States.  Security clearances may take 12-24 months to complete depending upon the level of clearance and demand levels for cleared professionals.  These employees are in great demand, and we compete intensely for such qualified personnel with other U.S. government contractors, the U.S. government, and private industry.  Such personnel may remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future.  If we are unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees or fail to obtain their appropriate security clearances in a timely manner, our ability to maintain and grow our business and effectively serve our clients could be limited and our future revenues and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted.  Furthermore, to the extent that we are unable to hire sufficient qualified employees to staff our contracts, we may be required to engage larger numbers of contracted personnel, which could reduce our profit margins.  Even if we are able to attract the requisite skilled employees, the intense competition for such employees may result in attrition in our employee ranks, requiring us to expend additional resources to hire and train replacement personnel.  The loss of services of key personnel could impair our ability to perform required services under some of our contracts, which could result in the termination of such contracts and limit our ability to win new business.. U.S. government spending and mission priorities could change in a manner that adversely affects our future revenues and limits our growth prospects.. Our business depends upon continued U.S. government expenditures on intelligence, defense, homeland security, federal health IT and other programs that we support.  These expenditures have not remained constant over time, have been reduced in certain periods and, recently, have been affected by the U.S. government's efficiency and cost reduction efforts.  Additionally, in recent years, in the face of growing national debt and long-term fiscal challenges facing the nation, spending levels for U.S. government programs generally, and in particular the U.S. defense budget, have come under pressure.  During this period, Congress failed to approve budgets on a timely basis, eventually resulting in a government shutdown.  Notwithstanding the recent stabilization of base budgets and improved budget clarity, discretionary spending may remain constrained, affect future levels of expenditures (or timing of expenditures), place pressure on operating margins, or result in a shift of expenditures to programs that we do not currently support.  Each of these changes in U.S. government spending could adversely impact our business and future results of operations.. 9. The U.S. government may prefer minority-owned, small and small disadvantaged businesses; therefore, we may have fewer opportunities to bid for.. As a result of the Small Business Administration set-aside program, the U.S. government may decide to restrict certain procurements only to bidders that qualify as minority-owned, small, or small disadvantaged businesses.  As a result, we would not be eligible to perform as a prime contractor on those programs and would be restricted to a maximum of 49% of the work as a subcontractor on those programs.  An increase in the amount of procurements under the Small Business Administration set-aside program may impact our ability to bid on new procurements as a prime contractor or restrict our ability to recompete on incumbent work that is placed in the set-aside program. An increase in set-aside work, even where we are successful in teaming with a small business, could result in less revenue and profit for us.. We may not realize the full value of our backlog, which may result is lower revenues than anticipated.. As of December 31, 2017, our backlog was $7.1 billion, of which $1.4 billion was funded.  Backlog is our estimate of the remaining future revenues from existing signed contracts, assuming the exercise of all options relating to such contracts and including executed task orders issued under ID/IQ contracts.  Backlog also includes estimates of revenues for solutions that we believe we will be asked to provide in the future under the terms of ID/IQ contracts for which we have an established pattern of revenues.  Our estimates are based on our experience using such vehicles and similar contracts.  However, our estimates of future revenues are inexact and the receipt of these revenues are subject to various contingencies, many of which are beyond our control.. Historically, we have not realized all of the revenue included in our total backlog, and we may not realize all of the revenue included in our total backlog in the future. The actual accrual and recognition of revenues on programs that are included in backlog may never occur or may change for a number of reasons, including if a program is changed, delayed or cancelled; if the funding or scope of a contract is reduced, modified, delayed or terminated early (including as a result of a lack of appropriated funds or as a result of cost cutting initiatives); if an option that we have assumed would be exercised is not exercised; or if our estimates regarding the amount of services that we will provide under contracts prove to be inaccurate.  Our unfunded backlog, in particular, contains management's estimate of amounts expected to be realized on unfunded contract work, and this work may never be realized as revenues.  In addition, there can be no assurance that our backlog will result in actual revenue during any particular fiscal period, as the timing of the receipt of revenue under contracts included in backlog is subject to various contingencies, many of which are beyond our control.. If we fail to realize as revenues amounts included in our backlog, our future revenues and growth prospects may be adversely affected.. Our earnings and profitability may be adversely affected if we do not accurately estimate the expenses, time and resources necessary to satisfy some of our contractual obligations.. We enter into three types of U.S. government contracts for our services: cost-reimbursable, time-and-materials and fixed-price.  Our customers have increasingly procured our services under cost-reimbursable contracts, which tend to offer lower margin opportunities than other contract types.. For our last three fiscal years, we derived revenues from such contracts as follows:. Year Ended  December 31,   2017   2016   2015 Cost-reimbursable 66 %   68 %   68 % Fixed-price 21 %   19 %   21 % Time-and-materials 13 %   13 %   11 % Total 100 %   100 %   100 %. Each of these types of contracts, to varying degrees, involves some risk that we could underestimate our cost of fulfilling the contract, which may reduce the profit we earn or lead to a financial loss on the contract.. • Under cost-reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance-based.  To the extent that the actual costs incurred in performing a cost-reimbursable contract are within the contract ceiling and allowable under the terms of the contract and applicable regulations, we are entitled to. 10. reimbursement of our costs, plus a profit.  However, if our costs exceed the ceiling or are not allowable under the terms of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to recover those costs.  In particular, there is increasing focus by the U.S. government on the extent to which contractors are able to receive reimbursement for employee compensation.. • Under fixed-price contracts, we perform specific tasks for a fixed price.  Compared to cost-plus contracts, fixed-price contracts generally offer higher margin opportunities, but involve greater financial risk because we bear the impact of cost overruns, which could result in increased costs and expenses.  Because we assume such risk, an increase in the percentage of fixed-price contracts in our contract mix, whether caused by a shift by the U.S. government toward a preference for fixed-price contracts or otherwise, could increase the risk that we suffer losses if we underestimate the level of effort required to perform the contractual obligations.  As we expand our fixed price managed services business, we expect our mix of fixed price work will be increasing over time.. • Under time-and-materials contracts, we are reimbursed for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses.  We assume financial risk on time-and-materials contracts because we assume the risk of performing those contracts at negotiated hourly rates.. Our profits could be adversely affected if our costs under any of these contracts exceed the assumptions we used in bidding for the contract.. U.S. government contracts contain provisions giving government customers a variety of rights that are unfavorable to us, including the ability to terminate a contract at any time for convenience.. U.S. government contracts contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that give the government rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts.  These provisions may allow the government to:. • Terminate existing contracts for convenience, as well as for default;. • Reduce orders under, or otherwise modify, contracts or subcontracts;. • Cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable;. • Decline to exercise an option to renew multi-year contracts or issue task orders in connection with multiple award contracts;. • Suspend or debar us from doing business with the U.S. government or with a government agency;. • Prohibit future procurement awards with a particular agency as a result of a finding of an organizational conflict of interest based upon prior related work performed for the agency that is deemed to give a contractor an unfair advantage over competing contractors;. • Subject the award of contracts to protest by competitors, which may require the contracting federal agency or department to suspend our performance pending the outcome of the protest and may also result in a requirement to resubmit offers for the contract or in the termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract;. • Terminate our facility security clearances and thereby prevent us from receiving classified contracts;. • Claim rights in products and systems produced by us; and. • Control or prohibit the export of our products and services.. If the government terminates a contract for convenience, we may recover only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to the termination.  If the government terminates a contract for default, we may not even recover those amounts, and instead may be liable for excess costs incurred by the government in procuring undelivered items and services from another source.  If one of our government customers were to unexpectedly terminate, cancel or decline to exercise an option to renew one or more of our significant contracts or programs, our revenues and operating results would be materially harmed.. 11. Internal system or service failures, including those resulting from cyber or other security threats, could disrupt our business and impair our ability to effectively provide services to our customers, which could damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We create, implement and maintain IT and engineering systems, and provide services that are often critical to our customers' operations, some of which involve classified or other sensitive information in intelligence, national security and other classified or sensitive customer functions.  We are subject to systems or service failures (both our own failures and the failures of third-party service providers), which may be caused by natural disasters, power shortages or terrorist attacks, as well as from continuous exposure to cyber and other security threats, including computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers and physical break-ins.  We also face a heightened risk of a security breach or disruption due to our custody of classified and other sensitive information.  Many government contractors have already been targeted and these types of attacks are likely to occur in the future.  Attacks on our network or other systems could result in the loss of customer or proprietary data, interruptions or delays in our customers' business, and damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.  In addition, the failure or disruption of our systems, communications or utilities could result in the interruption or suspension of our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. If our systems, services or other applications have significant defects or errors, if we are successfully attacked by cyber or other security threats, or if we suffer delivery delays or otherwise fail to meet our customers' expectations, we may:. • lose revenue due to adverse customer reaction;. • be required to provide additional services to a customer at no charge;. • incur additional costs related to monitoring and increasing our cyber security;. • lose revenue due to the deployment of internal staff for remediation efforts instead of customer assignments;. • receive negative publicity, which could damage our reputation and adversely affect our ability to attract or retain customers;. • be unable to successfully market services that rely on the creation and maintenance of secure IT systems;. • suffer claims for substantial damages, particularly as a result of any successful network or systems breach and exfiltration of customer information; or. • incur significant costs complying with applicable federal or state laws, including laws governing protection of  personal information.. In addition to costs related to contract performance or required corrective action, these failures may result in increased costs or loss of revenues if our customers terminate or reduce the scope of our contracts, or do not renew our contracts as a result of such failures.. Our errors and omissions insurance coverage may not continue to be available on reasonable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims, or the insurer may disclaim coverage as to some types of future claims.  A successful large claim against us could seriously harm our business, and any claim, whether successful or not, may result in significant legal and other costs, may be a distraction to our management and may harm our customer relationships.. Security breaches in customer systems could adversely affect our business.. Many of the programs we support and the systems we develop, install and maintain involve managing and protecting information involved in intelligence, national security and other classified or sensitive customer functions.  Losses from a security breach in one of these systems could cause serious harm to our business, damage our reputation, and impact our eligibility for further work on critical systems for our current customers or for other U.S. government customers generally.  Losses could also exceed the policy limits that we have for errors and omissions and product liability insurance coverage.  Damage to our reputation or limitations on our eligibility for additional work could materially reduce our revenues.. 12. We face risks associated with our international business.. Our business operations are subject to a variety of risks associated with conducting business internationally, including:. • Changes in or interpretations of foreign laws or policies that may adversely affect the performance of our services;. • Political instability in foreign countries;. • Conducting business in places where laws, business practices and customs are unfamiliar, unknown or inconsistent with U.S. requirements;. • Customary business practices and other factors in foreign countries, including requirements to provide up-front performance bonds (guaranteed by a letter of credit from our lender), may involve uncertainties not associated with the business of contracting with the U.S. government, including potential difficulties in collecting receivables and fewer available remedies to the contractor in the event of contract disputes or contract terminations;. • Imposition of limitations on or increase of withholding and other taxes on payments by foreign subsidiaries or joint ventures;. • Currency fluctuations and devaluations and limitations on the conversion of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars; and. • Compliance with a variety of international and U.S. laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and U.S. export control regulations.. These regulatory, geopolitical and other risks could have an adverse effect on our business in the future, particularly if we increase the amount of work that we plan to perform internationally.. Acquisitions could result in operating difficulties, dilution or other adverse consequences to our business.. One of our key operating strategies is to selectively pursue acquisitions.  Our acquisitions strategy poses many risks, including:. • As a result of an acquisition, we may need to record write-downs from future impairments of intangible assets, which could reduce our future reported earnings;. • We may have difficulty retaining an acquired company's key employees, customers or contracts (particularly with respect to awards not made on a full and open basis);. • We may have difficulty integrating acquired businesses, resulting in unforeseen difficulties, such as incompatible accounting, information management or other control systems; and. • Acquisitions may disrupt our business or distract management from other responsibilities.. In connection with any acquisition that we make, there may be liabilities that we fail to discover or that we inadequately assess.  Acquired entities may not operate profitably or result in improved operating performance.  Additionally, we may not realize anticipated synergies.  If our acquisitions perform poorly, our business and financial results could be adversely affected.. If we fail to comply with complex laws and procurement regulations, we could lose business and be liable for various penalties or sanctions.. We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts.  These laws and regulations affect how we conduct business with our U.S. government customers.  In complying with these laws and regulations, we may incur additional costs.  Non-compliance could result in the imposition of fines and penalties, including contractual damages.. Among the more significant laws and regulations affecting our business are the following:. • The Federal Acquisition Regulation and the Defense Federal Acquisitions Regulation, which comprehensively regulates the formation, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts;. 13. • Truthful Cost or Pricing Data, which requires certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations;. • The Cost Accounting Standards and Cost Principles, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based U.S. government contracts;. • Laws, regulations and executive orders restricting the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the export of certain products, services and technical data;. • U.S. export controls, which apply when we engage in international work; and. • The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations can lead to severe penalties, both civil and criminal, and can include suspension or debarment from contracting with the U.S. government.. Our contracting agency customers periodically review our compliance with laws and procurement regulations, as well as our performance under the terms of our U.S. government contracts.  If a government review or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties or administrative sanctions, including the termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, the triggering of price reduction clauses, suspension of payments, fines and the suspension or debarment from doing business with federal government agencies.. Additionally, the False Claims Act provides for substantial damages and penalties where, for example, a contractor presents a false or fraudulent claim to the government for payment or approval.  Actions under the False Claims Act may be brought by the government or by individuals on behalf of the government (who may then share a portion of any recovery).. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we may also suffer harm to our reputation, which could impair our ability to win awards of contracts in the future or receive renewals of existing contracts.  If we are subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions or suffer harm to our reputation, our current business, future prospects, financial condition or operating results could be materially harmed.. Unfavorable U.S. government audits or results of other investigations could subject us to penalties or sanctions, adversely affect our profitability, harm our reputation and relationships with our customers or impair our ability to win new contracts.. The Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA), Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA) and other government agencies routinely audit and investigate government contracts and contractor systems.  These agencies review our contract performance, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards.  The DCAA and DCMA also review the adequacy of, and compliance with, internal control systems and policies, including accounting, purchasing, estimating, compensation and management information systems.  Allegations of impropriety or deficient controls could harm our reputation or influence the award of new contracts.  Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, while such costs already reimbursed must be refunded.  If any of our internal control systems or policies is found to be non-compliant or inadequate, payments may be withheld or suspended under our contracts, or we may be subject to increased government scrutiny and approval requirements that could delay or adversely affect our ability to invoice and receive timely payment for services we perform on our contracts.  Adverse findings by DCAA or DCMA may also impair our ability to compete for and win new contracts with the U.S. government.  As a result, a DCAA or DCMA audit could materially affect our competitive position and result in a substantial adjustment to our revenues and adversely affect our profitability.. Goodwill represents a significant asset on our balance sheet, and changes in future business conditions could cause these investments to become impaired, requiring substantial write-downs that would reduce our operating income.. As of December 31, 2017, our goodwill was $1.1 billion.  The amount of our recorded goodwill may substantially increase in the future as a result of any acquisitions that we make.  We evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill amounts annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists.  Impairment analysis is based on several factors requiring judgment and the use of estimates, which are inherently uncertain and based on assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate.  Additionally, material changes in our financial outlook, as well as events outside of our control, such as deteriorating market conditions for companies in our industry, may indicate a potential impairment.  When there is an impairment, we are required to write down the recorded amount of goodwill, which is reflected as a charge against operating income.. 14. Our failure to maintain strong relationships with other contractors, or the failure of other contractors with whom we have entered into a subcontract or prime contract relationship to meet their contractual obligations to us or our clients, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. As a prime contractor, we often rely on other companies to perform some of the work under a contract, and we expect to continue to depend on relationships with other contractors for portions of our delivery of services and revenue for the foreseeable future.  There is a risk that we may have disputes with our subcontractors regarding a variety of issues, including the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, client concerns about the subcontractor, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract, or our hiring of the subcontractor's personnel. In addition, if any of our subcontractors fail to deliver supplies or perform services on a timely basis, our ability to fulfill our obligations as a prime contractor may be jeopardized and could result in our customer terminating our prime contract for default. A termination for default could expose us to liability and have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders.. We derive a portion of our revenues from contracts where we are a subcontractor to other companies that have contracted directly with the end customer.  As a subcontractor, we often lack control over whether the terms of the prime contract are being satisfied.  Poor performance on such contracts could impact our reputation, even if we perform as required.  In addition, as a subcontractor, we may be unable to collect payments owed to us by the prime contractor, even if we have performed our obligations, if the prime contractor has failed to satisfy the terms of the prime contract.. We occasionally enter into joint ventures with other companies to jointly bid on and perform a particular project.  The success of our joint ventures typically depends on the satisfactory performance of contractual obligations by our joint venture partners.  If our partners do not meet their obligations, our joint ventures may be unable to adequately perform and deliver the contracted services.  Under these circumstances, we may be required to make additional investments and provide additional services to ensure the adequate performance and delivery of the contracted services.  These additional obligations could result in reduced profits or, in some cases, significant losses for us with respect to the joint venture, and could also adversely affect our reputation.. Our business operations in foreign countries involve considerable risks and hazards.  An accident or incident involving our employees or third parties could harm our reputation, affect our ability to compete for business, and if not adequately insured or indemnified, adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We provide services in foreign countries that may be experiencing political unrest, war or terrorism.  In these deployments, we are exposed to the risk of liabilities arising from accidents or incidents involving our employees or third parties.  Accidents or incidents could involve significant injury or other claims by employees or third parties.  We may encounter unexpected costs in connection with additional risks inherent to such deployments, such as increased insurance costs, as well as the repatriation of our employees or executives for reasons beyond our control.. We maintain insurance policies that mitigate risk and potential liabilities related to our foreign operations.  Substantial claims in excess of our insurance coverage could adversely affect our operating performance and may result in additional expenses and possible loss of revenues.  Even fully insured claims may result in negative publicity that could adversely affect our reputation among our customers and the public, which could cause us to lose existing and future contracts, make it more difficult to compete effectively for future contracts, and result in additional expenses and possible loss of revenues.. Covenants in the instruments governing our revolving credit facility may restrict our financial and operating flexibility.. We maintain a credit agreement with a syndicate of lenders led by Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent.  The credit agreement provides for a $500 million revolving credit facility.  The maturity date for the credit agreement is August 17, 2022.  The credit agreement requires us to comply with specified financial covenants, including the maintenance of certain consolidated total leverage ratios and a certain fixed charge coverage ratio, and contains negative covenants that, among other things, may limit or impose restrictions on the ability of us to incur additional indebtedness, make investments, make acquisitions and undertake certain other actions.  Additionally, an event of default under the credit agreement could result in our creditors exercising rights that could have a material adverse effect on our business.. 15. Risks Related to Our Stock. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate.. Our quarterly revenues and operating results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control.  For these reasons, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may be of limited significance in some cases, and as such, you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance.  In addition to the risk factors already identified in this section of our Form 10-K, a number of additional factors could cause our revenues, cash flows and operating results to vary from quarter-to-quarter, including:. • Fluctuations in revenues earned on fixed-price contracts and contracts with a performance-based fee structure;. • Commencement, completion or termination of contracts during any particular quarter;. • Timing of significant bid and proposal costs;. • Variable purchasing patterns under government contracts, blanket purchase agreements and ID/IQ contracts;. • Seasonal or quarterly fluctuations in our workdays and staff utilization rates;. • Strategic decisions, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs and joint ventures; and. • Changes in the volume of purchase requests from customers for equipment and materials.. Because a relatively large amount of our expenses are fixed, cash flows from our operations may vary significantly as a result of changes in the level of services we provide under existing contracts and the number of contracts that are commenced, completed or terminated during any quarter.  Depending on the nature of the contract, we may incur significant operating expenses during the start-up and early stages of large contracts, and in such cases we typically do not receive corresponding payments from the customer in that same quarter.  We may also incur significant or unanticipated expenses when a contract expires, terminates or is not renewed.. We may change our dividend policy in the future.. We have maintained a regular cash dividend program since 2011.  We anticipate continuing to pay quarterly dividends during 2018.  However, any future payment of dividends, including the timing and amount of any such dividends, is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and may depend upon our earnings, liquidity, financial condition, alternate capital deployment opportunities, or any other factors that our Board of Directors considers relevant.  A change in our regular cash dividend program could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. Mr. Pedersen, our Executive Chairman and Chairman of the Board, effectively controls us, and his interests may not be aligned with those of other stockholders.. As of December 31, 2017, Mr. Pedersen owned approximately 34% of our total outstanding shares of common stock.  Holders of our Class B common stock are entitled to ten votes per share, while holders of our Class A common stock are entitled to only one vote per share.  Mr. Pedersen beneficially owned 13,189,245 shares of Class B common stock as of December 31, 2017; thus he controlled approximately 84% of the combined voting power of our stock as of December 31, 2017.  Accordingly, Mr. Pedersen controls the vote on substantially all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders.  As long as Mr. Pedersen beneficially owns a majority of the combined voting power of our common stock, he will have the ability, without the consent of our public stockholders, to elect all members of our Board of Directors and to control our management and affairs.. Mr. Pedersen's voting control may have the effect of preventing or discouraging transactions involving an actual or a potential change of control of us, regardless of whether a premium is offered over then-current market prices.  Mr. Pedersen will be able to cause a change of control of us.  Mr. Pedersen's voting control could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock if investors perceive disadvantages in owning stock in a company with such concentrated ownership.. Mr. Pedersen could also cause a registration statement to be filed and to become effective under the Securities Act of 1933, thereby permitting him to freely sell or transfer the shares of common stock that he owns, which could adversely affect the trading price of our stock.. 16. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit potential acquisition bids that you and other stockholders may consider favorable, and the market price of our Class A common stock may be lower as a result.. There are provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws that make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or attempt to acquire, control of us, even if a change of control were considered favorable by you and other stockholders.  Among the provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect, are provisions relating to the following:. • The high vote nature of our Class B common stock;. • The ability of the Board of Directors to issue preferred stock;. • The inability of stockholders to take action by written consent; and. • The advance notice requirements for director nominations or other proposals submitted by our stockholders."
