[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. We are subject to various risks and uncertainties in the course of our business.  The following summarizes significant risks and uncertainties that may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.  When considering an investment in our securities, you should carefully consider the risk factors included below as well as those matters referenced in the foregoing pages under \"Disclosures Regarding Forward-Looking Statements\" and other information included and incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. A substantial decline in crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas prices would reduce our operating results and cash flows and could adversely impact our future rate of growth and the carrying value of our assets.. The markets for crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future, causing prices to fluctuate widely.  Our revenues, operating results and future rate of growth are highly dependent on the prices we receive for our crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas.  Many of the factors influencing prices of crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas are beyond our control.  These factors include:. • worldwide and domestic supplies of and demand for crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas;. • the cost of exploring for, developing and producing crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas;. • the ability of the members of OPEC and certain non-OPEC members, such as Russia, to agree to and maintain production controls;. • the production levels of non-OPEC countries, including production levels in the shale plays in the United States;. • the level of drilling, completion and production activities by other exploration and production companies, and variability therein, in response to market conditions;. • political instability or armed conflict in oil and natural gas producing regions;. • changes in weather patterns and climate;. • natural disasters such as hurricanes and tornadoes;. • the price and availability of alternative and competing forms of energy;. • the effect of conservation efforts;. • epidemics or pandemics;. • technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply;. • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; and. • general economic conditions worldwide.. The long-term effects of these and other factors on the prices of crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas are uncertain.  Historical declines in commodity prices have adversely affected our business by:. • reducing the amount of crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas that we can produce economically;. • reducing our revenues, operating income and cash flows;. • causing us to reduce our capital expenditures, and delay or postpone some of our capital projects;. • requiring us to impair the carrying value of our assets;. • reducing the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas; and. • increasing the costs of obtaining capital, such as equity and short- and long-term debt.. Estimates of crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas reserves depend on many factors and assumptions, including various assumptions that are based on conditions in existence as of the dates of the estimates.  Any material changes in those conditions or other factors affecting those assumptions could impair the quantity and value of our reserves.. The proved reserve information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K has been derived from engineering and geoscience estimates. Estimates of crude oil and condensate, NGLs, natural gas and our historical synthetic crude oil reserves were prepared, in accordance with SEC regulations, by our in-house teams of reservoir engineers and geoscience professionals and were reviewed and approved by our Corporate Reserves Group and third-party consultants.  Prior to 2016, the synthetic. 16. crude oil reserves estimates, included in discontinued operations, were prepared by GLJ, a third-party consulting firm experienced in working with oil sands.  Reserves were valued based on SEC pricing for the periods ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, as well as other conditions in existence at those dates.  The table below provides the 2017 SEC pricing for certain benchmark prices:  SEC Pricing 2017  WTI Crude oil (per bbl) $ 51.34   Henry Hub natural gas (per mmbtu) $ 2.98   Brent crude oil (per bbl) $ 54.39   Mont Belvieu NGLs (per bbl) $ 22.03. If commodity prices were to decrease by approximately 10% below average prices used to estimate 2017 proved reserves (see table above), we would not expect price related reserve revisions to have a material impact on proved reserve volumes.  Future reserve revisions could also result from changes in capital funding, drilling plans and governmental regulation, among other things.. Reserve estimation is a subjective process that involves estimating volumes to be recovered from underground accumulations of crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas that cannot be directly measured.  Estimates of economically producible reserves and of future net cash flows depend on a number of variable factors and assumptions, including:. • location, size and shape of the accumulation as well as fluid, rock and producing characteristics of the accumulation;. • historical production from the area, compared with production from other analogous producing areas;. • the assumed impacts of regulation by governmental agencies;. • assumptions concerning future operating costs, taxes, development costs and workover and repair costs; and. • industry economic conditions, levels of cash flows from operations and other operating considerations.. As a result, different petroleum engineers and geoscientists, each using industry-accepted geologic and engineering practices and scientific methods, may produce different estimates of proved reserves and future net cash flows based on the same available data.  Because of the subjective nature of such reserve estimates, each of the following items may differ materially from the estimated amounts:. • the amount and timing of production;. • the revenues and costs associated with that production; and. • the amount and timing of future development expenditures.. If we are unsuccessful in acquiring or finding additional reserves, our future crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas production would decline, thereby reducing our cash flows and results of operations and impairing our financial condition.. The rate of production from crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas properties generally declines as reserves are depleted.  Except to the extent we acquire interests in additional properties containing proved reserves, conduct successful exploration and development activities or, through engineering studies, optimize production performance or identify additional reservoirs not currently producing or secondary recovery reserves, our proved reserves will decline materially as crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas are produced.  Accordingly, to the extent we are not successful in replacing the crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas we produce, our future revenues will decline.  Creating and maintaining an inventory of prospects for future production depends on many factors, including:. • obtaining rights to explore for, develop and produce crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas in promising areas;. • drilling success;. • the ability to complete projects timely and cost effectively;. • the ability to find or acquire additional proved reserves at acceptable costs; and. • the ability to fund such activity.. 17. Future exploration and drilling results are uncertain and involve substantial costs.. Drilling for crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas involves numerous risks, including the risk that we may not encounter commercially productive reservoirs.  The costs of drilling, completing and operating wells are often uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including:. • unexpected drilling conditions;. • title problems;. • pressure or irregularities in formations;. • equipment failures or accidents;. • inflation in exploration and drilling costs;. • fires, explosions, blowouts or surface cratering;. • lack of access to pipelines or other transportation methods; and. • shortages or delays in the availability of services or delivery of equipment.. If crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas prices decrease, it could adversely affect the abilities of our counterparties to perform their obligations to us, including abandonment obligations, which could negatively impact our financial results.. We often enter into arrangements to conduct certain business operations, such as oil and gas exploration and production, or transportation of crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas, with partners and other counterparties in order to share risks associated with those operations. In addition, we market our products to a variety of purchasers. If commodity prices decrease, some of our counterparties may experience liquidity problems and may not be able to meet their financial and other obligations, including abandonment obligations, to us. The inability of our joint venture partners to fund their portion of the costs under our joint venture agreements, or the nonperformance by purchasers, contractors or other counterparties of their obligations to us, could negatively impact our operating results and cash flows.. If we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs and in a timely manner, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. Delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs involving drilling and completion activities, engineering, procurement and construction of facilities (including improvements and repairs to our existing facilities) could adversely affect our ability to achieve forecasted internal rates of return and operating results.  Delays in making required changes or upgrades to our facilities could subject us to fines or penalties as well as affect our ability to supply certain products we produce.  Such delays or cost increases may arise as a result of unpredictable factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:. • denial of or delay in receiving requisite regulatory approvals and/or permits;. • unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor;. • disruptions in transportation of components or construction materials;. • increased costs or operational delays resulting from shortages of water;. • adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires or spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors or suppliers;. • shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages;. • market-related increases in a project's debt or equity financing costs; and. • nonperformance by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors or subcontractors.. Any one or more of these factors could have a significant impact on our capital projects.. Our offshore operations involve special risks that could negatively impact us.. Offshore operations present technological challenges and operating risks because of the marine environment.  Activities in deepwater areas may pose incrementally greater risks because of water depths that limit intervention capability and the physical distance to oilfield service infrastructure and service providers.  Environmental remediation and other costs resulting from spills or releases may result in substantial liabilities.. 18. We may incur substantial capital expenditures and operating costs as a result of compliance with and changes in environmental, health, safety and security laws and regulations, and, as a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. Our businesses are subject to numerous laws, regulations and other requirements relating to the protection of the environment, including those relating to the discharge of materials into the environment such as the venting or flaring of natural gas, waste management, pollution prevention, greenhouse gas emissions and the protection of endangered species as well as laws, regulations, and other requirements relating to public and employee safety and health and to facility security.  We have incurred and may continue to incur capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of these laws, regulations, and other requirements.  To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products, our operating results will be adversely affected.  The specific impact of these laws, regulations, and other requirements may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of operating facilities and production processes.  We may also be required to make material expenditures to modify operations, install pollution control equipment, perform site clean-ups or curtail operations that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  We may become subject to liabilities that we currently do not anticipate in connection with new, amended or more stringent requirements, stricter interpretations of existing requirements or the future discovery of contamination.  In addition, any failure by us to comply with existing or future laws, regulations, and other requirements could result in civil penalties or criminal fines and other enforcement actions against us.. We believe it is likely that the scientific and political attention to issues concerning the extent, causes of and responsibility for climate change will continue, with the potential for further regulations that could affect our operations.  Our operations result in greenhouse gas emissions. Currently, various legislative or regulatory measures to address greenhouse gas emissions (including carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxides) are in various phases of review, discussion or implementation in countries where we operate, including the U.S. and the European Union.  Internationally, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change finalized an agreement among 195 nations at the 21st Conference of the Parties in Paris with an overarching goal of preventing global temperatures from rising more than 2 degrees Celsius. The agreement includes provisions that every country take some action to lower emissions, but there is no legal requirement for how or by what amount emissions should be lowered. The EPA has also finalized regulations targeting new sources of methane emissions from the oil and gas industry. Finalization of new legislation, regulations or international agreements in the future could result in increased costs to operate and maintain our facilities, capital expenditures to install new emission controls at our facilities, and costs to administer and manage any potential greenhouse gas emissions or carbon trading or tax programs.  These costs and capital expenditures could be material.  Although uncertain, these developments could increase our costs, reduce the demand for crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas, and create delays in our obtaining air pollution permits for new or modified facilities.. The potential adoption of federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives related to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased compliance costs, operating restrictions or delays in the completion of oil and gas wells.. Hydraulic fracturing is a commonly used process that involves injecting water, sand, and small volumes of chemicals into the wellbore to fracture the hydrocarbon-bearing rock thousands of feet below the surface to facilitate higher flow of hydrocarbons into the wellbore. Our business uses this technique extensively throughout our U.S. operations.  Hydraulic fracturing has been regulated at the state and local level through permitting and compliance requirements.   Various state and local-level initiatives in regions with substantial shale resources have been or may be proposed or implemented to further regulate hydraulic fracturing practices, limit water withdrawals and water use, require disclosure of fracturing fluid constituents, restrict which additives may be used, or implement temporary or permanent bans on hydraulic fracturing.  In 2015 the BLM issued a rule governing certain hydraulic fracturing practices on lands within their jurisdiction; however, this rule was rescinded in December 2017.. Increased regulation and attention given to the hydraulic fracturing process could lead to greater opposition, including litigation, to oil and gas activities using hydraulic fracturing techniques. Additional legislation or regulation could also lead to operational delays or increased operating costs in the production of crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas, including from the shale plays, or could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing. The adoption of any federal, state or local laws or the implementation of regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing could potentially cause a decrease in the completion of new oil and gas wells and increased compliance costs which could increase costs of our operations and cause considerable delays in acquiring regulatory approvals to drill and complete wells.. The potential adoption of federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives intended to address potential induced seismic activity in the areas in which we operate could result in increased compliance costs, operating restrictions or delays in the completion of oil and gas wells.. 19. State and federal regulatory agencies recently have focused on a possible connection between the operation of injection wells used for oil and gas waste disposal and seismic activity.  When caused by human activity, such events are called induced seismicity.  Separate and apart from the referenced potential connection between injection wells and seismicity, concerns have been raised that hydraulic fracturing activities may be correlated to anomalous seismic events.  Marathon uses hydraulic fracturing techniques throughout its U.S. operations.. While the scientific community and regulatory agencies at all levels are continuing to study the possible linkage between oil and gas activity and induced seismicity,  some state regulatory agencies have modified their regulations or guidance to mitigate potential causes of induced seismicity.  For example, Oklahoma has taken numerous regulatory actions in response to concerns related to the operation of produced water disposal wells and induced seismicity, and has issued guidelines to operators in certain areas of the State curtailing injection of produced water due to seismic concerns.  Marathon does not currently own or operate injection wells or contract for such services in these areas.  Further, Oklahoma recently issued guidelines to operators for management of anomalous seismicity that may be related to hydraulic fracturing activities in the SCOOP/STACK area.  In addition, a number of lawsuits have been filed in Oklahoma alleging damage from seismicity relating to disposal well operations.  Marathon has not been named in any of those lawsuits.. Increased seismicity in Oklahoma or other areas could result in additional regulation and restrictions on our operations and could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs.  Additional regulation and attention given to induced seismicity could also lead to greater opposition, including litigation, to oil and gas activities.. Worldwide political and economic developments and changes in law or policy could adversely affect our operations and materially reduce our profitability and cash flows.. Local political and economic factors in global markets could have a material adverse effect on us.  A total of  38% of our crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas related to continuing operations in 2017 was derived from production outside the U.S. and 30% of our proved reserves of crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas as of December 31, 2017 were located outside the U.S.  We are, therefore, subject to the political, geographic and economic risks and possible terrorist activities or other armed conflict attendant to doing business within or outside of the U.S.  There are many risks associated with operations in countries such as E.G., Gabon, the Kurdistan Region of Iraq and Libya, and in global markets including:. • changes in governmental policies relating to crude oil and condensate, NGLs or natural gas and taxation;. • other political, economic or diplomatic developments and international monetary fluctuations;. • political and economic instability, war, acts of terrorism, armed conflict and civil disturbances;. • the possibility that a government may seize our property with or without compensation, may attempt to renegotiate or revoke existing contractual arrangements or may impose additional taxes or royalty burdens; and. • fluctuating currency values, hard currency shortages and currency controls.. For the past several years, there have been varying degrees of political instability and public protests, including demonstrations which have been marked by violence and numerous incidences of terrorist acts, within some countries in the Middle East and Africa.  Some political regimes in these countries are threatened or have changed as a result of such unrest.. If such unrest continues to spread, conflicts could result in civil wars, regional conflicts, and regime changes resulting in governments that are hostile to the U.S.  These may have the following results, among others:. • volatility in global crude oil prices which could negatively impact the global economy, resulting in slower economic growth rates and reduced demand for our products;. • negative impact on the world crude oil supply if transportation avenues are disrupted;. • security concerns leading to the prolonged evacuation of our personnel;. • damage to, or the inability to access, production facilities or other operating assets; and. • inability of our service and equipment providers to deliver items necessary for us to conduct our operations.. Continued hostilities in the Middle East and Africa and the occurrence or threat of future terrorist attacks, or other armed conflict, could adversely affect the economies of the U.S. and other developed countries.  A lower level of economic activity could result in a decline in energy consumption, which could cause our revenues and margins to decline and limit our future growth prospects.  These risks could lead to increased volatility in prices for crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas.  In addition, these risks could increase instability in the financial and insurance markets and make it more difficult for us to access capital and to obtain the insurance coverage that we consider adequate.. 20. Actions of governments through tax legislation or interpretations of tax law, and other changes in law, executive order and commercial restrictions could reduce our operating profitability, both in the U.S. and abroad. The U.S. government can prevent or restrict us from doing business in foreign countries. These restrictions and those of foreign governments have in the past limited our ability to operate in, or gain access to, opportunities in various countries and will continue to do so in the future. Changes in law could also adversely affect our results, including new regulations resulting in higher costs to transport our production by pipeline, rail car, truck or vessel or the adoption of government payment transparency regulations that could require us to disclose competitively sensitive commercial information or that could cause us to violate the non-disclosure laws of other countries.. Our level of indebtedness may limit our liquidity and financial flexibility.. As of December 31, 2017, our total debt was $5.5 billion, with no debt due within the next 24 months. Our indebtedness could have important consequences to our business, including, but not limited to, the following:. • we may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • a portion of our cash flows from operating activities must be used to service our indebtedness and is not available for other purposes;. • our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our industry may be limited;. • a financial covenant in our Credit Agreement stipulates that our total debt to capitalization ratio will not exceed 65% as of the last day of any fiscal quarter, and if exceeded, may make additional borrowings more expensive and affect our ability to plan for and react to changes in the economy and our industry;. • we may be at a competitive disadvantage as compared to similar companies that have less debt; and. • additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or development activities, general corporate or other purposes may have higher costs and more restrictive covenants.. We may incur additional debt in order to fund our capital expenditures, acquisitions or development activities, or for general corporate or other purposes. A higher level of indebtedness increases the risk that our financial flexibility may deteriorate. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and service our debt depends on future performance. General economic conditions, crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas prices, and financial, business and other factors will affect our operations and our future performance. Many of these factors are beyond our control and we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay the interest on our debt, and future working capital, borrowings and equity financing may not be available to pay or refinance such debt. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  -  Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of debt obligations.. A downgrade in our credit rating could negatively impact our cost of and ability to access capital, which could adversely affect our business.. We receive debt ratings from the major credit rating agencies in the United States.  Due to the decline in crude oil and U.S. natural gas prices in recent years, credit rating agencies reviewed companies in the energy industry, including us.  At December 31, 2017, our corporate credit ratings were: Standard & Poor's Global Ratings Services BBB- (stable); Fitch Ratings BBB (stable); and Moody's Investor Services, Inc. Ba1 (stable).  The credit rating process is contingent upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. A downgrade of our credit ratings could negatively impact our cost of capital and our ability to access the capital markets, increase the interest rate and fees we pay on our revolving credit facility, and may limit or reduce credit lines with our bank counterparties. We could also be required to post letters of credit or other forms of collateral for certain contractual obligations, which could increase our costs and decrease our liquidity or letter of credit capacity under our unsecured revolving credit facility. Limitations on our ability to access capital could adversely impact the level of our capital spending program, our ability to manage our debt maturities, or our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions.. 21. Our commodity price risk management activities may prevent us from fully benefiting from commodity price increases and may expose us to other risks, including counterparty risk.. Global commodity prices are volatile.  In order to mitigate commodity price volatility and increase the predictability of cash flows related to the marketing of our crude oil and natural gas, we, from time to time, enter into crude oil and natural gas hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of our expected production.  While hedging arrangements are intended to mitigate commodity price volatility, we may be prevented from fully realizing the benefits of price increases above the price levels of the derivative instruments used to manage price risk.  In addition, our hedging arrangements may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which the counterparties to our hedging contracts fail to perform under the contracts.  See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.. Our business could be negatively impacted by cyberattacks targeting our computer and telecommunications systems and infrastructure, or targeting those of our third-party service providers.. Our business, like other companies in the oil and gas industry, has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies, including technologies that are managed by third-party service providers on whom we rely to help us collect, host or process information. Such technologies are integrated into our business operations and used as a part of our production and distribution systems in the U.S. and abroad, including those systems used to transport production to market, to enable communications, and to provide a host of other support services for our business.  Use of the internet and other public networks for communications, services, and storage, including \"cloud\" computing, exposes all users (including our business) to cybersecurity risks.. While we and our third-party service providers commit resources to the design, implementation, and monitoring of our information systems, there is no guarantee that our security measures will provide absolute security.  Despite these security measures, we may not be able to anticipate, detect, or prevent cyberattacks, particularly because the methodologies used by attackers change frequently or may not be recognized until launched, and because attackers are increasingly using techniques designed to circumvent controls and avoid detection.  We and our third-party service providers may therefore be vulnerable to security events that are beyond our control, and we may be the target of cyber-attacks, as well as physical attacks, which could result in information security breaches and significant disruption to our business.  Our information systems and related infrastructure have experienced attempted and actual minor breaches of our cybersecurity in the past, but we have not suffered any losses or breaches which had a material effect on our business, operations or reputation relating to such attacks; however, there is no assurance that we will not suffer such losses or breaches in the future.. As cyberattacks continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to respond to cyberattacks, to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures, or to investigate and remediate any information systems and related infrastructure security vulnerabilities.  We may also be subject to regulatory investigations or litigation relating from cybersecurity issues.. Our operations may be adversely affected by pipeline, rail and other transportation capacity constraints.. The marketability of our production depends in part on the availability, proximity, and capacity of pipeline facilities, rail cars, trucks and vessels. If any pipelines, rail cars, trucks or vessels become unavailable, we would, to the extent possible, be required to find a suitable alternative to transport our crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas, which could increase the costs and/or reduce the revenues we might obtain from the sale of our production. Both the cost and availability of pipelines, rail cars, trucks, or vessels to transport our crude oil could be adversely impacted by new and expected state or federal regulations relating to transportation of crude oil.. If we acquire crude oil and natural gas properties, our failure to fully identify existing and potential problems, to accurately estimate reserves, production rates or costs, or to effectively integrate the acquired properties into our operations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We typically seek the acquisition of crude oil and natural gas properties and leases.  Although we perform reviews of properties to be acquired in a manner that we believe is diligent and consistent with industry practices, reviews of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor may they permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties in order to fully assess possible deficiencies and potential problems.  Even when problems with a property are identified, we often assume environmental and other risks and liabilities in connection with acquired properties pursuant to the acquisition agreements.  Moreover, there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of crude oil and natural gas (as previously discussed), actual future production rates and associated costs with respect to acquired properties.  Actual reserves, production rates and costs may vary substantially from those assumed in our estimates.  In addition, an acquisition may have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations, particularly during the periods in which the operations of the acquired properties are being integrated into our ongoing operations or if we are unable to effectively integrate the acquired properties into our ongoing operations.. 22. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and many of our competitors are larger and have available resources in excess of our own.. The oil and gas industry is highly competitive, and many competitors, including major integrated and independent oil and gas companies, as well as national oil companies, are larger and have substantially greater resources at their disposal than we do.  We compete with these companies for the acquisition of oil and natural gas leases and other properties.  We also compete with these companies for equipment and personnel, including petroleum engineers, geologists, geophysicists and other specialists, required to develop and operate those properties and in the marketing of crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas to end-users.  Such competition can significantly increase costs and affect the availability of resources, which could provide our larger competitors a competitive advantage when acquiring equipment, leases and other properties.  They may also be able to use their greater resources to attract and retain experienced personnel.. Many of our major projects and operations are conducted with partners, which may decrease our ability to manage risk.. We often enter into arrangements to conduct certain business operations, such as oil and gas exploration and production with partners in order to share risks associated with those operations.  However, these arrangements also may decrease our ability to manage risks and costs, particularly where we are not the operator.  We could have limited influence over and control of the behaviors and performance of these operations.  In addition, misconduct, fraud, noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations or improper activities by or on behalf of one or more of our partners could have a significant negative impact on our business and reputation.. Our operations are subject to business interruptions and casualty losses. We do not insure against all potential losses and therefore we could be seriously harmed by unexpected liabilities and increased costs.. Our United States E&P and International E&P operations are subject to unplanned occurrences, including blowouts, explosions, fires, loss of well control, spills, tornadoes, hurricanes and other adverse weather, tsunamis, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions or nuclear or other disasters, labor disputes and accidents. These same risks can be applied to the third-parties which transport our products from our facilities. A prolonged disruption in the ability of any pipelines, rail cars, trucks, or vessels to transport our production could contribute to a business interruption or increase costs.. Our operations are also subject to the additional hazards of pollution, releases of toxic gas and other environmental hazards and risks.  These hazards could result in serious personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property and equipment, environmental pollution, impairment of operations and substantial losses to us.  Various hazards have adversely affected us in the past, and damages resulting from a catastrophic occurrence in the future involving us or any of our assets or operations may result in our being named as a defendant in one or more lawsuits asserting potentially large claims or in our being assessed potentially substantial fines by governmental authorities.  We maintain insurance against many, but not all, potential losses or liabilities arising from operating hazards in amounts that we believe to be prudent.  Uninsured losses and liabilities arising from operating hazards could reduce the funds available to us for capital, exploration and investment spending and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  Historically, we have maintained insurance coverage for physical damage including at times resulting business interruption to our major onshore and offshore facilities, with significant self-insured retentions.  In the future, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates.  As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for our insurance policies will change over time and could escalate.  In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage.  For example, due to historical hurricane activity, the availability of insurance coverage for windstorms has changed and, in some instances, it is uneconomical.  As a result, our exposure to losses from future windstorm activity has increased.. Litigation by private plaintiffs or government officials or entities could adversely affect our performance.. We currently are defending litigation and anticipate that we will be required to defend new litigation in the future.  The subject matter of such litigation may include releases of hazardous substances from our facilities, privacy laws, contract disputes, royalty disputes or any other laws or regulations that apply to our operations.  In some cases the plaintiff or plaintiffs seek alleged damages involving large classes of potential litigants, and may allege damages relating to extended periods of time or other alleged facts and circumstances.  If we are not able to successfully defend such claims, they may result in substantial liability.  We do not have insurance covering all of these potential liabilities.  In addition to substantial liability, litigation may also seek injunctive relief which could have an adverse effect on our future operations.. For instance, government entities have filed lawsuits in California and New York seeking to hold a wide variety of companies that produce fossil fuels liable for the alleged impacts of the greenhouse gas emissions attributable to those fuels. The lawsuits allege damages as a result of global warming and the plaintiffs are seeking unspecified damages and abatement under various tort theories. Marathon Oil has been named as a defendant in six of these lawsuits in California, along with numerous other companies.  Similar lawsuits may be filed in other jurisdictions.  The ultimate outcome and impact to us cannot. 23. be predicted with certainty, and we could incur substantial legal costs associated with defending these and similar lawsuits in the future.. In connection with our separation from MPC, MPC agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities.  However, there can be no assurance that the indemnity will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that MPC's ability to satisfy its indemnification obligations will not be impaired in the future.. Pursuant to the Separation and Distribution Agreement and the Tax Sharing Agreement we entered into with MPC in connection with the spin-off, MPC agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities.  However, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that MPC agreed to retain or assume, and there can be no assurance that the indemnification from MPC will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that MPC will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations.  In addition, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from MPC any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves.. The spin-off could result in substantial tax liability.. We obtained a private letter ruling from the IRS substantially to the effect that the distribution of shares of MPC common stock in the spin-off qualified as tax free to MPC, us and our stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368 and related provisions of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\").  If the factual assumptions or representations made in the request for the private letter ruling prove to have been inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, then we will not be able to rely on the ruling.  Furthermore, the IRS does not rule on whether a distribution such as the spin-off satisfies certain requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code.  Rather, the private letter ruling was based on representations by us that those requirements were satisfied, and any inaccuracy in those representations could invalidate the ruling.  In connection with the spin-off, we also obtained an opinion of outside counsel, substantially to the effect that, the distribution of shares of MPC common stock in the spin-off qualified as tax free to MPC, us and our stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368 and related provisions of the Code.  The opinion relied on, among other things, the continuing validity of the private letter ruling and various assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by MPC and us which, if inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by such counsel in its opinion.  The opinion is not binding on the IRS or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the IRS or the courts would not challenge the conclusions stated in the opinion or that any such challenge would not prevail.. If, notwithstanding receipt of the private letter ruling and opinion of counsel, the spin-off were determined not to qualify under Section 355 of the Code, each U.S. holder of our common stock who received shares of MPC common stock in the spin-off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares of MPC common stock received.  That distribution would be taxable to each such stockholder as a dividend to the extent of our accumulated earnings and profits as of the effective date of the spin-off.  For each such stockholder, any amount that exceeded those earnings and profits would be treated first as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of such stockholder's tax basis in its shares of our common stock with any remaining amount being taxed as a capital gain.  We would be subject to tax as if we had sold all the outstanding shares of MPC common stock in a taxable sale for their fair market value and would recognize taxable gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of such shares over our tax basis in such shares.. Under the terms of the Tax Sharing Agreement we entered into with MPC in connection with the spin-off, MPC is generally responsible for any taxes imposed on MPC or us and our subsidiaries in the event that the spin-off and/or certain related transactions were to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment as a result of actions taken, or breaches of representations and warranties made in the Tax Sharing Agreement, by MPC or any of its affiliates.  However, if the spin-off and/or certain related transactions were to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment because of actions or failures to act by us or any of our affiliates, we would be responsible for all such taxes.. We may issue preferred stock whose terms could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of Marathon Oil common stock.. Our restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such preferences, powers and relative, participating, optional and other rights, including preferences over Marathon Oil common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our Board of Directors generally may determine.  The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of Marathon Oil common stock.  For example, we could grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions.  Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock.. 24"
