[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. An investment in our Class B common stock involves various risks, including those mentioned below and those that are discussed from time to time in our other periodic filings with the SEC. Investors should carefully consider these risks, along with the other information contained in this report, before making an investment decision regarding our stock. There may be additional risks of which we are currently unaware, or which we currently consider immaterial. All of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and the value of our stock.. Risks Relating to Our Company. We have largely incurred net losses since our inception, and we may incur net losses in the foreseeable future.. We had an accumulated deficit of $253.7 million as of December 31, 2017. Our net expenses may increase based on the initiatives we undertake which for instance, may include increasing our sales and marketing activities, hiring additional personnel, incurring additional costs as a result of being a public company, acquiring additional businesses and making additional equity grants to our employees. This may result in the reduction of our cash balances or the incurrence of debt.. We have in the past and may in the future find it advisable to take measures to streamline operations and reduce expenses, including, without limitation, reducing our workforce or discontinuing certain products or businesses. Such measures may place significant strains on our management and employees, and could impair our development, marketing, sales, and customer support efforts. We may also incur liabilities from these measures. Such effects from streamlining could have a negative impact on our business and financial results.. We believe that our future revenue growth will depend on, among other factors, our ability to attract new advertisers, compete effectively, maximize our sales efforts, demonstrate a positive return on investment for advertisers, successfully improve existing products and services, and develop successful new products and services. If we are unable to generate adequate revenue growth and to manage our expenses, we may continue to incur significant losses in the future and may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability.. We are dependent on certain distribution partners, for distribution of our services, and we derive a significant amount of our total revenue through these distribution partners. A loss of distribution partners or a decrease in revenue from certain distribution partners could adversely affect our business.. A relatively small number of distribution partners currently deliver a significant percentage of calls and traffic to our advertisers. There was no distribution partner paid more than 10% of total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017. Our existing agreements with many of our larger distribution partners permit either company to terminate without penalty on short notice and are primarily structured on a variable-payment basis, under which we make payments based on a specified percentage of revenue or based on the number of paid phone calls or click-throughs. We intend to continue devoting resources in support of our larger distribution partners, but there are no guarantees that these relationships will remain in place over the short-or long-term. In addition, we cannot be assured that any of these distribution partners will continue to generate current levels of revenue for us or that we will be able to maintain the applicable variable payment terms at their current levels. A loss of any of these distribution partners or a decrease in revenue or contribution due to lower calls and traffic or less favorable variable payment terms from any one of these distribution relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 14. Companies distributing advertising through mobile or online Internet have experienced, and will likely continue to experience, consolidation. This consolidation has reduced the number of partners that control the mobile and online advertising outlets with the most user calls and traffic. According to the comScore qSearch analysis of the U.S. desktop search marketplace for January 2018, Oath and Microsoft accounted for 11.9% and 23.7%, respectively, of the core search market in the United States and Google accounted for 63.2%. As a result, the larger distribution partners have greater control over determining the market terms of distribution, including placement of call and click-based advertisements and cost of placement. In addition, many participants in the performance-based advertising and search marketing industries control significant portions of mobile and online traffic that they deliver to advertisers. We do not believe, for example, that Google, Microsoft, and Oath are as reliant as we are on a third-party distribution network to deliver their services. This gives these companies a significant advantage over us in delivering their services, and with a lesser degree of risk.. We rely on certain advertiser reseller partners and agencies, including DexYP, Resolution Media, OMD Digital, CDK Global, hibu, Inc., and Web.com for the purchase of various advertising and marketing services, as well as to provide us with a large number of advertisers. A loss of certain advertiser reseller partners and agencies or a decrease in revenue from these reseller partners and agencies could adversely affect our business. Such advertisers are subject to varying terms and conditions, which may result in claims or credit risks to us.. We benefit from the established relationships and national sales teams that certain of our reseller partners, who are leading reseller partners of advertisers and advertising agencies, have in place throughout the U.S. and international markets. These advertiser reseller partners and agencies refer or bring advertisers to us for the purchase of various advertising products and services. We derive a sizeable portion of our total revenue through these advertiser reseller partners and agencies. Additionally, these advertiser reseller partners and agencies may decide to operate the advertising services we perform internally with their own teams and technology. A loss of certain advertiser reseller partners and agencies or a decrease in revenue from these clients could adversely affect our business.. Through our primary contract with YP, we generate revenues from our local leads platform. We also have a separate pay-for-call services arrangement with YP. These agreements expire December 31, 2018. The primary local leads platform arrangement provides YP flexibility to migrate active accounts to itself or a third-party provider prior to the end of an advertiser contract and provides YP with certain termination rights beginning January 1, 2018 upon four-months prior notice. We also have a separate distribution partner agreement with YP. We expect YP may decrease the number of new advertiser accounts with us and may elect to migrate certain active accounts to itself or a third-party provider which would result in fewer small business accounts and related revenues, as well as reduced contribution and profitability. YP's small business account base utilizing our platform has declined, and to the extent declines occur in their business, their small business accounts may spend fewer dollars on our pay-for-call services. We expect YP and local leads platform advertisers in future periods will comprise lower total revenues compared to previous periods and YP as a percentage of our total revenue may also comprise a smaller percentage of our total revenue with any revenue increase. In 2017, Dex Media, Inc (\"Dex\") acquired YP Holdings LLC (\"YP Holdings\"), which is the parent company of YP. We have separate reseller partner arrangements with Dex for call advertising services. YP is our largest reseller partner and including Dex (collectively \"DexYP\") was responsible for 21% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017. It is possible that this acquisition may result in changes to our relationship and arrangements with DexYP including changes that may result in a significant reduction in the paid account fees and agency fees that we receive from DexYP. There can be no assurance that our business with DexYP in the future will continue at or near current revenue and contribution levels, that we will be able to renew and extend the contracts, and if renewed, the contracts may be on less favorable terms to us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our future operating results.. We also have arrangements with advertising agencies, such as Resolution Media and OMD Digital, who act on an advertiser's behalf and may represent more than one advertiser that utilizes our products and services. Our primary arrangements with Resolution Media and OMD Digital are for pay-for-call services whereby we charge an agreed-upon price for qualified calls or leads from our network and call analytic services. Resolution Media and OMD Digital accounted for 10% and less than 10% of total revenues, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2017.. 15. These reseller partners and agencies may in certain cases be subject to negotiated terms and conditions separate from those applied to advertising clients. In some cases, the applicable contract terms may be the result of legacy or industry association documentation or simply customized advertising solutions for large reseller partners and agencies. In any case, as a consequence of such varying terms and conditions, we may be subject to claims or credit risks that we may otherwise mitigate more efficiently across our automated advertiser management platform.. These claims and risks may vary depending on the nature of the aggregated client base. Among other claims, we may be subject to disputes based on third party tracking information or analysis. We may also be subject to differing credit profiles and risks based on the agency relationship associated with these advertisers. For such advertisers, payment may be made on an invoice basis, unlike our retail platform, which in many instances is paid in advance of the service. In some limited circumstances, we may also have accepted individual advertiser payment liability in place of liability of the advertising agency or media advisor.. We received approximately 60% and 52% of our revenue from our five largest customers for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2017, respectively, and the loss of one or more of these customers could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.. Our five largest customers accounted for approximately 60% and 52% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2017, respectively. DexYP was our largest customer and was responsible for 21% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017.. Through our primary contract with YP, we generate revenues from our local leads platform. We also have a separate pay-for-call services arrangement with YP. These agreements expire December 31, 2018. The primary local leads platform arrangement provides YP flexibility to migrate active accounts to itself or a third-party provider prior to the end of an advertiser contract and provides YP with certain termination rights beginning January 1, 2018 upon four-months prior notice. We also have a separate distribution partner agreement with YP. We expect YP may decrease the number of new advertiser accounts with us and may elect to migrate certain active accounts to itself or a third-party provider which would result in fewer small business accounts and related revenues, as well as reduced contribution and profitability. YP's small business account base utilizing our platform has declined, and to the extent declines occur in their business, their small business accounts may spend fewer dollars on our pay-for-call services. We expect YP and local leads platform advertisers in future periods will comprise lower total revenues compared to previous periods and YP as a percentage of our total revenue may also comprise a smaller percentage of our total revenue with any revenue increase. In 2017, Dex acquired YP Holdings, which is the parent company of YP. We have separate reseller partner arrangements with Dex for call advertising services. It is possible that this acquisition may result in changes to our relationship and arrangements with YP and/or Dex, including changes that may result in a significant reduction in the paid account fees and agency fees that we receive from YP. There can be no assurance that our business with DexYP in the future will continue at or near current revenue and contribution levels, that we will be able to renew and extend our contracts with them, and if renewed, the contracts may be on less favorable terms to us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our future operating results.. We have arrangements with Resolution Media and OMD Digital, who act as agents on advertisers' behalf, for pay-for-call services whereby we charge an agreed upon price for qualified calls or leads from our network and call analytic services. A single advertiser, State Farm who utilizes our services primarily through Resolution Media and OMD Digital, accounted for 17% of total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017.. 16. Many of our other large customers, including reseller partners, and advertising agencies are not subject to long term contracts with us or have contracts with near term expiration dates and are able to reduce or cease advertising spend at any time and for any reason. Reseller partners purchase various advertising and marketing services from us, as well as provide us with a large number of advertisers. A loss of reseller partners or a decrease in revenue from these resellers could adversely affect our business. In some cases, we engage with advertisers through advertising agencies, who act on behalf of the advertisers. Advertising agencies, such as Resolution Media and OMD Digital, may place insertion orders with us on behalf of advertisers (including State Farm) for particular advertising campaigns, which are typically short term and subject to a specified dollar amount, and are not obligated to commit beyond the campaign governed by a particular insertion order and may also cancel the campaign prior to completion. Advertising agencies also have relationships with many different providers, each of whom may be running portions of the advertising campaign. We have call advertising arrangements with certain large customers which provide flexibility around financial commitments, termination rights, indemnification, and security obligations. Our large customers may vary spend levels and there can be no assurances that our large customers will continue to spend at levels similar to prior quarters. If any of our largest customers are acquired, such acquisition may impact its advertising spending or budget with us, including due to rebranding, change in advertising agency, or change in media tactics. A significant reduction in advertising spending or budgets by our largest customers, or the loss of one or more of these customers, if not replaced by new customers or an increase in business from existing customers, would have a material adverse effect on our future operating results.. Our large customers have substantial negotiating leverage, which may require that we agree to terms and conditions that may have an adverse effect on our business.. Our large customers have substantial purchasing power and leverage in negotiating contractual arrangements with us. These customers may seek for us to develop additional features, may require penalties for failure to deliver such features, may seek discounted product or service pricing, and may seek more favorable contractual terms. As we sell more products and services to this class of customer, we may be required to agree to such terms and conditions. Such large customers also have substantial leverage in negotiating resolution of any disagreements or disputes that may arise. Any of the foregoing factors could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If some of our customers experience financial distress or suffer disruptions in their business, their weakened financial position could negatively affect our own financial position and results.. We have a diverse customer base and, at any given time, one or more customers may experience financial distress, file for bankruptcy protection, go out of business, or suffer disruptions in their business. If a customer with whom we do a substantial amount of business experiences financial difficulty or suffers disruptions in their business, it could delay or jeopardize the collection of accounts receivable, result in significant reductions in services provided by us and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity.. We may incur liabilities for the activities of our advertisers, reseller partners, distribution partners and other users of our services, which could adversely affect our business.. Many of our advertisement distribution processes are automated. In some cases, advertisers or reseller partners use our online tools and account management systems to create and submit advertiser listings, and in other cases, we create and submit advertising listings on behalf of our advertisers or reseller partners using the distribution partners' user interface. Although we monitor our distribution partners on an ongoing basis primarily for traffic quality, these partners control the distribution of the advertiser listings provided in the user interface submissions.. We have a large number of distribution partners who display our advertiser listings on their networks. Our advertiser listings are delivered to our distribution partners in an automated fashion through the distribution partners' user interface. Our distribution partners are contractually required to use the listings created by our advertiser customers in accordance with applicable laws and regulations and in conformity with the publication restrictions in our agreements, which are intended to promote the quality and validity of the traffic provided to our advertisers. Nonetheless, we do not operationally control or manage these distribution partners or third parties they may contract with and any breach of these agreements on the part of any distribution partner or its affiliates could result in liability for our business. These agreements include indemnification obligations on the part of our distribution partners, but there is no guarantee that we would be able to collect against offending distribution partners or their affiliates in the event of a claim under these indemnification provisions. Alternatively, we may incur substantial costs as part of our indemnification obligations to distribution partners for liability they may incur as a result of displaying content we have provided them. Any costs incurred as a result of activities of our distribution partners. 17. and their third-party partners could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. We do not conduct a manual editorial review of a substantial number of the advertiser listings directly submitted by advertisers or reseller partners online, nor do we manually review the display of the vast majority of the advertiser listings by our distribution partners submitted to us by the distribution partners' user interface. Likewise, in cases where we provide editorial or value-added services for our large reseller partners or agencies, such as ad creation and optimization for local advertisers or landing pages and micro-sites for pay-for-call customers, we rely on the content and information provided to us by these agents on behalf of their individual advertisers. We do not investigate the individual business activities of these advertisers other than the information provided to us or in some cases review of advertiser websites. We may not successfully avoid liability for unlawful activities carried out by our advertisers or reseller partners and other users of our services or unpermitted uses of our advertiser listings by distribution partners and their affiliates.. Our potential liability for unlawful activities of our advertisers and other users of our services or unpermitted uses of our advertiser listings and advertising services and platform by distribution partners and reseller partners and agencies could require us to implement measures to reduce our exposure to such liability, which may require us, among other things, to spend substantial resources, to discontinue certain service offerings or to terminate certain distribution partner relationships. For example, as a result of the actions of advertisers in our network, we may be subject to private or governmental actions relating to a wide variety of issues, such as privacy, gambling, promotions, and intellectual property ownership and infringement. Under agreements with certain of our larger distribution partners, we may be required to indemnify these distribution partners against liabilities or losses resulting from the content of our advertiser listings, or resulting from third party intellectual property infringement claims. Although our advertisers agree to indemnify us with respect to claims arising from these listings, we may not be able to recover all or any of the liabilities or losses incurred by us as a result of the activities of our advertisers.. Our insurance policies may not provide coverage for liability arising out of activities of users of our services. In addition, our reliance on some content and information provided to us by our large advertiser reseller partners and agencies may expose us to liability not covered by our insurance policies. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain or maintain adequate insurance coverage to reduce or limit the liabilities associated with our businesses. Any costs incurred as a result of such liability or asserted liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our insurance policies may not provide coverage for liability arising out of activities of users of our services. In addition, our reliance on some content and information provided to us by our large advertiser reseller partners and agencies may expose us to liability not covered by our insurance policies. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain or maintain adequate insurance coverage to reduce or limit the liabilities associated with our businesses. Any costs incurred as a result of such liability or asserted liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. If we do not maintain and grow a critical mass of advertisers and distribution partners, the value of our services could be adversely affected.. Our success depends, in large part, on the maintenance and growth of a critical mass of advertisers and distribution partners and a continued interest in our call analytics, pay-for-call, performance-based advertising, and search marketing services. Advertisers will generally seek the most competitive return on investment from advertising and marketing services. Distribution partners will also seek the most favorable payment terms available in the market. Advertisers and distribution partners may change providers or the volume of business with a provider, unless the product and terms are competitive. In this environment, we must compete to acquire and maintain our network of advertisers and distribution partners. If our business is unable to maintain and grow our base of advertisers, our current distribution partners may be discouraged from continuing to work with us, and this may create obstacles for us to enter into agreements with new distribution partners. Our business also depends in part on certain of our large reseller partners and agencies to grow their base of advertisers as these advertisers become increasingly important to our business and our ability to attract additional distribution partners and opportunities. Similarly, if our distribution network does not grow and does not continue to improve over time, current and prospective advertisers and reseller partners and agencies may reduce or terminate this portion of their business with us. Any decline in the number of advertisers and distribution partners could adversely affect the value of our services.. The mobile advertising market may develop more slowly than expected, which could harm our business.. If the market for mobile marketing and advertising develops more slowly than we expect, our business could suffer. Our future success is highly dependent on the commitment of advertisers and marketers to mobile communications as an advertising and marketing medium, the willingness of our potential advertisers to outsource their mobile advertising and marketing needs, and our ability to sell our mobile advertising services to reseller partners and. 18. agencies. The mobile advertising and marketing market is rapidly evolving. Businesses, including current and potential advertisers, may find mobile advertising or marketing to be less effective than traditional advertising media or marketing methods or other technologies for promoting their products and services. As a result, the future demand and market acceptance for mobile marketing and advertising is uncertain. Many of our current or potential advertisers may have little or no experience using mobile communications for advertising or marketing purposes and have allocated only a limited portion of their advertising or marketing budgets to mobile communications advertising or marketing, and there is no certainty that they will allocate more funds in the future, if any. Funds to these types of campaigns may fluctuate greatly as different agencies and advertisers test and refine their overall marketing strategies to include mobile advertising and analytics tools. The adoption rate and budget commitments may vary from period to period as agencies and advertisers determine the appropriate mix of media and lead sources in short term and longer term campaigns.. We are dependent upon the quality of mobile, online, offline and other traffic sources in our network to provide value to our advertisers and the advertisers of our reseller partners and agencies, and any failure in our quality control could have a material adverse effect on the value of our services to our advertisers and adversely affect our revenues.. We utilize certain monitoring processes with respect to the quality of the mobile, online, offline and other traffic sources that we deliver to our advertisers. Among the factors we seek to monitor are sources and causes of low quality phone calls such as unwanted telemarketer calls or other actions such as non-human processes, including robots or robocallers, spiders or other software, the mechanical automation of calling, and other types of invalid calls, call fraud, or call spam, the purpose of which is something other than to view the underlying content. Additionally, we also seek to identify other indicators which may suggest that a user may not be targeted by or desirable to our advertisers. Even with such monitoring in place, there is a risk that a certain amount of low quality mobile, online, offline and other traffic or traffic that is deemed to be less valuable by our advertisers will be delivered to such advertisers, which may be detrimental to those relationships. We have regularly refunded fees that our advertisers had paid to us which were attributed to low quality mobile, online, offline and other traffic. If we are unable to stop or reduce low quality phone calls and Internet traffic, these refunds may increase. Low quality mobile, online, offline and other traffic may further prevent us from growing our base of advertisers and cause us to lose relationships with existing advertisers, or become the target of litigation, both of which would adversely affect our revenues.. We depend on being able to secure enough phone numbers to support our advertisers and other users of our services and any obstacles that we face which prevent us from meeting this demand could adversely affect our business.. We utilize phone numbers as part of a number of information and analytic services to advertisers, such as our call analytics, call tracking, and pay-for-call services. Our services that utilize phone numbers are designed to enable advertisers and other users of our services to utilize mobile, online and offline advertising and to help measure the effectiveness of mobile, online and offline advertising campaigns. We secure a majority of our phone numbers through telecommunication carriers that we have contracted with and a smaller number through the 800 Service Management System, and such telecommunication carriers provide the underlying telephone service. Our telecommunications carriers and telephone number acquisition process are subject to the rules and guidelines established by the Federal Communications Commission. Furthermore, to the extent we offer call recording and pay-for-call services, we may be directly subject to certain telecommunications-related regulations. The Federal Communications Commission and our telecommunication carriers may change the rules and guidelines for securing phone numbers or change the requirements for retaining the phone numbers we have already secured. As a result, we may not be able to secure or retain sufficient phone numbers needed for our services. We may also be limited in the number of available telecommunications carriers or vendors to provide such phone numbers to us in the event of any industry consolidations.. Our automated voice and mobile advertising-based technologies are heavily reliant on vendors.. Certain voice and mobile advertising-based products are heavily reliant on vendors. The free directory product that we provide relies on technology provided by third party vendors that include voice recognition software and business, government and residence data listings. We cannot guarantee that the technology, data and services provided by our third-party vendors will be of sufficient quality to meet the demands of our customers and partners. Further, we cannot guarantee that the technologies, data and services will be available to us in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. Any perception by our customers or partners that our voice and mobile advertising-based products are incomplete or not of sufficient quality could lead to a loss in confidence by our customers or partners,. 19. which in turn could lead to a decline in revenues. If we are unable to continue maintaining, advancing and improving our voice and mobile advertising-based products, our operating results may be adversely affected.. Our business strategy is evolving and may involve pursuing new lines of business or strategic transactions and investments, some of which may not be successful.. Our industry is undergoing significant change and our business strategy is continuing to evolve to meet these changes. In order to profitably grow our business, we may need to expand into new lines of business beyond our current focus of providing mobile advertising analytics products and services, which may involve pursuing strategic transactions, including potential acquisitions of, or investments in, related or unrelated businesses. In addition, we may seek divestitures of existing businesses or assets. There can be no assurance that we will be successful with our efforts to evolve our business strategy and we could suffer significant losses as a result, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our acquisitions could divert management's attention, cause ownership dilution to our stockholders, cause our earnings to decrease and be difficult to integrate.. Our business strategy includes identifying, structuring, completing and integrating acquisitions. Acquisitions involve a high degree of risk. We may also be unable to find a sufficient number of attractive opportunities to meet our objectives which include revenue growth, profitability and competitive market share. Our acquired companies may have histories of net losses and may expect net losses for the foreseeable future. Acquisitions are accompanied by a number of risks that could harm our business, operating results and financial condition:. •  We could experience a substantial strain on our resources, including time and money, and we may not be successful;. •  Our management's attention could be diverted from our ongoing business concerns;. •  We may seek to enter new markets where we have no or limited experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions;. •  While integrating new companies, we may lose key executives or other employees of these companies;. •  We may issue shares of our Class B common stock as consideration for acquisitions which may result in ownership dilution to our stockholders;. •  Acquisitions of certain companies may result in us pursuing a diversified operating or holding company structure to allow us to focus on running diverse businesses independently, but in such event we may not realize the anticipated strategic benefits;. •  We could fail to successfully integrate our financial and management controls, technology, reporting systems and procedures, or adequately expand, train and manage our workforce;. •  We could experience customer dissatisfaction or performance problems with an acquired company or technology;. •  We could become subject to unknown or underestimated liabilities of an acquired entity or incur unexpected expenses or losses from such acquisitions, including litigation;. •  We could incur possible impairment charges related to goodwill or other intangible assets resulting from acquisitions or other unanticipated events or circumstances, any of which could harm our business; and. •  We may be exposed to investigations and/or audits by federal, state or other taxing authorities.. Consequently, we might not be successful in integrating any acquired businesses, products or technologies, and might not achieve anticipated revenue and cost benefits.. We may decide to dispose of assets or a business that may no longer help us meet our objectives.. If we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives.  We may also dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less desirable than we had anticipated. In addition, we may experience greater dis-synergies than expected, and the impact of the divestiture on our revenue may be larger than projected.. 20. Our international operations and any expansion subjects us to additional risks and uncertainties and we may not be successful with our international operations.. We have limited operations, through our international subsidiaries, in other countries. We have international subsidiaries in Australia, Canada, Ireland, and the United Kingdom. Any international expansion presents unique challenges and risks. Compliance with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions and could interfere with our ability to offer our products and services to one or more countries or expose us or our employees to fines and penalties. We may also have to offer our products and services in a modified format which may not be as compelling to certain customers, and we are subject to increased foreign currency exchange rate risks and our international operations and any expansion will require additional management attention and resources. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in our international operations. There are risks inherent in conducting business in international markets, including:. •  the need to localize our products and services to foreign customers' preferences and customs, including the possibility of storing data locally if customers require;. •  difficulties in managing operations due to language barriers, distance, staffing and cultural differences;. •  application of foreign laws and regulations to us, in particular data and privacy regulations in Europe and other international jurisdictions, including the EU General Data Protection Regulation which goes into full force and effect in May 2018 and which supersedes the current EU data protection regulation, which continue to change and impose significantly more liability and product limitations on service providers in our industry;. •  compliance with anti-bribery laws, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Anti-Bribery Act;. •  tariffs and other trade barriers;. •  fluctuations in currency exchange rates;. •  establishing local offices, sales channels, management systems and infrastructures;. •  reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries;. •  changes in foreign political and economic conditions;. •  compliance with the laws of numerous taxing jurisdictions, both foreign and domestic;. •  foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned outside the United States;. •  the complexity and potentially adverse tax consequences of U.S. tax laws as they relate to our international operations;. •  increased costs to establish and maintain effective controls at foreign locations; and. •  overall higher costs of doing business internationally.. Our failure to address these risks adequately could materially and adversely affect our business, revenue, results of operations and financial condition.. We may be subject to intellectual property claims, which could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to use certain critical technologies, divert our resources and management attention from our business operations and create uncertainty about ownership of technology essential to our business.. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to operate without infringing on the intellectual property rights of others. There can be no guarantee that any of our intellectual property will not be challenged by third parties. We may be subject to patent infringement claims or other intellectual property infringement claims, and claims of copyright infringement with respect to certain of our websites that would be costly to defend and could limit our ability to use certain critical technologies. Our call advertising business increases the potential intellectual property infringement claims we may be subject to, particularly in light of the large number of patents which have been issued (or are pending) in the telecommunications field over the last several decades, both in the U.S. and internationally. Jingle, which we acquired in 2011, was subject to patent infringement claims, which were unsuccessful at trial. We resolved this matter and obtained a license to the patents at issue.. 21. We believe that a consolidation of patent portfolios by major technology companies and independent asset holding companies will increase the chances of aggressive assertions of patent and other intellectual property claims. Within the technology telecommunications and online sectors, among other related sectors, we have witnessed various claim holders and alleged rights holders pursue business strategies devoted to extracting settlements or license fees for a wide range of basic and commonly accepted methods and practices. We may be subject to those intellectual property claims in the ordinary course of our business. Also, our partners and customers may also find that they are subject to similar claims, in which case we may be included in any related process or dispute settlement. Any patent or other intellectual property litigation could negatively impact our business by diverting resources and management attention from other aspects of the business and adding uncertainty as to the ownership of technology, services and property that we view as proprietary and essential to our business. In addition, a successful claim of patent infringement against us and our failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology on reasonable terms, or at all, could prevent us from using critical technologies which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We may need additional funding to meet our obligations and to pursue our business strategy. Additional funding may not be available to us and our financial condition could therefore be adversely affected.. We may require additional funding to meet our ongoing obligations and to pursue our business strategy, which may include the selective acquisition of businesses and technologies. In addition, we have incurred and we may incur certain obligations in the future. There can be no assurance that, if we were to need additional funds to meet these obligations, additional financing arrangements would be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Furthermore, if adequate additional funds are not available, we will be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate material parts of the implementation of our business strategy, including potential additional acquisitions or internally-developed businesses.. The loss of our senior management, including other key personnel, could harm our current and future operations and prospects.. We are heavily dependent upon the continued services of members of our senior management team and other key personnel. Each member of our senior management team and other key personnel are at-will employees and may voluntarily terminate his or her employment with us at any time with minimal notice. Following any termination of employment, each of these employees would only be subject to a twelve-month non-competition and non-solicitation obligation with respect to our customers and employees under our standard confidentiality agreement. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management, including other key personnel, for any reason, or any conflict among our senior management or other key personnel, could harm our current and future operations and prospects.. We have experienced turnover in certain senior executives, and the duties and responsibilities of the chief executive officer are performed by the office of the CEO consisting of Michael Arends, Ethan Caldwell, and Russell Horowitz and subject to oversight by our Chairman, Anne Devereux-Mills. We are assessing our current and future senior leadership needs, although we may not be successful in finding or hiring suitable additional senior leadership.. Additional turnover at the senior management level may create instability within the Company and our employees may decide to terminate their employment, which could further impede the maintenance of our day to day operations. Such instability could impede our ability to implement fully our business plan and growth strategy, which would harm our business and prospects.. We may have difficulty retaining current personnel as well as attracting and retaining additional qualified, experienced, highly skilled personnel, which could adversely affect the implementation of our business plan.. Our performance is largely dependent upon the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. In order to fully implement our business plan, we will need to retain our current qualified personnel, as well as attract and retain additional qualified personnel. Thus, our success will, in significant part, depend upon our retention of current personnel as well as the efforts of personnel not yet identified and upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales and marketing personnel. We are also dependent on managerial and technical personnel to the extent they may have knowledge or information about our businesses and technical systems that may not be known by our other personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain necessary personnel. The failure to hire and retain such personnel could adversely affect the implementation of our business plan.. 22. If we are unable to obtain and maintain adequate insurance, our financial condition could be adversely affected in the event of uninsured or inadequately insured loss or damage. Our ability to effectively recruit and retain qualified officers and directors may also be adversely affected if we experience difficulty in maintaining adequate directors' and officers' liability insurance.. We may not be able to obtain and maintain insurance policies on terms affordable to us that would adequately insure our business and property against damage, loss or claims by third parties. To the extent our business or property suffers any damages, losses or claims by third parties that are not covered or adequately covered by insurance, our financial condition may be materially adversely affected. We currently have directors' and officers' liability insurance. If we are unable to maintain sufficient insurance as a public company to cover liability claims made against our officers and directors, we may not be able to retain or recruit qualified officers and directors to manage our company, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. It may be difficult for us to retain or attract qualified officers and directors, which could adversely affect our business and our ability to maintain the listing of our Class B common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market.. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified officers, directors and members of board committees required to provide for our effective management as a result of changes in the rules and regulations which govern publicly-held companies, including, but not limited to, certifications from executive officers and requirements for financial experts on boards of directors. The perceived increased personal risk associated with these changes may deter qualified individuals from accepting these roles. Further, applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the NASDAQ Stock Market heighten the requirements for board or committee membership, particularly with respect to an individual's independence from the corporation and level of experience in finance and accounting matters. We may have difficulty attracting and retaining directors with the requisite qualifications. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified officers and directors, our business and our ability to maintain the listing of our shares of Class B common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market could be adversely affected.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, which could harm our brand and operating results.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable and accurate financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. We have devoted significant resources and time to comply with the internal control over financial reporting requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In addition, Section 404 under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we assess and our auditors attest to the effectiveness of our controls over financial reporting. Our current and future compliance with the annual internal control report requirement will depend on the effectiveness of our financial reporting and data systems and controls across our operating subsidiaries. We expect these systems and controls to become increasingly complex to the extent that we integrate acquisitions and our business grows. To effectively manage this growth, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. We cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we design, implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation or operation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. Inadequate internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock and our access to capital.. We may be required to increase or decrease the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets.. Factors in our ability to realize a tax benefit from our deferred tax assets include tax attributes and operating results of acquired businesses, the nature, extent and periods that temporary differences are expected to reverse and our expectations about future operating results. We regularly review our deferred tax assets to assess whether or not it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized, and if necessary, increase or decrease the valuation allowance for portions of such assets to reduce the carrying value. As of December 31, 2017, our deferred tax assets were $32.7 million and we have provided a full valuation allowance of $32.7 million as we believe it is not more likely than not that these assets will be realized.. The recently passed Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. 23. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive Federal tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"Tax Act\"). The Tax Act, among other changes, makes a U.S. federal net operating loss less valuable as an asset due to a new flat U.S. federal corporate income tax rate of 21%, replacing a graduated rate with a maximum income tax rate of 35%, effective January 1, 2018 and the elimination of the corporate alternative minimum tax for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017. The alternative minimum tax credit carryforward is refundable for any taxable year beginning after 2017 and before 2022 in an amount equal to 50% (100% in the case of taxable years beginning in 2021) of the excess of the minimum tax credit for the taxable year over the amount of the credit allowable for the year against regular tax liability. Net operating losses arising in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 are limited in use to offset eighty percent of taxable income, without the ability to carryback such net operating losses, but with an indefinite carryforward of such losses (instead of the former 2-year carryback and 20-year carryforward for net operating losses arising in taxable years beginning before December 31, 2017). The amount of the net interest expense deduction is generally limited to (a) 30% of adjusted taxable income, calculated without regard to depreciation, amortization or depletion, effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2022 and (b) 30% of net interest expense exceeding earnings before income taxes (reduced by depreciation, amortization and depletion), effective for tax years beginning after January 1, 2022. Disallowed amounts may be carried forward indefinitely, subject to ownership change limitations. We continue to examine the impact this tax reform legislation may have on our business. Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the Tax Act is uncertain and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected.. We may experience unforeseen liabilities arising out of third party domain names included in our distribution network, which could negatively impact our financial results.. We display pay-for-call listings on third party domain names and third-party websites that are part of our distribution network, which could subject us to a wide variety of civil claims including intellectual property ownership and infringement. The potential violation of third party intellectual property rights and potential causes of action under consumer protection laws may subject us to unforeseen liabilities including injunctions and judgments for money damages.. We may face risks related to litigation that could result in significant legal expenses and settlement or damage awards.. From time to time, we are subject to claims and litigation, which could seriously harm our business and require us to incur significant costs.. We are generally obliged, to the extent permitted by law, to indemnify our current and former directors and officers who are named as defendants in these types of lawsuits. Defending against litigation may require significant attention and resources of management. Regardless of the outcome, such litigation could result in significant legal expenses.. If we are a party to material litigation and if the defenses we claim are ultimately unsuccessful, or if we are unable to achieve a favorable settlement, we could be liable for large damage awards that could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial statements.. Risks Relating to Our Business and Our Industry. If we are unable to compete in the highly competitive performance-based advertising and search marketing industries, we may experience reduced demand for our products and services.. We operate in a highly competitive and changing environment. We principally compete with other companies which offer services in the following areas:. •  sales to advertisers of call analytics and call tracking;. •  sales to advertisers of pay-for-call services;. •  delivery of pay-for-call advertising to end users or customers of advertisers through mobile and online destination websites or other offline distribution outlets;. •  services and outsourcing of technologies that allow advertisers to manage their advertising campaigns across multiple networks and track the success of these campaigns;. 24. •  aggregation or optimization of online advertising for distribution through mobile and online search engines and applications, product shopping engines, directories, websites or other offline outlets;. •  provision of local and vertical websites containing information designed to attract users and help consumers make better, more informed local decisions, while providing targeted advertising inventory for advertisers; and. •  local search sales training.. Although we currently pursue a strategy that allows us to potentially partner with all relevant companies in the industry, there are certain companies in the industry that may not wish to partner with us. Despite the fact that we currently work with several of our potential competitors, there are no guarantees that these companies will continue to work with us in the future.. We currently or potentially compete with leading search engines and digital advertising networks such as Google, Microsoft, and Oath. We also compete with call analytics technology providers such as Twilio, Telemetrics, Invoca, DialogTech, and Convirza. As we continue to advance our data analytics technologies, we anticipate facing increased competition from companies providing more broad advertising solutions, such as data management companies like Datalogix. We also face competition on the call supply side, where competing mobile advertising companies like GroundTruth look to outbid, partner with or otherwise secure sources of call supply we utilize. Many of these actual or perceived competitors also currently or may in the future have business relationships with us, particularly in distribution. However, such companies may terminate their relationships with us. Furthermore, our competitors may be able to secure agreements with us on more favorable terms, which could reduce the usage of our services, increase the amount payable to our distribution partners, reduce total revenue and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We expect competition to intensify in the future because current and new competitors can enter our market with little difficulty. The barriers to entering our market are relatively low. Further, if the consolidation trend continues among the larger media and search engine companies with greater brand recognition, the share of the market remaining for smaller search marketing services providers could decrease, even though the number of smaller providers could continue to increase. These factors could adversely affect our competitive position. Some of our competitors, as well as potential entrants into our market, may be better positioned to succeed in this market. They may have:. •  longer operating histories;. •  more management experience;. •  an employee base with more extensive experience;. •  better geographic coverage;. •  larger customer bases;. •  greater brand recognition; and. •  significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources.. Currently, and in the future, as the use of the Internet and other mobile and online services increases, there will likely be larger, more well-established and well-financed entities that acquire companies and/or invest in or form joint ventures in categories or countries of interest to us, all of which could adversely impact our business. Any of these trends could increase competition and reduce the demand for any of our services.. We face competition from traditional media companies, and we may not be included in the advertising budgets of large advertisers, which could harm our operating results.. In addition to digital/online companies, we face competition from companies that offer traditional media advertising opportunities. Most large advertisers have set advertising budgets, a very small portion of which is allocated to mobile or Internet advertising. We expect that large advertisers will continue to focus most of their advertising efforts on traditional media. If we fail to convince these companies to spend a portion of their advertising budgets with us, or if our existing advertisers reduce the amount they spend on our programs, our operating results would be harmed.. 25. If we are not able to respond to the rapid technological change characteristic of our industry, our products and services may cease to be competitive.. The market for our products and services is characterized by rapid change in business models and technological infrastructure, and we will need to constantly adapt to changing markets and technologies to provide new and competitive products and services. If we are unable to ensure that our users, advertisers, reseller partners, and distribution partners have a high-quality experience with our products and services, then they may become dissatisfied and move to competitors' products and services. Accordingly, our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to develop and offer competitive products and services for both our target market and for applications in new markets. We may not, however, be able to successfully do so, and our competitors may develop innovations that render our products and services obsolete or uncompetitive.. Our technical systems are vulnerable to interruption and damage that may be costly and time-consuming to resolve and may harm our business and reputation.. A disaster could interrupt our services for an indeterminate length of time and severely damage our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from:. •  fire;. •  floods;. •  network failure;. •  hardware failure;. •  software failure;. •  power loss;. •  telecommunications failures;. •  break-ins;. •  terrorism, war or sabotage;. •  computer viruses;. •  denial of service attacks;. •  penetration of our network by unauthorized computer users and \"hackers\" and other similar events;. •  natural disasters, including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, and earthquakes; and. •  other unanticipated problems.. We may not have developed or implemented adequate protections or safeguards to overcome any of these events. We also may not have anticipated or addressed many of the potential events that could threaten or undermine our technology network. Any of these occurrences could cause material interruptions or delays in our business, result in the loss of data or render us unable to provide services to our customers. In addition, if a person is able to circumvent our security measures, he or she could destroy or misappropriate valuable information, including sensitive customer information, or disrupt our operations. We have deployed firewall hardware intended to thwart hacker attacks. Although we maintain property insurance and business interruption insurance, our insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur as a result of a catastrophic system failure or other loss, and our insurers may not be able or may decline to do so for a variety of reasons. If we fail to address these issues in a timely manner, we may lose the confidence of our advertisers, reseller partners, and distribution partners, our revenue may decline and our business could suffer. In addition, as we expand our service offerings and enter into new business areas, we may be required to significantly modify and expand our software and technology platform. If we fail to accomplish these tasks in a timely manner, our business and reputation will likely suffer. Furthermore, some of these events could disrupt the economy and/or our customers' business activities and in turn materially affect our operating results.. 26. Cybersecurity risks could adversely affect our business and disrupt our operations.. The threats to network and data security are increasingly diverse and sophisticated. Despite our efforts and processes to prevent breaches, our devices, as well as our servers, computer systems, and those of third parties that we use in our operations are vulnerable to cybersecurity risks, including cyber-attacks such as viruses and worms, phishing attacks, denial-of-service attacks, physical or electronic break-ins, employee theft or misuse, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our servers and computer systems or those of third parties that we use in our operations, which could lead to interruptions, delays, loss of critical data, unauthorized access to user data, and loss of customer confidence. In addition, we may be the target of email scams that attempt to acquire personal information or Company assets. Despite our efforts to create security barriers to such threats, we may not be able to entirely mitigate these risks. Any cyber-attack that attempts to obtain our or our users' data and assets, disrupt our service, or otherwise access our systems, or those of third parties we use, if successful, could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition, be expensive to remedy, and damage our reputation. In addition, any such breaches may result in negative publicity, adversely affect our brand, decrease demand for our products and services, and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. We rely on third-party technology, platforms, carriers, communications providers, and server and hardware providers, and a failure of service by these providers could adversely affect our business and reputation.. We rely upon third-party colocation providers to host our main servers. If these providers are unable to handle current or higher volumes of use, experience any interruption in operations or cease operations for any reason or if we are unable to agree on satisfactory terms for continued hosting relationships, we would be forced to enter into a relationship with other service providers or assume hosting responsibilities ourselves. If we are forced to switch hosting facilities, we may not be successful in finding an alternative service provider on acceptable terms or in hosting the computer servers ourselves. We may also be limited in our remedies against these providers in the event of a failure of service. In the past, we have experienced short-term outages in the service maintained by one of our colocation providers.. We also rely on a select group of third party providers for components of our technology platform and support for our call-based and advertising services, such as hardware and software providers, telecommunications carriers and Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) providers, credit card processors and domain name registrars. As a result, key operational resources of our business are concentrated with a limited number of third party providers. A failure or limitation of service or available capacity by any of these third-party providers could adversely affect our business and reputation. Furthermore, if any of these significant providers are unable to provide the levels of service and dedicated resources over time that we required in our business, we may not be able to replace certain of these providers in a manner that is efficient, cost-effective or satisfactory to our customers, and as a result our business could be materially and adversely affected. Short term or repeat problems with any of these service providers could provide an interruption of service or service quality impairment to significant customers, which could also impact materially our revenue in any period due to credits or potential loss of significant customers.. If our security measures, including those of our vendors or partners, are breached or are perceived as not being secure, we may lose advertisers, reseller partners and distribution partners and as a result we may incur significant legal and financial exposure and suffer an adverse effect on our business.. We store and transmit data and information about our advertisers, reseller partners, distribution partners and their respective users. We also work with vendors and partners who may come into contact with certain data, such as carriers, colocation and data storage facilities and distribution partners referring callers. We deploy security measures to protect this data and information, as do third parties we utilize to assist in data and information storage. Our security measures and those of the third parties we partner with to assist in data and information storage, as well as to assist in the delivery of services to our advertisers, may suffer breaches. Security breaches of our data storage systems or our third-party colocation and technology providers we utilize to store data and information relating to our advertisers, reseller partners, distribution partners and their respective users could expose us to significant potential liability. Similarly, security breaches of our vendors and partners, or ineffective data security by our vendors or partners, may result in similar significant liability. In addition, security breaches, actual or perceived, could result in legal liability, government fines, and the loss of advertisers, reseller partners and distribution partners that could potentially have an adverse effect on our business.. 27. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights, which could result in our competitors marketing competing products and services utilizing our intellectual property and could adversely affect our competitive position.. Our success and ability to compete effectively are substantially dependent upon our internally developed and acquired technology and data resources, which we protect through a combination of copyright, trade secret, and patent and trademark law. To date, we have had issued or have applications pending for the following patents:. •  U.S. Patent Number 7,668,950 entitled \"Automatically Updating Performance-Based Online Advertising System and Method\" was issued February 23, 2010.. •  U.S. Patent Number 8,442,862 entitled \"Method and System for Tracking Telephone Calls\" was issued on May 14, 2013 and a corresponding divisional Patent Application Number 13/294,436 was filed November 11, 2011.. •  U.S. Patent Number 6,822,663 entitled \"Transform Rule Generator for Web-Based Markup Languages\" was issued November 23, 2004.. •  U.S. Patent Number 8,583,571 entitled \"Facility for Reconciliation of Business Records Using Genetic Algorithms\" was issued November 12, 2013.. •  U.S. Patent Number 8,433,048 entitled \"System and Method to Direct Telephone Calls to Advertisers\" was issued April 30, 2013.. •  U.S. Patent Number 8,259,915 entitled \"System and Method to Analyze Calls to Advertised Telephone Numbers\" was issued September 4, 2012 and its continuation Patent Number 8,788,344 was issued July 22, 2014.. •  U.S. Patent Number 8,630,393 entitled \"System and Method for Blocking Telephone Calls\" was issued January 14, 2014.. •  U.S. Patent Number 7,212,615 entitled \"Criteria Based Marketing For Telephone Directory Assistance\" was issued May 1, 2007 and owned by Jingle Networks, which we acquired in 2011.. •  U.S. Patent Number 7,702,084 entitled \"Toll-Free Directory Assistance With Preferred Advertisement Listing\" was issued April 20, 2010.. •  U.S. Patent Number 7,961,861 entitled \"Telephone Search Supported By Response Location Advertising\" was issued June 14, 2011.. •  U.S. Patent Number 9,367,846 entitled \"Telephone Search Supported By Advertising Based On Past History Of Requests\" was issued June 14, 2016.. •  U.S. Patent Number 8,175,231 entitled \"Toll-Free Directory Assistance With Automatic Selection Of An Advertisement From A Category\" issued May 8, 2012.. •  U.S. Patent Number 8,107,602 entitled \"Directory Assistance With Data Processing Station\" was issued January 31, 2012.. •  U.S. Patent Number 8,929,522 entitled \"System and Method to Customize a Connection Interface for Multimodal Connection to a Telephone Number\" was issued January 16, 2015.. •  U.S. Patent Number 8,634,520 entitled \"Call Tracking System Utilizing an Automated Filtering Function\" was issued January 21, 2014.. •  U.S. Patent Number 8,671,020 entitled \"Call Tracking System Utilizing a Pooling Algorithm\" was issued March 11, 2014.. •  U.S. Patent Number 8,687,782 entitled \"Call Tracking System Utilizing a Sampling Algorithm\" was issued April 1, 2014.. •  U.S. Patent Application Number 13/865,966 entitled \"Correlated Consumer Telephone Numbers and User Identifiers for Advertising Retargeting\" was filed April 18, 2013, claiming priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Number 61/801,893 entitled \"Cross-Channel Targeting Using Historical Online and Call Data\" filed March 15, 2013, and its continuation Patent Application Number 15/019,826 entitled \"Cross-Channel Correlation of Consumer Telephone Numbers and User Identifiers\" was filed February 9, 2016.. 28. •  U.S. Patent Number 9,118,751 entitled \"System and Method for Analyzing and Classifying Calls without Transcription\" was issued August 25, 2015, its continuation Patent Number 9,614,962 was issued April 4, 2017, and its continuation Patent Application Number 15/475,456 was filed March 31, 2017.. •  U.S. Patent Number 9,263,038 entitled \"System and Method for Analyzing and Classifying Calls Without Transcription via Keyword Spotting\" was issued February 16, 2016.. •  U.S. Patent Number 9,484,026 entitled \"System and Method for Analyzing and Classifying Calls Without Transcription via Keyword Spotting\" was issued November 1, 2016.. •  U.S. Patent Number 9,232,052 entitled \"Analyzing Voice Characteristics to Detect Fraudulent Call Activity and Take Corrective Action Without Using Recording, Transcription or Caller ID\" was issued January 5, 2016 and its continuation Patent Application Number 14/987,565 was filed January 4, 2016.. •  U.S. Patent Application Number 14/550,089 entitled \"Identifying Call Characteristics to Detect Fraudulent Call Activity and Take Corrective Action Without Using Recording, Transcription or Caller ID\" was filed November 21, 2014.. •  U.S. Patent Application Number 14/714,141 entitled \"Call Analytics for Mobile Advertising\" was filed May 15, 2015.. •  U.S. Patent Number 9,485,354 912 entitled \"Identifying Call Features and Associations to Detect Call Traffic Pumping and Take Corrective Action\" was issued November 1, 2016.. •  U.S. Patent Application Number 15/840,155 entitled \"Source-Agnostic Correlation of Consumer Telephone Numbers and User Identifiers\" was filed December 13, 2017.. In the future, additional patent applications may be filed with respect to internally developed or acquired technologies. Our industry is highly competitive and many individuals and companies have sought to patent processes in the industry. We may decide not to protect certain intellectual properties or business methods which may later turn out to be significant to us. In addition, the patent process takes several years and involves considerable expense. Further, patent applications and patent positions in our industry are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions due in part to the number of competing technologies. As a result, we may not be able to successfully prosecute these patent applications, in whole or in part, or any additional patent filings that we may make in the future. We also depend on our trademarks, trade names and domain names. We may not be able to adequately protect our technology and data resources. In addition, intellectual property laws vary from country to country, and it may be more difficult to protect our intellectual property in some foreign jurisdictions in which we may plan to enter. If we fail to obtain and maintain patent or other intellectual property protection for our technology, our competitors could market competing products and services utilizing our technology.. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties domestically and internationally may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our services, technology and other intellectual property. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent any misappropriation or confusion among consumers and advertisers. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights from unauthorized use, our competitive position could be adversely affected.. We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, which could be expensive and time consuming.. We may initiate patent litigation against third parties to protect or enforce our patent rights, and we may be sued by others seeking to invalidate our patents or prevent the issuance of future patents. We may also become subject to interference proceedings conducted in the patent and trademark offices of various countries to determine the priority of inventions. The defense and prosecution, if necessary, of intellectual property suits, interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings is costly and may divert our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. We may not prevail in any of these suits. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not being issued. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have an adverse effect on the trading price of our Class B common stock.. 29. Our quarterly results of operations might fluctuate due to seasonality, which could adversely affect our growth rate and in turn the market price of our securities.. Our quarterly results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future due to seasonal fluctuations in the level of mobile and Internet usage and seasonal purchasing cycles of many advertisers. Our experience has shown that during the spring and summer months, mobile and Internet usage is generally lower than during other times of the year and during the latter part of the fourth quarter of the calendar year we generally experience lower call volume and reduced demand for calls from our call advertising customers. The extent to which usage and call volume may decrease during these off-peak periods is difficult to predict. Prolonged or severe decreases in usage and call volume during these periods may adversely affect our growth rate and results, and in turn, the market price of our securities. Historically, we have seen this trend generally reversing in the first quarter of the calendar year with increased mobile and internet usage and often new budgets at the beginning of the year for many of our customers with fiscal years ending December 31. However, there can be no assurances such seasonal trends will consistently repeat each year. The current business environment and our industry has generally both resulted in, and we may continue to see, many advertisers and reseller partners reducing advertising and marketing services budgets or adjusting such budgets throughout the year, changing marketing strategies or agency affiliations, or advertisers being acquired by parent companies with alternative media initiatives, which we expect will impact our quarterly results of operations in addition to the typical seasonality seen in our industry.. We are susceptible to general economic conditions, and a downturn in advertising and marketing spending by advertisers could adversely affect our operating results.. Our operating results will be subject to fluctuations based on general economic conditions, in particular those conditions that impact advertiser-consumer transactions. Deterioration in economic conditions could cause decreases in or delays in advertising spending and reduce and/or negatively impact our short-term ability to grow our revenues. Further, any decreased collectability of accounts receivable or early termination of agreements due to deterioration in economic conditions could negatively impact our results of operations.. We depend on the growth of mobile technologies, the Internet and the Internet infrastructure for our future growth and any decrease in growth or anticipated growth in mobile and Internet usage could adversely affect our business prospects.. Our future revenue and profits, if any, depend upon the continued widespread use of mobile technologies and the Internet as an effective commercial and business medium. Factors which could reduce the widespread use of mobile technologies (including mobile devices, in particular) and the Internet include:. •  possible disruptions or other damage to the mobile, Internet or telecommunications infrastructure and networks;. •  failure of the individual networking infrastructures of our advertisers, reseller partners, and distribution partners to alleviate potential overloading and delayed response times;. •  a decision by advertisers and consumers to spend more of their marketing dollars on offline programs;. •  increased governmental regulation and taxation; and. •  actual or perceived lack of data security or privacy protection.. In particular, concerns over the security of online transactions and the privacy of users, including the risk of identity theft, may inhibit the growth of Internet usage, including commercial transactions. In order for the mobile and online commerce market to develop successfully, we and other market participants must be able to transmit confidential information, including credit card information, securely over public networks. Any decrease in anticipated mobile and Internet growth and usage could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects.. We are exposed to risks associated with credit card fraud and credit payment, and we may continue to suffer losses as a result of fraudulent data or payment failure by advertisers.. We have suffered losses and may continue to suffer losses as a result of payments made with fraudulent credit card data. Our failure to control fraudulent credit card transactions could reduce our net revenue and gross margin and negatively impact our standing with applicable credit card authorization agencies. In addition, under limited circumstances, we extend credit to advertisers who may default on their accounts payable to us or fraudulently \"charge-back\" amounts on their credit cards for services that have already been delivered by us.. 30. Regulation of E-Commerce, Online Tracking, Online Data Collection, and Use of the Internet may adversely affect our business and operating results.. Mobile and online search, e-commerce and related businesses face uncertainty related to new or future government regulation at the federal, state, and international levels regarding e-commerce, online tracking, online data collection, and use of the Internet. Due to the rapid growth and widespread use of the Internet, state and federal legislatures (both domestically and abroad) have enacted and may continue to enact various laws and regulations relating to the Internet. Individual states may also enact consumer protection laws that are more restrictive than the ones that already exist.. Furthermore, the application of existing laws and regulations to companies that engage in e-commerce, or otherwise interact with the Internet remains somewhat unclear. For example, as a result of the actions of advertisers in our network, we may be subject to existing laws and regulations relating to a wide variety of issues such as consumer privacy, gambling, sweepstakes, advertising, promotions, defamation, pricing, taxation, financial market regulation, quality of products and services, computer trespass, spyware, adware, child protection and intellectual property ownership and infringement. In addition, it is not clear whether existing laws that require licenses or permits for certain of our advertisers' lines of business apply to us, including those related to insurance and securities brokerage, law offices and pharmacies. Existing federal, state, and foreign laws that may affect the growth and profitability of our business include, among others:. •  The Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) provides protection from copyright liability for online service providers that list or link to third party websites. We currently qualify for the safe harbor under the DMCA; however, if it were determined that we did not meet the safe harbor requirements, we could be exposed to copyright infringement litigation, which could be costly and time-consuming.. •  The Children's Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA) restricts the online collection of personal information about children and the use of that information. The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) has the authority to impose fines and penalties upon website operators and online service providers that do not comply with the law. We do not currently offer any websites or online services \"directed to children,\" nor do we knowingly collect personal information from children.. •  The Protection of Children from Sexual Predators Act requires online service providers to report evidence of violations of federal child pornography laws under certain circumstances.. •  The Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing (CAN SPAM) Act of 2003 establishes requirements for those who send commercial e-mails, spells out penalties for entities that transmit noncompliant commercial e-mail and/or whose products are advertised in noncompliant commercial e-mail and gives consumers the right to opt-out of receiving commercial e-mails. The majority of the states also have adopted similar statutes governing the transmission of commercial e-mail. The FTC and the states, as applicable, are authorized to enforce the CAN-SPAM Act and the state-specific statutes, respectively. CAN-SPAM gives the Department of Justice the authority to enforce its criminal sanctions. Other federal and state agencies can enforce the law against organizations under their jurisdiction, and companies that provide Internet access may sue violators as well.. •  The Electronic Communications Privacy Act prevents private entities from disclosing Internet subscriber records and the contents of electronic communications, subject to certain exceptions.. •  The Computer Fraud and Abuse Act and other federal and state laws protect computer users from unauthorized computer access/hacking, and other actions by third parties which may be viewed as a violation of privacy. Courts may apply each of these laws in unintended and unexpected ways. As a company that provides services over the Internet as well as call recording and call tracking services, we may be subject to an action brought under any of these or future laws.. •  Among the types of legislation currently being considered at the federal and state levels are consumer laws regulating for the use of certain types of software applications or downloads and the use of \"cookies.\" These proposed laws are intended to target specific types of software applications often referred to as \"spyware,\" \"invasiveware\" or \"adware,\" and may also cover certain applications currently used in the online advertising industry to serve and distribute advertisements. In addition, the FTC has sought inquiry regarding the implementation of a \"do-not-track\" requirement. Federal legislation is also expected to be introduced that would regulate \"online behavioral advertising\" practices. If passed, these laws would impose new obligations for companies that use such software applications or technologies. At least one state already has enacted a law, which went into effect in January 2014, regarding online tracking.. 31. Many Internet services are automated, and companies such as ours may be unknowing conduits for illegal or prohibited materials. It is possible that some courts may impose a strict liability standard or require such companies to monitor their customers' conduct. Although we would not be responsible or involved in any way in such illegal conduct, it is possible that we would somehow be held responsible for the actions of our advertisers or distribution partners.. We may also be subject to costs and liabilities with respect to privacy issues. Several companies have incurred penalties for failing to abide by the representations made in their public-facing privacy policies. In addition, several states have passed laws that require businesses to implement and maintain reasonable security procedures and practices to protect sensitive personal information and to provide notice to consumers in the event of a security breach. Further, it is anticipated that additional federal and state privacy-related legislation will be enacted. Such legislation could negatively affect our business. In addition, foreign countries may enact laws that could negatively impact our business and/or may prosecute us for violating existing laws. Such laws might include EU member country conforming legislation under applicable EU Privacy, eCommerce, Data Protection Directives (and similar legislation in other countries where we may have operations), and the recently enacted EU General Data Protection Regulation which goes into full effect in May 2018 and which supersedes the current EU data protection regulation, which is directly applicable to all member states and which is expected to result in substantial changes to our compliance obligations and a significant increase in potential administrative fines for non-compliance. Any costs incurred in addressing foreign laws could negatively affect the viability of our business. Our exposure to this risk will increase to the extent we expand our operations internationally.. Federal, state, and foreign regulation of telecommunications may adversely affect our business and operating results.. We provide information and analytics services to certain advertisers and reseller partners that may include information services. In connection therewith, we obtain certain telecommunications products and services from carriers in order to deliver these packages of information and analytic services.. Telecommunications laws and regulations (and interpretations thereof) are evolving in response to rapid changes in the telecommunications industry. If our carrier partners were to be subject to any changes in applicable law or regulation (or interpretations thereof), or additional taxes or surcharges, then we in turn may be subject to increased costs for their products and services or receive products and services that may be of less value to our customers, which in turn could adversely affect our business and operating results. Furthermore, our call recording and pay-for-call services may directly subject us to certain telecommunications-related regulations. Finally, in the event that any federal or state regulators were to expand the scope of applicable laws and regulations or their application to include certain end users and information service providers, then our business and operating results could also be adversely affected. The following existing and possible future federal and state laws could impact the growth and profitability of our business:. •  The Communications Act of 1934, as amended by the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (the \"Act\"), and the regulations promulgated by the Federal Communications Commission under Title II of the Act, may impose federal licensing, reporting and other regulatory obligations on the Company. To the extent we contract with and use the networks of voice over IP service providers, new legislation or FCC regulation in this area could restrict our business, prevent us from offering service or increase our cost of doing business. There are an increasing number of regulations and rulings that specifically address access to commerce and communications services on the Internet, including IP telephony. We are unable to predict the impact, if any, that future legislation, legal decisions or regulations concerning voice services offered via the Internet may have on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. •  The U.S. Congress, the FCC, state legislatures or state agencies may target, among other things, access or settlement charges, imposing taxes related to Internet communications, imposing tariffs or other regulations based on encryption concerns, or the characteristics and quality of products and services that we may offer. Any new laws or regulations concerning these or other areas of our business could restrict our growth or increase our cost of doing business.. •  The FCC has initiated a proceeding regarding the regulation of broadband services. The increasing growth of the broadband IP telephony market and popularity of broadband IP telephony products and services heighten the risk that the FCC or other legislative bodies will seek to regulate broadband IP telephony and the Internet. In addition, large, established telecommunication companies may devote. 32. substantial lobbying efforts to influence the regulation of the broadband IP telephony market, which may be contrary to our interests.. •  There is risk that a regulatory agency will require us to conform to rules that are unsuitable for IP communications technologies or rules that cannot be complied with due to the nature and efficiencies of IP routing, or are unnecessary or unreasonable in light of the manner in which we offer voice-related services such as call recording and pay-for-call services to our customers.. •  Federal and state telemarketing laws including the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, the Telemarketing Sales Rule, the Telemarketing Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.. •  Laws affecting telephone call recording and data protection, such as consent and personal data statutes. Under the federal Wiretap Act, at least one party taking part in a call must be notified if the call is being recorded. Under this law, and most state laws, there is nothing illegal about one of the parties to a telephone call recording the conversation. However, several states (i.e., California, Connecticut, Florida, Illinois, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Montana, Nevada, New Hampshire, Pennsylvania and Washington) require that all parties consent when one party wants to record a telephone conversation. The telephone recording laws in other states, like federal law, require only one party to be aware of the recording. A Wiretap Act violation is a Class D felony; the maximum authorized penalties for a violation of section 2511(1) of the Wiretap Act are imprisonment of not more than five years and a fine under Title 18. Authorized fines are typically not more than $250,000 for individuals or $500,000 for an organization, unless there is a substantial loss. State laws impose similar penalties.. •  The Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act may require that we undertake material modifications to our platforms and processes to permit wiretapping and other access for law enforcement personnel.. •  Under various Orders of the Federal Communications Commission, we may be required to make material retroactive and prospective contributions to funds intended to support Universal Service, Telecommunications Relay Service, Local Number Portability, the North American Numbering Plan and the budget of the Federal Communications Commission.. •  Laws in most states of the United States of America may require registration or licensing of one or more of our subsidiaries, and may impose additional taxes, fees or telecommunications surcharges on the provision of our services which we may not be able to pass through to customers.. •  Our international operations may expose us to telecommunications regulations in the countries where we are operating and these regulations could negatively affect the viability of our business in those regions.. State and local governments may in the future be permitted to levy additional taxes on Internet access and electronic commerce transactions, which could result in a decrease in the level of usage of our services. In addition, we may be required to pay additional income, sales, or other taxes.. The federal government has placed a ban for now on state and local governments' imposition of new taxes on Internet access or electronic commerce transactions through the Internet Tax Freedom Act. The proposed Marketplace Fairness Act, if enacted into law, would allow states to require online and other out of state merchants to collect and remit sales and use tax on products and services that they may sell. An increase in taxes may make electronic commerce transactions less attractive for advertisers and businesses, which could result in a decrease in the level of usage of our services. Additionally, from time to time, various state, federal and other jurisdictional tax authorities undertake reviews of us and our filings. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, we may on occasion accrue charges for probable exposures. We cannot predict the outcome of any of these reviews.. 33. Risks Relating to Ownership of our Class B common stock. Our Class B common stock prices have been and are likely to continue to be highly volatile.. The trading prices of our Class B common stock have been and are likely to continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations and has more recently declined significantly. Our stock prices may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, which may be the result of our business strategy or events beyond our control, including:. •  actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results;. •  developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents, by us or a competitor;. •  announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, financings, commercial relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments;. •  loss of senior management or other key personnel;. •  registration of additional shares of Class B common stock in connection with acquisitions;. •  lawsuits initiated against us or lawsuits initiated by us;. •  announcements of acquisitions or technical innovations;. •  potential loss or reduced contributions from distribution partners, reseller partners and agencies, or advertisers;. •  significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of technology companies in general and of companies in the digital advertising industry in particular;. •  changes in growth or earnings estimates or recommendations by analysts;. •  changes in the market valuations of similar companies;. •  changes in our industry and the overall economic environment;. •  volume of shares of Class B common stock available for public sale, including upon conversion of Class A common stock or upon exercise of stock options;. •  Class B common stock repurchases under our share repurchase program;. •  sales and purchases of stock by us or by our stockholders, including sales by certain of our executive officers and directors pursuant to written pre-determined selling and purchase plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the \"Exchange Act\");. •  short sales, hedging and other derivative transactions on shares of our Class B common stock; and. •  an adverse impact on us from any of the other risks cited n this Risk Factors section.. In addition, the stock market in general, and the NASDAQ Global Select Market and the market for mobile and online commerce companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the listed companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our Class B common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies.. Litigation against us, whether or not judgment is entered against us, could result in substantial costs and potentially economic loss, and a diversion of our management's attention and resources, any of which could seriously harm our financial condition. Additionally, there can be no assurance that an active trading market of our Class B common stock will be sustained.. If securities analysts do not continue to publish research or publish negative research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our Class B common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes negative research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the market for our stock and demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. 34. Our founders control the outcome of stockholder voting, and there may be an adverse effect on the price of our Class B common stock due to the disparate voting rights of our Class A common stock and our Class B common stock.. As of December 31, 2017, Russell C. Horowitz and Ethan A. Caldwell, two of our founders, beneficially owned 100% of the outstanding shares of our Class A common stock, which shares represented 77% of the combined voting power of all outstanding shares of our capital stock. These founders together controlled 77% of the combined voting power of all outstanding shares of our capital stock as of December 31, 2017. The holders of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock have identical rights except that the holders of our Class B common stock are entitled to one vote per share, while holders of our Class A common stock are entitled to twenty-five votes per share on all matters to be voted on by stockholders. This concentration of control could be disadvantageous to our other stockholders with interests different from those of these founders. This difference in the voting rights of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock could adversely affect the price of our Class B common stock to the extent that investors or any potential future purchaser of our shares of Class B common stock give greater value to the superior voting rights of our Class A common stock. Further, as long as these founders have a controlling interest, they will continue to be able to elect all or a majority of our board of directors and generally be able to determine the outcome of all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. As a result, these founders will be in a position to continue to control all fundamental matters affecting our company, including any merger involving, sale of substantially all of the assets of, or change in control of, our company. The ability of these founders to control our company may result in our Class B common stock trading at a price lower than the price at which such stock would trade if these founders did not have a controlling interest in us. This control may deter or prevent a third party from acquiring us which could adversely affect the market price of our Class B common stock.. Anti-takeover provisions may limit the ability of another party to acquire us, which could cause our stock price to decline.. Our certificate of incorporation, as amended, our by-laws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, even if doing so may be beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, these provisions could limit the price investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Class B common stock. The following are examples of such provisions in our certificate of incorporation, as amended, or our by-laws:. •  the authorized number of our directors can be changed only by a resolution of our board of directors;. •  advance notice is required for proposals that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings;. •  there are limitations on who may call stockholder meetings; and. •  our board of directors is authorized, without prior stockholder approval, to create and issue \"blank check\" preferred stock.. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which provides, subject to enumerated exceptions, that if a person acquires 15% or more of our voting stock, the person is an \"interested stockholder\" and may not engage in \"business combinations\" with us for a period of three years from the time the person acquired 15% or more of our voting stock. The application of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company.. We may not pay dividends on our Class B common stock in the future.. Under Delaware law, dividends to stockholders may be made only from the surplus of a company, or, in certain situations, from the net profits for the current fiscal year or the fiscal year before which the dividend is declared. We recently declared a special dividend. Special dividends generally result in a reduction in stock price with the dividend distributed. In addition, we paid a quarterly dividend on our Class B common stock from November 2006 through May 2015. Our ability to pay dividends is dependent upon a variety of factors, including our financial results, liquidity and financial condition and capital requirements. There is no assurance that we will pay dividends in the future. Furthermore, the payment by us of special dividends or dividends in general may have an impact on our stock price."
