[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. General economic conditions and consumer spending patterns can negatively impact our operating results, and the severe recession that began in late 2007 has adversely affected the boating industry and our company.. General economic conditions and consumer spending patterns can negatively impact our operating results.  Unfavorable local, regional, national, or global economic developments or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects could reduce consumer spending in the markets we serve and adversely affect our business.  Economic conditions in areas in which we operate dealerships, particularly Florida in which we generated approximately 53%, 55%, and 55% of our revenue during fiscal 2015, 2016, and 2017, respectively, can have a major impact on our operations.  Local influences, such as corporate downsizing, military base closings, and inclement weather such as hurricanes or other storms, environmental conditions, and specific events, such as the BP oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010, also could adversely affect, and in certain instances have adversely affected, our operations in certain markets.. In an economic downturn, consumer discretionary spending levels generally decline, at times resulting in disproportionately large reductions in the sale of luxury goods.  Consumer spending on luxury goods also may decline as a result of lower consumer confidence levels, even if prevailing economic conditions are favorable.  As a result, an economic downturn could impact us more than certain of our competitors due to our strategic focus on a higher end of our market. Although we have expanded our operations during periods of stagnant or modestly declining industry trends, the cyclical nature of the recreational boating industry or the lack of industry growth could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations in the future.  Any period of adverse economic conditions or low consumer confidence has a negative effect on our business.. Lower consumer spending resulting from a downturn in the housing market and other economic factors adversely affected our business in fiscal 2007, and continued weakness in consumer spending and depressed economic conditions had a substantial negative effect on our business for several years afterwards. Our revenue decreased from $1.2 billion in fiscal 2007, to $885.4 million in fiscal 2008, to $588.6 million in fiscal 2009, and to $450.3 million in fiscal 2010.  Our earnings decreased from a net income of $20.1 million in fiscal 2007 to a net loss of $134.3 million in fiscal 2008 (including a $122.1 million goodwill impairment charge), a net loss of $76.8 million in fiscal 2009, net income of $2.5 million in fiscal 2010 (including a $19.2 million tax refund), and a net loss of $11.5 million in fiscal 2011.  These substantially deteriorating economic and financial conditions had a greater impact on many other participants in the boating industry, with certain manufacturers and dealers ceasing business operations or filing for bankruptcy.. These conditions caused us to reduce substantially our acquisition program, delay new store openings, reduce our inventory purchases, engage in inventory reduction efforts, close a number of our retail locations, reduce our headcount, and amend and replace our credit facility.  While we believe the steps we took enabled us to emerge from the economic environment of the severe recession as a stronger and more profitable company, we cannot predict whether unfavorable economic, financial, or industry conditions will return or the extent to which they would adversely affect our operating results if they returned nor can we predict the effectiveness of the measures we have taken to address this environment or whether additional measures will be necessary.  A return of depressed economic or industry factors would have additional negative effects on our company, including interfering with our supply of certain brands by manufacturers, reduced marketing and other support by manufacturers, decreased revenue, additional pressures on margins, and our failure to satisfy covenants under our credit agreement.. The availability and costs of borrowed funds can adversely affect our ability to obtain adequate boat inventory and the ability and willingness of our customers to finance boat purchases.. The availability and costs of borrowed funds can adversely affect our ability to obtain and maintain adequate boat inventory and the holding costs of that inventory as well as the ability and willingness of our customers to finance boat purchases.  As of September 30, 2017, we had no long-term debt.  We rely on the Amended Credit Facility led by Wells Fargo Commercial Distribution Finance LLC to purchase and maintain our inventory of boats. The Amended Credit Facility provides a floor plan financing commitment of up to $350.0 million. The collateral for the Amended Credit Facility is all of our personal property with certain limited exceptions.  None of our real estate has been pledged as collateral for the Amended Credit Facility.  As of September 30, 2017, we were in compliance with all of the covenants under the Amended Credit Facility and our additional available borrowings under the Amended Credit Facility was approximately $52.8 million based upon the outstanding borrowing base availability.. Our ability to borrow under the Amended Credit Facility depends on our ability to continue to satisfy our covenants and other obligations under the Amended Credit Facility. The variable interest rate under our Amended Credit Facility will fluctuate with changing market conditions and, accordingly, our interest expense will increase if interest rates rise. A significant increase in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.  The aging of our inventory limits our borrowing capacity as defined provisions in the Amended Credit Facility reduce the allowable advance rate as our inventory ages.  Our access to funds under the Amended Credit Facility also depends upon the ability of our lenders, to meet their funding commitments, particularly if they experience shortages of capital or experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from others during a short period of time.  Depressed economic conditions, weak consumer spending, turmoil in the credit markets, and lender difficulties, among other potential. 22. reasons, could interfere with our ability to maintain compliance with our debt covenants and to utilize the Amended Credit Facility to fund our operations.  Accordingly, under such circumstances, it may be necessary for us to close additional stores, further reduce our expense structure, liquidate inventory below cost to free up capital, or modify the covenants with our lenders.  Any inability to utilize the Amended Credit Facility or the acceleration of amounts owed, resulting from a covenant violation, insufficient collateral, or lender difficulties, could require us to seek other sources of funding to repay amounts outstanding under the Amended Credit Facility or replace or supplement the Amended Credit Facility, which may not be possible at all or under commercially reasonable terms.. Similarly, decreases in the availability of credit and increases in the cost of credit adversely affect the ability of our customers to purchase boats from us and thereby adversely affect our ability to sell our products and impact the profitability of our finance and insurance activities.  Tight credit conditions during each fiscal year beginning with fiscal 2008 and continuing through fiscal 2011 adversely affected the ability of customers to finance boat purchases, which had a negative effect on our operating results.. Our strategies to enhance our performance may not be successful.. We are increasing our efforts to grow our financing and insurance, parts and accessories, service, yacht charter, brokerage, and boat storage businesses to better serve our customers and thereby increase revenue and improve profitability as a result of these higher margin businesses.  In addition, we have implemented programs to increase the lead capture and sale over the Internet of used boats, parts, accessories, and a wide range of boating supplies and products.  These efforts and programs are designed to increase our revenue and reduce our dependence on the sale of new boats.  These business initiatives have required, and will continue to require, us to add personnel, invest capital, enter businesses in which we do not have extensive experience, and encounter substantial competition.  As a result, our strategies to enhance our performance may not be successful and we may increase our expenses or write off such investments if not successful.. Our success depends to a significant extent on the well being, as well as the continued popularity and reputation for quality of the boating products, of our manufacturers, particularly Brunswick's Sea Ray and Boston Whaler boat lines and Azimut-Benetti Group's Azimut products.. Approximately 42% of our revenue in fiscal 2017 resulted from sales of new boats manufactured by Brunswick, including approximately 23% from Brunswick's Sea Ray division, 17% from Brunswick's Boston Whaler division, and approximately 2% from Brunswick's other divisions.  Additionally, approximately 9% of our revenue in fiscal 2017 resulted from sales of new boats manufactured by Azimut-Benetti Group. The remainder of our fiscal 2017 revenue from new boat sales resulted from sales of products from a limited number of other manufacturers, none of which accounted for more than 10% of our revenue.. We depend on our manufacturers to provide us with products that compare favorably with competing products in terms of quality, performance, safety, and advanced features, including the latest advances in propulsion and navigation systems.  Any adverse change in the production efficiency, product development efforts, technological advancement, expansion of manufacturing footprint, supply chain and third-party suppliers, marketplace acceptance, marketing capabilities, and financial condition of our manufacturers, particularly Brunswick and Azimut-Benetti Group given our reliance on Sea Ray, Boston Whaler, and Azimut, would have a substantial adverse impact on our business.  Any difficulties encountered by any of our manufacturers, particularly Brunswick and Azimut-Benetti Group, resulting from economic, financial, or other factors could adversely affect the quality and amount of products that they are able to supply to us and the services and support they provide to us.. The interruption or discontinuance of the operations of Brunswick, Azimut-Benetti Group, or other manufacturers could cause us to experience shortfalls, disruptions, or delays with respect to needed inventory.  Although we believe that adequate alternate sources would be available that could replace any manufacturer other than Brunswick and Azimut-Benetti Group as a product source, those alternate sources may not be available at the time of any interruption, and alternative products may not be available at comparable quality and prices.. We have dealer agreements with Brunswick covering Sea Ray and Boston Whaler products.  Each dealer agreement has a multi-year term and provides for the lowest product prices charged by the Sea Ray division of Brunswick or Boston Whaler, as applicable, from time to time to other domestic Sea Ray or Boston Whaler dealers, as applicable.  These terms are subject to:. •  the dealer meeting all the requirements and conditions of the manufacturer's applicable programs; and. •  the right of Brunswick in good faith to charge lesser prices to other dealers. •  to meet existing competitive circumstances;. •  for unusual and non-ordinary business circumstances; or. •  for limited duration promotional programs.. 23. Each dealer agreement designates a specific geographical territory for the dealer, which is exclusive to the dealer provided that the dealer is able to meet the material obligations of its dealer agreement.. On December 5, 2017, Brunswick issued a press release announcing that it intends to sell Sea Ray.  As of the filing on December 6, 2017 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we are unsure as to whether such a sale will occur or if it occurs, such a sale's impact (positive or negative) on us.. In March 2006, we became the exclusive dealer for Azimut-Benetti Group's Azimut product line for the Northeast United States.  Our geographic territory was expanded to include Florida in September 2008 and to the entire United States in July 2012.  The Azimut dealer agreement provides a geographic territory to promote the product line and to network with the appropriate clientele through various independent locations designated for Azimut retail sales. Our dealer agreement is a multi-year term but requires us to be in compliance with its terms and conditions.. As is typical in the industry, we generally deal with manufacturers, other than Sea Ray and Boston Whaler (both divisions of Brunswick) and Azimut, under renewable annual dealer agreements.  These agreements do not contain any contractual provisions concerning product pricing or required purchasing levels.  Pricing is generally established on a model year basis, but is subject to change in the manufacturer's sole discretion.  Any change or termination of these arrangements for any reason could adversely affect product availability and cost and our financial performance.. Boat manufacturers exercise substantial control over our business.. We depend on our dealer agreements.  Through dealer agreements, boat manufacturers, including Brunswick and Azimut, exercise significant control over their dealers, restrict them to specified locations, and retain approval rights over changes in management and ownership, among other things.  The continuation of our dealer agreements with most manufacturers, including Brunswick and Azimut, depends upon, among other things, our achieving stated goals for customer satisfaction ratings and market share penetration in the market served by the applicable dealership.  Failure to meet the customer satisfaction, market share goals, and other conditions set forth in any dealer agreement could have various consequences, including the following:. •  the termination of the dealer agreement;. •  the imposition of additional conditions in subsequent dealer agreements;. •  limitations on boat inventory allocations;. •  reductions in reimbursement rates for warranty work performed by the dealer;. •  loss of certain manufacturer to dealer incentives;. •  denial of approval of future acquisitions; or. •  the loss of exclusive rights to sell in the geographic territory.. These events could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position and financial performance.. The failure to receive rebates and other dealer incentives on inventory purchases or retail sales could substantially reduce our margins.. We rely on manufacturers' programs that provide incentives for dealers to purchase and sell particular boat makes and models or for consumers to buy particular boat makes or models.  Any eliminations, reductions, limitations, or other changes relating to rebate or incentive programs that have the effect of reducing the benefits we receive, whether relating to the ability of manufacturers to pay or our ability to qualify for such incentive programs, could increase the effective cost of our boat purchases, reduce our margins and competitive position, and have a material adverse effect on our financial performance.. Fuel prices and supply may affect our business.. All of the recreational boats we sell are powered by diesel or gasoline engines.  Consequently, an interruption in the supply, or a significant increase in the price or tax on the sale of fuel on a regional or national basis could have a material adverse effect on our sales and operating results.  Increases in fuel prices (such as those that occurred during fiscal 2008) negatively impact boat sales.  At various times in the past, diesel or gasoline fuel has been difficult to obtain.  The supply of fuels may be interrupted, rationing may be imposed, or the price of or tax on fuels may significantly increase in the future, adversely impacting our business.. 24. Our sales may be adversely impacted by a material increase in interest rates and adverse changes in fiscal policy or credit market conditions.. Over the past several years, our economy has been positively impacted by historically unprecedented low interest rates.  Such interest rates, driven by the policies of the Federal Reserve, are a political issue in the United States.  The Federal Reserve continues to be ambiguous concerning the interest rate issues.  The Federal Reserve has increased its benchmark interest rate this year and signaled that rates could continue to rise more quickly than previously expected. While it is unclear whether these actions suggest a change in previous monetary policy positions, including but not limited to an elimination of quantitative easing over time, any such change or market expectation of such change may result in significantly higher long-term interest rates.. Given that we sell products that are often financed, a material increase in interest rates and adverse changes in fiscal policy or credit market conditions, may negatively impact our customers' willingness or desire to purchase our products.  In addition, such an increase or adverse change could reduce the availability and/or increase the costs of obtaining new debt and refinancing existing indebtedness or negatively impact the market price of our common stock.. Our sales may be adversely impacted by periods of economic or political instability or uncertainty.. In times of political and economic uncertainty, consumers including high net worth individuals, may elect to defer expenditures for luxury items, which can adversely affect our financial performance. Consumer spending on luxury goods also may decline as a result of political uncertainty and instability, even if prevailing economic conditions are favorable. We cannot predict the timing of periods of political or economic uncertainty or recovery.. The availability of boat insurance is critical to our success.. The ability of our customers to secure reasonably affordable boat insurance that is satisfactory to lenders that finance our customers' purchases is critical to our success.  Historically, affordable boat insurance has been available.  In addition, as a severe storm approaches land, insurance providers cease underwriting until the storm has passed.  This loss of insurance prevents lenders from lending.  As a result, sales of boats can be temporarily halted making our revenue difficult to predict and causing sales to be delayed or potentially cancelled.  Any difficulty of customers to obtain affordable boat insurance could impede boat sales and adversely affect our business.. Other recreational activities, poor industry perception, and potential health risks from environmental conditions can adversely affect the levels of boat purchases.. Other recreational activities, poor industry perception, real or perceived health risks, and environmental conditions can adversely affect the levels of boat purchases.  Demand for our products can be adversely affected by competition from other activities that occupy consumers' time, including other forms of recreation as well as religious, cultural and community activities.  In addition, real or perceived health risks from engaging in outdoor activities and local environmental conditions in the areas in which we operate dealerships could adversely affect the levels of boat purchases.  Further, as a seller of high-end consumer products, we must compete for discretionary spending with a wide variety of other recreational activities and consumer purchases.  In addition, perceived hassles of boat ownership and customer service and customer education throughout the retail boat industry, which has traditionally been perceived to be relatively poor, represent impediments to boat purchases.. Adverse federal tax policies can have a negative effect on us.. Changes in federal and state tax laws, such as an imposition of luxury taxes on new boat purchases, increases in prevailing tax rates, and removal of certain interest deductions, also influence consumers' decisions to purchase products we offer and could have a negative effect on our sales.  For example, during 1991 and 1992, the federal government imposed a luxury tax on new recreational boats with sales prices in excess of $100,000, which coincided with a sharp decline in boating industry sales from a high of more than $17.9 billion in 1988 to a low of $10.3 billion in 1992.  Any increase in tax rates, including those on capital gains and dividends, particularly those on high-income taxpayers, could adversely affect our boat sales.. In addition to our traditional repeat and referral business in our physical locations, digital channels are increasingly significant in serving our existing customer base and reaching new customers.  Our continued expansion and success will be negatively impacted if we are not able to fully exploit these channels.. Our digital channels are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that are beyond our control, including the following:. •  changes in technology;. 25. •  changes in consumer willingness to conduct business electronically, including increasing concerns with consumer privacy and risk and changing laws, rules, and regulations, such as the imposition of or increase in taxes;. •  technology or security impediments that may inhibit our ability to electronically market our products and services;. •  changes in applicable federal, state and commercial regulation, such as the Federal Trade Commission Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, purchasing card industry requirements, Office of Foreign Assets Control regulations and similar types of international laws;. •  failure of our service providers to perform their services properly and in a timely and efficient manner;. •  failures in our infrastructure or by third parties, such as telephone or electric power service, resulting in website or application downtime or other problems;. •  failure to adequately respond to customers, process orders or deliver services, which may negatively impact both future digital and/or in-store purchases by such customers;. •  inability of our suppliers or service partners to fulfill customer orders, which may negatively impact customer satisfaction;. •  our failure to assess and evaluate our digital product and service offerings to ensure that our products and services are desired by boating enthusiasts; and. •  the potential exposure to liability with respect to third-party information, including but not limited to copyright, trademark infringement, or other wrongful acts of third parties; false or erroneous information provided by third parties; or illegal activities by third parties, such as the sale of stolen boats or other goods.. Further, we may also be vulnerable to competitive pressures from the growing electronic commerce activity in our market, both as they may impact our own on-line business, and as they may impact the operating results and investment values of our existing physical locations.. Elements of our yacht charter business expose us to certain risks.. Our yacht charter business entails the sale of specifically designed yachts to third parties for inclusion in our yacht charter fleet; a yacht management agreement under which yacht owners enable us to put their yachts in our yacht charter program for a period of four to five years for a fixed monthly fee payable by us; our services in storing, insuring, and maintaining their yachts; and the charter by us of these yachts to vacation customers at agreed fees payable to us.  Our failure to find purchasers for yachts intended for our charter fleet will increase our boat inventory and related operating costs; lack of sales into our charter fleet may result in increased losses due to market adjustments of our yacht charter inventory; and our failure to generate a sufficient number of vacation charter customers will require us to absorb all the costs of the monthly fees to the yacht owners as well as other operating costs.. Customers consider safety and reliability a primary concern in selecting a yacht charter provider.  The yacht charter business may present a number of safety risks including but not limited to, catastrophic disaster, adverse weather and marine conditions, mechanical failure and collision.  If we are unable to maintain acceptable records for safety and reliability, our ability to retain current customers and attract new customers may be adversely affected.  Additionally, any safety issue encountered during a yacht charter may result in claims against us as well as negative publicity.  These events could have a material adverse effect on the competitive position and financial performance of both our yacht charter business and our core retail sales business.. The yacht charter business is also highly fragmented, consisting primarily of local operators and franchisees.  Competition among charter operators is based on location, the type and size of yachts offered, charter rates, destinations serviced, and attention to customer service.  Yacht charters also face competition from other travel and leisure options, including, but not limited to, cruises, hotels, resorts, theme parks, organized tours, land-based casino operators, and vacation ownership properties.  We therefore risk losing business not only to other charter operators, but also to vacation operators that provide such alternatives.. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to make successful acquisitions and to integrate the operations of acquired dealers and each dealer we acquire in the future.. Since March 1, 1998, we have acquired 27 recreational boat dealers, two boat brokerage operations, and two full-service yacht repair facilities.  Each acquired dealer operated independently prior to its acquisition by us.  Our success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to make successful acquisitions and to integrate the operations of acquired dealers, including centralizing certain functions to achieve cost savings and pursuing programs and processes that promote cooperation and the sharing of opportunities and resources among our dealerships.  We may not be able to oversee the combined entity efficiently or to implement effectively our growth and operating strategies.  To the extent that we successfully pursue our acquisition strategy, our resulting growth will place. 26. significant additional demands on our management and infrastructure.  Our failure to pursue successfully our acquisition strategies or operate effectively the combined entity could have a material adverse effect on our rate of growth and operating performance.. Unforeseen expenses, difficulties, and delays frequently encountered in connection with expansion through acquisitions could inhibit our growth and negatively impact our profitability.. Our growth strategy of acquiring additional recreational boat dealers involves significant risks.  This strategy entails reviewing and potentially reorganizing acquired business operations, corporate infrastructure and systems, and financial controls.  Unforeseen expenses, difficulties, and delays frequently encountered in connection with rapid expansion through acquisitions could inhibit our growth and negatively impact our profitability.  We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates or to complete the acquisitions of candidates that we identify.  Increased competition for acquisition candidates or increased asking prices by acquisition candidates may increase purchase prices for acquisitions to levels beyond our financial capability or to levels that would not result in the returns required by our acquisition criteria.  Acquisitions also may become more difficult or less attractive in the future as we acquire more of the most attractive dealers.  In addition, we may encounter difficulties in integrating the operations of acquired dealers with our own operations, difficulties in retaining employees, create potential risks of losing customers, suppliers, or other business relationships, and encounter difficulties managing acquired dealers profitably without substantial costs, delays, or other operational or financial problems.. We may issue common or preferred stock and incur substantial indebtedness in making future acquisitions.  The size, timing, and integration of any future acquisitions may cause substantial fluctuations in operating results from quarter to quarter.  Consequently, operating results for any quarter may not be indicative of the results that may be achieved for any subsequent quarter or for a full fiscal year.  These fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Our ability to continue to grow through the acquisition of additional dealers will depend upon various factors, including the following:. •  the availability of suitable acquisition candidates at attractive purchase prices;. •  the ability to compete effectively for available acquisition opportunities;. •  the availability of cash on hand, borrowed funds or common stock with a sufficient market price to complete the acquisitions;. •  the ability to obtain any requisite manufacturer or governmental approvals;. •  the ability to obtain approval of our lenders under our current credit agreement; and. •  the absence of one or more manufacturers attempting to impose unsatisfactory restrictions on us in connection with their approval of acquisitions.. As a part of our acquisition strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with various recreational boat dealers regarding their potential acquisition by us.  In connection with these discussions, we and each potential acquisition candidate exchange confidential operational and financial information, conduct due diligence inquiries, and consider the structure, terms, and conditions of the potential acquisition.  In certain cases, the prospective acquisition candidate agrees not to discuss a potential acquisition with any other party for a specific period of time, grants us an option to purchase the prospective dealer for a designated price during a specific time period, and agrees to take other actions designed to enhance the possibility of the acquisition, such as preparing audited financial information and converting its accounting system to the system specified by us.  Potential acquisition discussions frequently take place over a long period of time and involve difficult business integration and other issues, including in some cases, management succession and related matters.  As a result of these and other factors, a number of potential acquisitions that from time to time appear likely to occur do not result in binding legal agreements and are not consummated.. We may be required to obtain the consent of Brunswick and various other manufacturers prior to the acquisition of other dealers.. In determining whether to approve acquisitions, manufacturers may consider many factors, including our financial condition and ownership structure.  Manufacturers also may impose conditions on granting their approvals for acquisitions, including a limitation on the number of their dealers that we may acquire.  Our ability to meet manufacturers' requirements for approving future acquisitions will have a direct bearing on our ability to complete acquisitions and effect our growth strategy.  There can be no assurance that a manufacturer will not terminate its dealer agreement, refuse to renew its dealer agreement, refuse to approve future acquisitions, or take other action that could have a material adverse effect on our acquisition program.. We and the Sea Ray Division of Brunswick have an agreement extending through August 31, 2019, with automatic annual one-year extensions at each twelve month anniversary of the agreement, provided that our dealer agreements with the Sea Ray Division of. 27. Brunswick are still then in effect.  The agreement provides a process for the acquisition of additional Sea Ray boat dealers that want to be acquired by us.  Under the agreement, acquisitions of Sea Ray dealers will be mutually agreed upon by us and Sea Ray with reasonable efforts to be made to include a balance of Sea Ray dealers that have been successful and those that have not been.  The agreement provides that Sea Ray will not unreasonably withhold its consent to any proposed acquisition of a Sea Ray dealer by us, subject to the conditions set forth in the agreement.  Among other things, the agreement requires us to provide Sea Ray with a business plan for each proposed acquisition, including historical financial and five-year projected financial information regarding the acquisition candidate; marketing and advertising plans; service capabilities and managerial and staff personnel; information regarding the ability of the candidate to achieve performance standards within designated periods; and information regarding the success of our previous acquisitions of Sea Ray dealers.  The agreement also contemplates Sea Ray reaching a good faith determination whether the acquisition would be in its best interest based on our dedication and focus of resources on the Sea Ray brand and Sea Ray's consideration of any adverse effects that the approval would have on the resulting territory configuration and adjacent or other dealers' sales and the absence of any violation of applicable laws or rights granted by Sea Ray to others.. Our growth strategy also entails expanding our product lines and geographic scope by obtaining additional distribution rights from our existing and new manufacturers.  We may not be able to secure additional distribution rights or obtain suitable alternative sources of supply if we are unable to obtain such distribution rights.  The inability to expand our product lines and geographic scope by obtaining additional distribution rights could have a material adverse effect on the growth and profitability of our business.. Our growth strategy may require us to secure significant additional capital, the amount of which will depend upon the size, timing, and structure of future acquisitions and our working capital and general corporate needs.. If we finance future acquisitions in whole or in part through the issuance of common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock, existing shareholders will experience dilution in the voting power of their common stock and earnings per share could be negatively impacted.  The extent to which we will be able and willing to use our common stock for acquisitions will depend on the market value of our common stock and the willingness of potential sellers to accept our common stock as full or partial consideration.  Our inability to use our common stock as consideration, to generate cash from operations, or to obtain additional funding through debt or equity financings in order to pursue our acquisition program could materially limit our growth.. Any borrowings made to finance future acquisitions or for operations could make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our operating results, a downturn in economic conditions, or increases in interest rates on borrowings that are subject to interest rate fluctuations.  If our cash flow from operations is insufficient to meet our debt service requirements, we could be required to sell additional equity securities, refinance our obligations, or dispose of assets in order to meet our debt service requirements.  In addition, our credit arrangements contain financial covenants and other restrictions with which we must comply, including limitations on the incurrence of additional indebtedness.  Adequate financing may not be available if and when we need it or may not be available on terms acceptable to us.  The failure to obtain sufficient financing on favorable terms and conditions could have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects and our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our internal growth and operating strategies of opening new locations and offering new products involve risk.. In addition to pursuing growth by acquiring boat dealers, we intend to continue to pursue a strategy of growth through opening new retail locations and offering new products in our existing and new territories.  Accomplishing these goals for expansion will depend upon a number of factors, including the following:. •  our ability to identify new markets in which we can obtain distribution rights to sell our existing or additional product lines;. •  our ability to lease or construct suitable facilities at a reasonable cost in existing or new markets;. •  our ability to hire, train, and retain qualified personnel;. •  the timely and effective integration of new retail locations into existing operations;. •  our ability to achieve adequate market penetration at favorable operating margins without the acquisition of existing dealers; and. •  our financial resources.. Our dealer agreements with Brunswick require Brunswick's consent to open, close, or change retail locations that sell Sea Ray or Boston Whaler products as applicable, and other dealer agreements generally contain similar provisions.  We may not be able to open and operate new retail locations or introduce new product lines on a timely or profitable basis.  Moreover, the costs associated with opening new retail locations or introducing new product lines may adversely affect our profitability.. 28. As a result of these growth strategies, we expect to continue to expend significant time and effort in opening and acquiring new retail locations and introducing new products.  Our systems, procedures, controls, and financial resources may not be adequate to support expanding operations.  The inability to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our planned growth also will impose significant added responsibilities on members of senior management and require us to identify, recruit, and integrate additional senior level managers.  We may not be able to identify, hire, or train suitable additions to management.. Our business, as well as the entire recreational boating industry, is highly seasonal, with seasonality varying in different geographic markets.. Over the three-year period ended September 30, 2017, the average revenue for the quarterly periods ended December 31, March 31, June 30, and September 30 represented approximately 20%, 23%, 33%, and 24%, respectively, of our average annual revenue.  With the exception of Florida, we generally realize significantly lower sales and higher levels of inventories and related short-term borrowings in the quarterly periods ending December 31 and March 31.  The onset of the public boat and recreation shows in January stimulates boat sales and allows us to reduce our inventory levels and related short-term borrowings throughout the remainder of the fiscal year.  Our business could become substantially more seasonal if we acquire dealers that operate in colder regions of the United States.. Weather and environmental conditions may adversely impact our business.. Weather and environmental conditions may adversely impact our operating results.  For example, drought conditions, reduced rainfall levels, excessive rain and environmental conditions, such as the BP oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010 or recent hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico and Atlantic Ocean, may force boating areas to close or render boating dangerous or inconvenient, thereby curtailing customer demand for our products.  While we traditionally maintain a full range of insurance coverage for any such events, there can be no assurance that such insurance coverage is adequate to cover losses that we sustain as a result of such disasters.  In addition, unseasonably cool weather and prolonged winter conditions may lead to shorter selling seasons in certain locations.  Many of our dealerships sell boats to customers for use on reservoirs, thereby subjecting our business to the continued viability of these reservoirs for boating use.  Although our geographic diversity and any future geographic expansion should reduce the overall impact on us of adverse weather and environmental conditions in any one market area, weather and environmental conditions will continue to represent potential material adverse risks to us and our future operating performance.. In addition, hurricanes and other storms could result in the disruption of our operations and/or supply chain, including boat deliveries from manufacturers, or damage to our boat inventories and facilities as has been the case when Florida and other markets have been affected by hurricanes.  While we traditionally maintain property and casualty insurance coverage for damage caused by hurricanes and other storms, there can be no assurance that such insurance coverage is adequate to cover losses that we may sustain as a result of hurricanes and other storms such as damage from Hurricane Sandy in 2012 or Hurricanes Harvey and Irma in 2017.  We maintain insurance for property damage and business interruption, subject to deductibles.. We face intense competition.. We operate in a highly competitive environment.  In addition to facing competition generally from recreation businesses seeking to attract consumers' leisure time and discretionary spending dollars, the recreational boat industry itself is highly fragmented, resulting in intense competition for customers, quality products, boat show space, and suitable retail locations.  We rely to a certain extent on boat shows to generate sales.  Our inability to participate in boat shows in our existing or targeted markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We compete primarily with single-location boat dealers and, with respect to sales of marine parts, accessories, and equipment, with national specialty marine parts and accessories stores, online catalog retailers, sporting goods stores, and mass merchants.  Competition among boat dealers is based on the quality of available products, the price and value of the products, and attention to customer service.  There is significant competition both within markets we currently serve and in new markets that we may enter.  We compete in each of our markets with retailers of brands of boats and engines we do not sell in that market.  In addition, several of our competitors, especially those selling marine equipment and accessories, are large national or regional chains that have substantial financial, marketing, and other resources.  Private sales of used boats represent an additional source of competition.. Due to various matters, including environmental concerns, permitting and zoning requirements, and competition for waterfront real estate, some markets in the United States have experienced an increased waiting list for marina and storage availability.  In general, the markets in which we currently operate are not experiencing any unusual difficulties.  However, marine retail activity could be adversely affected in markets that do not have sufficient marine and storage availability to satisfy demand.. 29. A significant amount of our boat sales are from the State of Florida.. Economic conditions, weather and environmental conditions, competition, market conditions, and any other adverse conditions impacting the State of Florida in which we generated approximately 53%, 55%, and 55% of our revenue during fiscal 2015, 2016, and 2017, respectively, could have a major impact on our operations.. We depend on income from financing, insurance, and extended service contracts.. A portion of our income results from referral fees derived from the placement or marketing of various finance and insurance, or F&I products, consisting of customer financing, insurance products, and extended service contracts, the most significant component of which is the participation and other fees resulting from our sale of customer financing contracts.. The availability of financing for our boat purchasers and the level of participation and other fees we receive in connection with such financing depend on the particular agreement between us and the lender and the current rate environment.  Lenders may impose terms in their boat financing arrangements with us that may be unfavorable to us or our customers, resulting in reduced demand for our customer financing programs and lower participation and other fees.  Laws or regulations may be enacted nationally or locally which could result in fees from lenders being eliminated or reduced, materially impacting our operating results.  Customer financing became more difficult to secure during fiscal 2008, which continued in each subsequent fiscal year through fiscal 2011.. Changes, including the lengthening of manufacturer warranties, may reduce our ability to offer and sell extended service contracts which may have a material adverse impact on our ability to sell F&I products.. The Dodd-Frank Act established a new consumer financial protection agency with broad regulatory powers.  Although boat dealers are generally excluded, the Dodd-Frank Act could lead to additional, indirect regulation of boat dealers through its regulation of other financial institutions which provide such financing to our customers.. The reduction of profit margins on sales of F&I products or the lack of demand for or the unavailability of these products could have a material adverse effect on our operating margins.. Our operations are dependent upon key personnel and team members.. Our success depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract, train, and retain, qualified team members and executive officers, as well as the continuing efforts and abilities of team members and executive officers.  Although we have employment agreements with certain of our executive officers and management succession plans, we cannot ensure that these or other executive personnel and team members will remain with us, or that our succession planning will adequately mitigate the risk associated with key personnel transitions.  Expanding our operations may require us to add additional executive personnel and team members in the future.  As a result of our decentralized operating strategy, we also rely on the management teams of our dealerships.  In addition, we likely will depend on the senior management of any significant businesses we acquire in the future.  The loss of the services of one or more key employees before we are able to attract and retain qualified replacement personnel could adversely affect our business.  Additionally, our ability to manage our personnel costs and operating expenses is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, healthcare and other benefit costs, changing demographics, and our reputation and relevance within the labor markets where we are located.. The products we sell or service may expose us to potential liability for personal injury or property damage claims relating to the use of those products.. Manufacturers of the products we sell generally maintain product liability insurance.  We also maintain third-party product liability insurance that we believe to be adequate.  We may experience claims that are not covered by or that are in excess of our insurance coverage.  The institution of any significant claims against us could subject us to damages, result in higher insurance costs, and harm our business reputation with potential customers.. Environmental and other regulatory issues may impact our operations.. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and licensing under various federal, state, and local statutes, ordinances, and regulations, such as those relating to finance and insurance, consumer protection, consumer privacy, escheatment, anti-money laundering, environmental, emissions, health or safety, and employment practices.  With respect to employment practices, we are subject to various laws and regulations, including complex federal, state, and local wage and hour and anti-discrimination laws.  The failure to satisfy those and other regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.  In addition, failure to comply with U.S. trade sanctions, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other applicable laws or regulations could result in the assessment of damages, the imposition of penalties, changes to our processes, or a. 30. cessation of our operations, as well as damage to our image and reputation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Various federal, state, and local regulatory agencies, including the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, or OSHA, the United States Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, and similar federal and local agencies, have jurisdiction over the operation of our dealerships, repair facilities, and other operations, with respect to matters such as consumer protection, workers' safety, and laws regarding protection of the environment, including air, water, and soil.  The EPA promulgated emissions regulations for outboard marine engines that impose stricter emissions standards for two-cycle, gasoline outboard marine engines.  The majority of the outboard marine engines we sell are manufactured by Mercury Marine.  Mercury Marine's product line of low-emission engines, including the OptiMax, Verado, and other four-stroke outboards, have achieved the EPA's mandated 2006 emission levels.  It is possible that environmental regulatory bodies may impose higher emissions standards in the future for these and other marine engines.  Any increased costs of producing engines resulting from current or potentially higher EPA standards in the future could be passed on to our company, or could result in the inability or potential unforeseen delays of our manufacturers to comply with current and future EPA requirements, and these potential consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Certain of our facilities own and operate underground storage tanks, or USTs, for the storage of various petroleum products.  USTs are generally subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations that require testing and upgrading of USTs and remediation of contaminated soils and groundwater resulting from leaking USTs.  In addition, we may be subject to civil liability to third parties for remediation costs or other damages if leakage from our owned or operated USTs migrates onto the property of others.. Our business involves the use, handling, storage, and contracting for recycling or disposal of hazardous or toxic substances or wastes, including environmentally sensitive materials, such as motor oil, waste motor oil and filters, transmission fluid, antifreeze, freon, waste paint and lacquer thinner, batteries, solvents, lubricants, degreasing agents, gasoline, and diesel fuels.  Accordingly, we are subject to regulation by federal, state, and local authorities establishing investigation and health and environmental quality standards, and liability related thereto, and providing penalties for violations of those standards.. We also are subject to laws, ordinances, and regulations governing investigation and remediation of contamination at facilities we operate or to which we send hazardous or toxic substances or wastes for treatment, recycling, or disposal.  In particular, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA or \"Superfund,\" imposes joint, strict, and several liability on:. •  owners or operators of facilities at, from, or to which a release of hazardous substances has occurred;. •  parties that generated hazardous substances that were released at such facilities; and. •  parties that transported or arranged for the transportation of hazardous substances to such facilities.. A majority of states have adopted Superfund statutes comparable to and, in some cases, more stringent than CERCLA.  If we were to be found to be a responsible party under CERCLA or a similar state statute, we could be held liable for all investigative and remedial costs associated with addressing such contamination.  In addition, claims alleging personal injury or property damage may be brought against us as a result of alleged exposure to hazardous substances resulting from our operations.  In addition, certain of our retail locations are located on waterways that are subject to federal or state laws regulating navigable waters (including oil pollution prevention), fish and wildlife, and other matters.. Soil and groundwater contamination has been known to exist at certain properties owned or leased by us.  We have also been required and may in the future be required to remove aboveground and underground storage tanks containing hazardous substances or wastes.  As to certain of our properties, specific releases of petroleum have been or are in the process of being remediated in accordance with state and federal guidelines.  We are monitoring the soil and groundwater as required by applicable state and federal guidelines.  We also may have additional storage tank liability insurance and Superfund coverage where applicable.  Environmental laws and regulations are complex and subject to frequent change.  Compliance with amended, new, or more stringent laws or regulations, more strict interpretations of existing laws, or the future discovery of environmental conditions may require additional expenditures by us, and such expenditures may be material.. Three of the properties we own were historically used as gasoline service stations.  Remedial action with respect to prior historical site activities on these properties has been completed in accordance with federal and state law.  While we do not believe that these environmental issues will result in any material liabilities to us, we cannot provide assurances that no such material liabilities will occur.. Additionally, certain states have required or are considering requiring a license in order to operate a recreational boat.  These regulations could discourage potential buyers, thereby limiting future sales and adversely affecting our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. 31. Furthermore, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, increased our annual employee health care costs that we fund, and significantly increased our cost of compliance and compliance risk related to offering health care benefits.. Finally, new laws and regulations, particularly at the federal level, in other areas may be enacted, which could also materially adversely impact our business.  Adverse changes in labor policy could lead to increased unionization efforts, which could lead to higher labor costs, disrupt our store operations, and adversely affect our operating results.. The market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations as a result of many factors.. Factors that could affect the trading price of our common stock include the following:. •  variations in our operating results;. •  the thin trading volume and relatively small public float of our common stock;. •  our ability to continue to secure adequate levels of financing;. •  variations in same-store sales;. •  general economic, political, and market conditions;. •  changes in earnings estimates published by analysts;. •  changes in earnings estimates or management's failure to provide earnings estimates;. •  the level and success of our acquisition program and new store openings;. •  the success of dealership integration;. •  relationships with manufacturers;. •  seasonality and weather conditions;. •  governmental policies and regulations;. •  the performance of the recreational boat industry in general; and. •  factors relating to suppliers and competitors.. In addition, market demand for small-capitalization stocks, and price and volume fluctuations in the stock market unrelated to our performance could result in significant fluctuations in the market price of our common stock.. The performance of our common stock could adversely affect our ability to raise equity in the public markets and adversely affect our acquisition program.. The issuance of additional capital stock in the future, including shares that we may issue pursuant to stock-based grants, including grants of stock options, restricted stock awards and restricted stock units, and future acquisitions, may result in dilution in the net tangible book value per share of our common stock.. Our board of directors has the legal power and authority to determine the terms of an offering of shares of our capital stock, or securities convertible into or exchangeable for these shares, to the extent of our shares of authorized and unissued capital stock.  The issuance of additional common stock in the future, including shares that we may issue pursuant to stock-based grants, including grants of stock options, restricted stock awards and restricted stock units, and future acquisitions, may result in dilution in the net tangible book value per share of our common stock.. The timing and amount of our share repurchases are subject to a number of uncertainties.. In August 2017, the Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase plan authorizing the Company to purchase up to 2.0 million shares of its commons stock through September 30, 2019. There is no guarantee that our stock repurchase plans will be able to successfully mitigate the dilutive effect of stock options and stock-based grants.  The success of our stock repurchase plans is based upon a number of factors, including the price and availability of the Company's stock, general market conditions, the nature of other investment opportunities available to us from time to time, and the availability of cash.. 32. A substantial number of shares are eligible for future sale.. As of September 30, 2017, there were 21,887,579 shares of our common stock outstanding.  Substantially all of these shares are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the securities laws, unless held by an \"affiliate\" of our company, as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the securities laws.  Shares held by affiliates of our company, which generally include our directors, officers, and certain principal shareholders, are subject to the resale limitations of Rule 144.  Outstanding shares of common stock issued in connection with the acquisition of any acquired dealers are available for resale beginning six months after the respective dates of the acquisitions, subject to compliance with the provisions of Rule 144 under the securities laws.. Through September 30, 2017, we have issued options to purchase approximately 5,006,549 shares of common stock and 1,606,890 restricted stock awards, net of forfeitures and expirations, under our incentive stock plans, and we issued 793,348 shares of common stock under our employee stock purchase plan.  We have filed a registration statement under the securities laws to register the common stock to be issued under these plans.  As a result, shares issued under these plans will be freely tradable without restriction unless acquired by affiliates of our company, who will be subject to the volume and other limitations of Rule 144.. We may issue additional shares of common stock or preferred stock under the securities laws as part of any acquisition we may complete in the future.  If issued pursuant to an effective registration statement, these shares generally will be freely tradable after their issuance by persons not affiliated with us or the acquired companies.. We do not pay cash dividends.. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and we have no current intention to do so for the foreseeable future.. Certain provisions of our restated articles of incorporation and bylaws and Florida law may make a change in the control of our company more difficult to complete, even if a change in control were in the shareholders' interest or might result in a premium over the market price for the shares held by the shareholders.. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws divide our board of directors into three classes of directors elected for staggered three-year terms.  The articles of incorporation also provide that the board of directors may authorize the issuance of one or more series of preferred stock from time to time and may determine the rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions and fix the number of shares of any such series of preferred stock, without any vote or action by our shareholders.  The board of directors may authorize the issuance of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of common stock.  The articles of incorporation also allow our board of directors to fix the number of directors and to fill vacancies on the board of directors.. Our articles of incorporation contain provisions that adopt substantially all of the protections afforded under Florida's affiliated transactions statute (which provides that, with certain exceptions, a transaction with an \"interested shareholder\" must generally be approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of two-thirds of the voting shares (other than the shares owned by the interested shareholder)), except that our articles of incorporation define an \"interested shareholder\" as any person who holds 15% or more of our outstanding stock (rather than 10% as set forth in the statute).  Certain of our dealer agreements could also make it difficult for a third party to attempt to acquire a significant ownership position in our company.. Our sales of yachts produced by the Azimut-Benetti Group in Italy, yachts produced by Galeon in Poland, and motor and sailing yachts produced by Sino Eagle in China expose us to international political, economic, and other risks.. Our sales of yachts produced by the Azimut-Benetti Group in Italy, yachts produced by Galeon in Poland, and yachts for our yacht charter fleet produced by Sino Eagle in China expose us to international political, economic, and other risks.  Protectionist trade legislation in the United States, the European Union, Italy, Poland, or China, such as a change in current tariff structures, export or import compliance laws, or other trade policies could adversely affect our ability to import yachts from these foreign suppliers under economically favorable terms and conditions.. Due in part to the new U.S. Presidential administration, some are expecting substantial changes to United States trade and tax policies, including heightened import restrictions or tariffs. Restrictions could prevent or make it difficult for us to import yachts from foreign suppliers under economically favorable terms and conditions. Increased tariffs could require us to increase our prices which likely could decrease demand for our products. In addition, other countries may retaliate through their own restrictions and/or increased tariffs which would affect our ability to export products and therefore adversely affect our sales.. Our foreign purchase of yachts creates a number of logistical and communications challenges.  The economic, political, and other risks we face resulting from these foreign purchases include the following:. 33. •  compliance with U.S. and local laws and regulatory requirements as well as changes in those laws and requirements;. •  transportation delays or interruptions and other effects of less developed infrastructures;. •  effects from the voter-approved exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union (often referred to as Brexit), including any resulting deterioration in economic conditions, volatility in currency exchange rates, or adverse regulatory changes;. •  limitations on imports and exports;. •  foreign exchange rate fluctuations;. •  imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds;. •  tariffs and duties and other trade barrier restrictions;. •  maintenance of quality standards;. •  unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;. •  differing labor regulations;. •  potentially adverse tax consequences;. •  possible employee turnover or labor unrest;. •  the burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of foreign laws; and. •  political or economic instability.. Increased cybersecurity requirements, vulnerabilities, threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime could pose a risk to our systems, networks, and data.. Our business is dependent upon the efficient operation of our information systems.  The systems facilitate the interchange of information and enhances cross-selling opportunities throughout our company.  The systems integrate each level of operations on a Company-wide basis, including but not limited to purchasing, inventory, receivables, payables, financial reporting, budgeting, marketing, sales management, as well as to prepare our consolidated financial and operating data.  The failure of our information systems to perform as designed or the failure to maintain and enhance or protect the integrity of these systems could disrupt our business operations, impact sales and the results of operations, expose us to customer or third-party claims, or result in adverse publicity.. Increased global cybersecurity vulnerabilities, threats and more sophisticated and targeted cyber-related attacks pose a risk to the security of our and our customers', suppliers' and third-party service providers' products, systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data.  Unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities, or those of third parties with whom we do business, through fraud, trickery, or other forms of deceiving our team members, contractors, vendors, and temporary staff.  While we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including employee training, systems, monitoring and testing, and maintenance of protective systems and contingency plans, we remain potentially vulnerable to additional known or unknown threats.  We may also have access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information that is subject to privacy, security laws, and regulations.  Despite our efforts to protect sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, we may be vulnerable to security breaches, theft, misplaced or lost data, programming errors, employee errors and/or malfeasance that could potentially lead to the compromising of sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, improper use of our systems, unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification or destruction of information, and operational disruptions.  It is possible that we might not be aware of a successful cyber-related attack on our systems until well after the incident.  In addition, a cyber-related attack could result in other negative consequences, including damage to our reputation or competitiveness, remediation or increased protection costs, litigation or regulatory action.. Changes in the assumptions used to calculate our acquisition related contingent consideration liabilities could have a material adverse impact on our financial results.. Our recent acquisitions included contingent consideration liabilities relating to payments based on the future performance of the operations acquired. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to estimate the fair value of any contingent consideration. Our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are uncertain and involve significant judgments. Changes in business conditions or other events could materially change the projection of future earnings used in the fair value calculations of contingent consideration liabilities. We reassess the fair value quarterly, and increases or decreases based. 34. on the actual or expected future performance of the acquired operations will be recorded in our results of operations. These quarterly adjustments could have a material effect on our results of operations.. An impairment in the carrying value of long-lived assets and goodwill could negatively impact our financial results and net worth.. Our long-lived assets, such as property and equipment, are required to be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable.  As of September 30, 2017, we have approximately $127 million of property and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation recorded on our consolidated balance sheet. Recoverability of an asset is measured by comparison of its carrying amount to undiscounted future net cash flows the asset is expected to generate.  If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair market value.  Estimates of expected future cash flows represent our best estimate based on currently available information and reasonable and supportable assumptions.  Our impairment loss calculations contain uncertainties because they require us to make assumptions and to apply judgment in order to estimate expected future cash flows.. Additionally, our goodwill is recorded at fair value at the time of acquisition and are not amortized, but reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise.  In evaluating the potential for impairment of goodwill, we make assumptions regarding industry conditions, our future financial performance, and other factors. Uncertainties are inherent in evaluating and applying these factors to the assessment of goodwill. While we do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a change in the judgments and assumptions used in our assessments of goodwill and long-lived assets which would result in a material effect on our operating results, we cannot predict whether events or circumstances will change in the future that could result in non-cash impairment charges that could adversely impact our financial results and net worth.. Our business could be negatively affected by the actions of activist shareholders. Certain of our shareholders may from time to time advance shareholder proposals or otherwise attempt to effect changes or acquire control over our business. Such proposals or attempts are sometimes led by investors seeking to increase short-term shareholder value by advocating corporate actions such as financial restructuring, increased borrowing, special dividends, stock repurchases or even sales of assets or the entire company.  Such an action focused on the short-term may be to the long-term detriment of our shareholders. If faced with actions by activist shareholders, we may not be able to respond effectively to such actions, which could be disruptive to our business."
