[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Economic Conditions, Availability of Credit and Consumer Confidence Levels Affect Marine Products’ Sales Because Marine Products’ Products are Purchased with Discretionary Income. 11. During an economic recession or when an economic recession is perceived as a threat, Marine Products will be adversely affected as consumers have less discretionary income or are more apt to save their discretionary income rather than spend it. During times of global political or economic uncertainty, Marine Products will be negatively affected to the extent consumers forego or delay large discretionary purchases pending the resolution of those uncertainties. Historical volatility in the prices and financial returns of investments and residential real estate may force consumers to delay retirement, or to choose more modest lifestyles when they do retire. In such a case, consumers may not purchase boats, may purchase boats later in their lives, or may purchase smaller or less expensive boats. Tight lending and credit standards, which until recently have been in use by lenders in the United States, can make loans for boats harder to secure, and such loans may carry unfavorable terms, which may force consumers to forego boat purchases. These factors have also resulted in the past, and may continue to result in the future, in a reduction in the quality and number of dealers upon which Marine Products relies to sell its products.. Marine Products Relies upon Third-Party Dealer Floor Plan Lenders Which Provide Financing to its Network of Independent Dealers. Marine Products sells its products to a network of independent dealers, most of whom rely on one or more third-party dealer floor plan lenders to provide financing for their inventory prior to its sale to retail customers. In general, this source of financing is vital to Marine Products’ ability to sell products to its dealer network. While dealer floor plan credit is currently available for many of our dealers during the 2018 model year, the Company’s sales and profitability could be adversely affected in the event of a decline in floor plan financing availability, or if financing terms change unfavorably.. Interest Rates and Fuel Prices Affect Marine Products’ Sales. The Company’s products are often financed by our dealers and the retail boat consumers. Higher interest rates increase the borrowing costs and, accordingly, the cost of doing business for dealers and the cost of boat purchases for consumers. Fuel costs can represent a large portion of the costs to operate our products. Therefore, higher interest rates and fuel costs can adversely affect consumers’ decisions relating to recreational boating purchases.. Marine Products’ Dependence on its Network of Independent Boat Dealers may Affect its Operating Results and Sales. Virtually all of Marine Products’ sales are derived from its network of independent boat dealers. Marine Products has no long-term agreements with these dealers. Competition for dealers among recreational powerboat manufacturers continues to increase based on the quality of available products, the price and value of the products, and attention to customer service. The Company faces intense competition from other recreational powerboat manufacturers in attracting and retaining independent boat dealers. The number of independent boat dealers supporting the Chaparral and Robalo trade names and the quality of their marketing and servicing efforts are essential to Marine Products’ ability to generate sales. A deterioration in the number of Marine Products’ network of independent boat dealers could have a material adverse effect on its boat sales. Marine Products’ inability to attract new dealers and retain those dealers, or its inability to increase sales with existing dealers, could substantially impair its ability to execute its business plans. Although Marine Products’ management believes that the quality of its products and services in the recreational boating market should permit it to maintain its relationship with its dealers and its market position, there can be no assurance that Marine Products will be able to sustain its current sales levels.. Marine Products’ Financial Condition and Operating Results may be Adversely Affected by Boat Dealer Defaults. The Company’s products are sold through independent dealers and the financial health of these dealers is critical to the Company’s continued success. The Company’s results can be negatively affected if a dealer defaults because Marine Products or its subsidiaries may be contractually required to repurchase inventory up to certain limits, although for business reasons, the Company may decide to purchase additional boats in excess of this contractual obligation.. Marine Products’ Ability to Adjust its Business Operations to Compensate for Reduced Sales of Boats may be Restricted in the Future. In 2008 Marine Products idled certain production facilities and reduced its number of employees to offset the impact that reduced net sales had on the Company’s operating results and cash flows. As a result, the Company experienced lower rates of absorption of its fixed costs. The Company’s sales improved in 2016 and 2017, thus increasing the rate of absorption of its fixed costs and improving operating and net income.. Marine Products’ Sales are Affected by Weather Conditions. Marine Products’ business is subject to weather patterns that may adversely affect its sales. For example, drought conditions, or merely reduced rainfall levels, or excessive rain, may close area boating locations or render boating dangerous or inconvenient, thereby curtailing customer demand for our products. In addition, unseasonably cool weather and prolonged winter conditions may lead to a shorter selling season in some locations. Hurricanes and other storms could cause disruptions of our operations or damage to our boat inventories and manufacturing facilities.. Marine Products Encounters Intense Competition Which Affects our Sales and Profits. The recreational boat industry is highly fragmented, resulting in intense competition for customers, dealers and boat show exhibition space. This competition affects both the markets which we currently serve and new markets that we may enter in the future. We compete with several large national or regional manufacturers that have substantial financial, marketing and other resources.. 12. Marine Products has Potential Liability for Personal Injury and Property Damage Claims. The products we sell or service may expose Marine Products to potential liabilities for personal injury or property damage claims relating to the use of those products. Historically, the resolution of product liability claims has not materially affected Marine Products’ business. Marine Products maintains product liability insurance that it believes to be adequate. However, there can be no assurance that Marine Products will not experience legal claims in excess of its insurance coverage or that claims will be covered by insurance. Furthermore, any significant claims against Marine Products could result in negative publicity, which could cause Marine Products’ sales to decline.. Because Marine Products Relies on Third-party Suppliers, Marine Products may be Unable to Obtain Adequate Raw Materials, Engines and Components Which Could Adversely Affect Sales and Profit Margins. Marine Products is dependent on third-party suppliers to provide raw materials, engines and components essential to the construction of its various powerboats. Especially critical are the availability and cost of marine engines and commodity raw materials used in the manufacture of Marine Products’ boats. While Marine Products’ management believes that supplier relationships currently in place are sufficient to provide the engines and materials necessary to meet present production demands, there can be no assurance that these relationships will continue, that these suppliers will remain in operation or that the quantity or quality of materials available from these suppliers will be sufficient to meet Marine Products’ future needs. Disruptions in current supplier relationships or the inability of Marine Products to continue to purchase construction materials in sufficient quantities and of sufficient quality at acceptable prices to meet ongoing production schedules could cause a decrease in sales or a sharp increase in the cost of goods sold. Additionally, because of this dependence, the volatility in commodity raw materials or current or future price increases in production materials or the inability of Marine Products’ management to purchase engines and materials required to execute its growth and acquisition strategies could reduce the number of boats Marine Products may be able to produce for sale or cause a reduction in Marine Products’ profit margins.. Marine Products may be Unable to Identify, Complete or Successfully Integrate Acquisitions. Marine Products intends to pursue acquisitions and form strategic alliances that will enable Marine Products to acquire complementary skills and capabilities, offer new products, expand its customer base, and obtain other competitive advantages. There can be no assurance, however, that Marine Products will be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates or strategic partners, obtain financing on satisfactory terms, complete acquisitions or strategic alliances, integrate acquired operations into its existing operations, or expand into new markets. Once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve anticipated levels of sales or profitability, or otherwise perform as expected. Acquisitions also involve special risks, including risks associated with unanticipated problems, liabilities and contingencies, diversion of management resources, and possible adverse effects on earnings and earnings per share resulting from increased interest costs, the issuance of additional securities, and difficulties related to the integration of the acquired business. The failure to integrate acquisitions successfully may divert management’s attention from Marine Products’ existing operations and may damage Marine Products’ relationships with its key customers and suppliers.. Marine Products’ Success will Depend on its Key Personnel, and the Loss of any Key Personnel may Affect its Powerboat Sales. Marine Products’ success will depend to a significant extent on the continued service of key management personnel. The loss or interruption of the services of any senior management personnel or the inability to attract and retain other qualified management, sales, marketing and technical employees could disrupt Marine Products’ operations and cause a decrease in its sales and profit margins.. Marine Products’ Ability to Attract and Retain Qualified Employees is Crucial to its Results of Operations and Future Growth. Marine Products relies on the existence of an available hourly workforce to manufacture its products. As with many businesses, we are challenged at times to find qualified employees. There are no assurances that Marine Products will be able to attract and retain qualified employees to meet current and/or future growth needs.. If Marine Products is Unable to Comply with Environmental and Other Regulatory Requirements, its Business may be Exposed to Liability and Fines. Marine Products’ operations are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and licensing under various federal, state and local statutes, ordinances and regulations. While Marine Products believes that it maintains all requisite licenses and permits and is in compliance with all applicable federal, state and local regulations, there can be no assurance that Marine Products will be able to continue to maintain all requisite licenses and permits and comply with applicable laws and regulations. The failure to satisfy these and other regulatory requirements could cause Marine Products to incur fines or penalties or could increase the cost of operations. The adoption of additional laws, rules and regulations could also increase Marine Products’ costs.. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has adopted regulations affecting many marine propulsion engines. This regulation has increased the cost of boats subject to the regulation, which may either reduce the Company’s profitability or reduce sales.. 13. As with boat construction in general, our manufacturing processes involve the use, handling, storage and contracting for recycling or disposal of hazardous or toxic substances or wastes. Accordingly, we are subject to regulations regarding these substances, and the misuse or mishandling of such substances could expose Marine Products to liability or fines.. Additionally, certain states have required or are considering requiring a license in order to operate a recreational boat. While such licensing requirements are not expected to be unduly restrictive, regulations may discourage potential first-time buyers, thereby reducing future sales.. Marine Products’ Stock Price has been Volatile. Historically, the market price of common stock of companies engaged in the discretionary consumer products industry has been highly volatile. Likewise, the market price of our common stock has varied significantly in the past. In addition, the availability of Marine Products common stock to the investing public is limited to the extent that shares are not sold by the executive officers, directors and their affiliates, which could negatively impact the trading price of Marine Products’ common stock, increase volatility and affect the ability of minority stockholders to sell their shares. Future sales by executive officers, directors and their affiliates of all or a substantial portion of their shares could also negatively affect the trading price of Marine Products’ common stock.. Marine Products’ Management has a Substantial Ownership Interest; Public Stockholders may have no Effective Voice in Marine Products’ Management. The Company has elected the “Controlled Corporation” exemption under Section 303A of the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) Listed Company Manual. The Company is a “Controlled Corporation” because a group that includes the Company’s Chairman of the Board, R. Randall Rollins and his brother, Gary W. Rollins, who is also a director of the Company, and certain companies under their control, controls in excess of fifty percent of the Company’s voting power. As a “Controlled Corporation,” the Company need not comply with certain NYSE rules including those requiring a majority of independent directors.. Marine Products’ executive officers, directors and their affiliates hold directly or through indirect beneficial ownership, in the aggregate, approximately 71 percent of Marine Products’ outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, these stockholders effectively control the operations of Marine Products, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions such as acquisitions. This concentration of ownership could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a third-party from acquiring control of Marine Products at a premium.. Provisions in Marine Products’ Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws may Inhibit a Takeover of Marine Products. Marine Products’ certificate of incorporation, bylaws and other documents contain provisions including advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and staggered terms of office for the Board of Directors. These provisions may make a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by Marine Products’ Board of Directors more difficult or expensive."
