[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Risks Related to Our Business Generally. Risks Related to Global Economic and Market Conditions. Global economic, political and market factors beyond our control could reduce demand for our services, and our profitability and business could suffer.. The global financial services business is, by its nature, risky and volatile and is directly affected by many national and international factors that are beyond our control. Any one of these factors may cause a substantial decline in the U.S. and/or global financial services markets, resulting in reduced trading volume. These events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These factors include:. •  economic and political conditions in the United States, Europe and elsewhere;. •  adverse market conditions, including unforeseen market closures or other disruptions in trading;. •  broad trends in business and finance;. •  consolidation or contraction in the number of broker-dealers;. •  actual or threatened acts of war or terrorism or other armed hostilities;. •  concerns over inflation and weakening consumer confidence levels;. •  the availability of cash for investment by mutual funds, exchange traded funds and other wholesale and retail investors;. •  the level and volatility of interest rates, the difference between the yields on corporate securities being traded and those on related benchmark securities and foreign currency exchange rates;. •  the effect of Federal Reserve Board monetary policy, increased capital requirements for banks and other financial institutions, and other regulatory requirements and political impasses;. •  credit availability and other liquidity concerns;. •  concerns over credit default or bankruptcy of one or more sovereign nations or corporate entities; and. •  legislative and regulatory changes, including changes to financial industry regulations and tax laws.. Any one or more of these factors may contribute to reduced activity and prices in the securities markets generally. Our revenues and profitability are likely to decline significantly during periods of stagnant economic conditions or low trading volume in the U.S. and global financial markets.. The U.K. exit from the European Union could materially adversely impact our business, clients, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. In March 2017, the U.K. notified the European Council of its intention to leave the E.U. By invoking Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty, the U.K. is currently set to leave the E.U. in March 2019.  In its negotiations with the E.U., the U.K. is not seeking to maintain continued access to the E.U. single market following Brexit, which will lead to the loss of the \"passporting\" rights for regulated financial services firms to automatically operate throughout the E.U.  This future loss of the existing passport right to the E.U. will affect us and many of our clients. For us, it means we will no longer be able to conduct business in the E.U. through our U.K. subsidiaries following Brexit.. Current discussions between the U.K. and the E.U. regarding a transitional period following March 2019 envisage a temporary continuation of the existing passporting rights during such period.  However, we are not able to predict with any certainty whether the U.K. and the E.U. will be able to agree to a transitional period, which laws and policies will apply during any such transitional period, whether we would be able to rely on the existing \"passporting regime\" during a transitional period or the length of such period. Accordingly, we have begun the process of establishing new regulated subsidiaries in the E.U. in order to provide our trading platform and certain post-trade services to clients in the E.U. following Brexit.. Brexit is expected to significantly affect the fiscal, monetary and regulatory landscape in both the U.K. and E.U., and could have a material impact on their economies and the future growth of various industries.  In particular, the ecosystem of the E.U. financial services industry in which we operate, which prior to Brexit has been heavily centered in London, will become more decentralized. The exit of the U.K., together with the protracted negotiations around the terms of the exit, could significantly impact. 19. the business environment in which we and our clients operate, increase the cost of conducting business in both the E.U. and the U.K., and introduce significant new uncertainties with respect to the legal and regulatory requirements to which we and our clients are subject. As we currently conduct business in Europe primarily through our U.K. subsidiaries, we will face new regulatory and operational costs and challenges associated with the establishment of new regulated subsidiaries in the E.U and the management of a customer and employee base that is less centralized in London. We could also be adversely affected by reduced growth and greater volatility in the Pound Sterling and the U.K. economy.. Changes to U.K. immigration policy are likewise expected occur as a result of Brexit and our access to, and our ability to compete for and hire, skilled employees in both the U.K. and the E.U. is expected to become more constrained. In addition, Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. determines which E.U. laws to replace or replicate. Accordingly, the cost and complexity of operating across increasingly divergent regulatory regimes could increase following Brexit.. Although it is not possible at this point in time to predict fully the effects of an exit of the U.K. from the E.U., or the substance or timeline for any transitional period, any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, Brexit may impact our ability to comply with the extensive government regulation to which we are subject.. Risks Related to Operating in the Electronic Fixed-Income Trading Markets. Decreases in trading volumes in the fixed-income markets generally or on our platform would harm our business and profitability.. We have experienced significant decreases in overall market volumes in the past and may experience similar decreases in market volumes in the future. Declines in the overall volume of fixed-income securities trading and in market liquidity generally, as well as declines in interest rate volatility, could result in lower revenues from commissions for trades executed on our electronic trading platform and fees generated from related activities.. Likewise, decreases in our share of the segments of the fixed-income trading markets in which we operate, or shifts in trading volume to segments of clients which we have not penetrated, could result in lower trading volume on our platform and, consequently, lower commissions and revenue. During periods of increased volatility in credit markets, the use of electronic trading platforms by market participants may decrease dramatically as institutional investors may seek to obtain additional information during the trade process through conversations with broker-dealers. In addition, during rapidly moving markets, broker-dealers are less likely to post prices electronically.   Our market share of the fixed-income trading markets is also impacted by a variety of other factors, including the amount of new issuances of corporate debt, the level of bond fund inflows or outflows, the percentage of volumes comprised of Rule 144A transactions, the percentage of volumes comprised of larger trades known as 'block trades' and whether the prevalent market environment is an \"offer wanted\" or \"bid wanted\" environment.. A decline in overall market volumes, trading volumes on our platform or in our platform's market share for any reason would negatively affect our commission revenue and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Because we operate in a rapidly evolving industry, it is difficult to evaluate our business and prospects.. We face risks and difficulties frequently experienced by companies operating in rapidly evolving industries, such as the electronic financial services industry. These risks and difficulties include, but are not limited to, our ability to:. •  attract and retain broker-dealers and institutional investors on our platform on a cost-effective basis;. •  expand and enhance reliable and cost-effective product and service offerings to our clients;. •  respond effectively to competitive pressures;. •  respond effectively to the loss of any of our significant broker-dealer or institutional investor clients, including due to merger, consolidation, bankruptcy, liquidation or other cause (including, among other things, the collection of any amounts due from such clients);. •  diversify our sources of revenues;. •  maintain adequate control of our expenses;. •  operate, support, expand and develop our operations, technology, website, software, communications and other systems;. 20. •  cybersecurity threats;. •  manage growth in personnel and operations;. •  increase awareness of our brand or market positioning;. •  expand our sales and marketing programs;. •  take advantage of acquisitions, strategic alliances and other opportunities; and. •  respond to regulatory changes or demands.. If we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks or in executing our business strategy, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer.. We may not be able to introduce enhanced versions of our electronic trading platform, new services and/or service enhancements in a timely or acceptable manner, which could harm our competitive position.. Our business environment is characterized by rapid technological change, changing and increasingly sophisticated client demands and evolving industry standards. Our future will depend on our ability to develop and introduce new features to, and new versions of, our electronic trading platform. For example, we have responded to the reduction in fixed-income secondary market liquidity that has been experienced since the credit crisis by, among other things, introducing a number of all-to-all trading options for our institutional investor and broker-dealer clients.  The success of new features and versions depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of the feature or version. In addition, the market for our electronic trading platform may be limited if prospective clients require customized features or functions that we are unable or unwilling to provide. We cannot assure you that any new features and versions will become or remain successful. If we are unable to anticipate and respond to the demand for new services, products and technologies and develop new features and enhanced versions of our electronic trading platform that achieve widespread levels of market acceptance on a timely and cost-effective basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. U.S. federal income tax reform could have an adverse impact on the issuance of new debt in the U.S.. In December 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"Tax Act\") was enacted into law and introduced significant changes to U.S. tax and related laws.  In addition to a reduction in the U.S. federal tax rate, the Tax Act caps interest deductibility and reduces the incentives for U.S. companies to keep foreign cash outside the U.S. and, as such, may reduce the levels of new corporate debt issuance in the U.S.. Prior to the Tax Act, federal tax laws generally provided a strong incentive for U.S. companies to finance their operations with debt rather than equity, primarily due to the deductibility of interest on debt financing. The Tax Act limits the deduction for interest expense to 30% of an issuer's adjusted taxable income for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 (initially generally keyed to EBITDA and later to EBIT for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2022, possibly resulting in a further increase in the disallowance of interest expense).  Debt incurred prior to the passage of the Tax Act is not grandfathered. While issuers may still consider debt financing a viable funding option, the initial reaction to the limitation on interest expense deductibility may be for issuers to consider debt to be less attractive.  In addition, because of the cap on interest expense deductibility in the U.S., issuers may be incentivized to issue debt overseas, where an interest deduction may continue to be available and beneficial. A decrease in the issuance of new debt by U.S. issuers could, over time, reduce the size of the secondary market for U.S. bond trading in which we operate.. Prior to the passage of the Tax Act, earnings of U.S. companies accumulated offshore were generally subject to U.S. tax only when repatriated, with an allowance for foreign taxes previously paid.  The Tax Act reduced the U.S. corporate tax rate by 40% and created a territorial system of taxation in which most foreign income is permanently exempt from U.S. tax. The Tax Act's territorial regime removes the \"lockout\" on overseas earnings of a U.S.-parented group, allowing redeployment or repatriation of those earnings to be utilized for investments (in the US. or other parts of the world), debt repayment, share buybacks, dividends and acquisitions. Accumulated foreign earnings for multinational corporate groups that have deferred the U.S. tax liability are now subject to taxation at a special one-time rate of 15.5% or less. The ability for U.S. companies to efficiently deploy overseas earnings in the U.S. may reduce the need for such companies to issue new debt in the U.S., which could, over time, reduce the size of the secondary market for U.S. bond trading in which we operate.. 21. The Tax Act could have an adverse impact on the issuance of new debt in the U.S., which could impact the amount of secondary trading volumes in the U.S. bond market.  While we are unable to predict the impact of the Tax Act, any material decline in secondary trading volumes in the U.S. bond market would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Risks Related to Competition. We face substantial competition that could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance.. The fixed-income securities industry generally, and the electronic financial services markets in which we operate in particular, are highly competitive, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. We will continue to compete with bond trading conducted directly between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients over the telephone or electronically. In addition, our current and prospective competitors are numerous and include:. •  other multi-dealer trading companies;. •  market data and information vendors;. •  securities and futures exchanges;. •  inter-dealer brokerage firms;. •  electronic communications networks;. •  technology, software, and information services or other companies that have existing commercial relationships with broker-dealers or institutional investors; and. •  other electronic marketplaces that are not currently in the securities business.. Many of our current and potential competitors are more established and substantially larger than we are and have substantially greater market presence, as well as greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources. These competitors may aggressively reduce their pricing to enter into, or otherwise compete in, market segments in which we provide services, potentially subsidizing any losses with profits from trading in other fixed-income or equity securities or other business operations. In addition, many of our competitors offer a wider range of services, have broader name recognition and have larger customer bases than we do. Some of them may be able to respond more quickly to new or evolving opportunities, technologies and customer requirements than we can and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities.. Any combination of our competitors may enter into joint ventures or consortia to provide services similar to those provided by us. Current and new competitors can launch new platforms at a relatively low cost. Others may acquire the capabilities necessary to compete with us through acquisitions. We expect that we will potentially compete with a variety of companies with respect to each product or service we offer. If we are not able to compete successfully in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected.. Our operations also include the sale of information and analytical tools under our BondTicker® and Trax® brands and post-trade services, such as pre-settlement trade matching and transaction reporting and transparency services for the European markets. There is a high degree of competition in data, pricing and post-trade products and services and such businesses may become more competitive in the future as new competitors emerge.  Our information products and post-trade and services lines may be threatened by new regulations, market trends or technologies that reduce their value.  If we are not able to compete successfully in the future, our revenues could be adversely impacted and, as a result, our businesses, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected.. Risks Related to our Future Levels of Business, Profitability and Growth. Neither the sustainability of our current level of business nor any future growth can be assured. Even if we do experience growth, we cannot assure you that we will grow profitably.. The success of our business strategy depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and expand the network of broker-dealer and institutional investor clients that use our electronic trading platform. Our business strategy also depends on increasing the use of our platform by these clients for a wide range of fixed-income products and trade sizes. Individuals at broker-dealers or institutional investors may have conflicting interests, which may discourage their use of our platform. We cannot assure you that the growth of electronic means of trading securities that we have experienced in recent years will continue.. 22. Our growth may also be dependent on our ability to diversify our revenue base. We currently derive approximately 50.8% of our revenues from secondary trading in U.S. high-grade corporate bonds. Our long-term business strategy includes expanding our service offerings and increasing our revenues from other fixed-income products and other sources. We cannot assure you that our efforts will be successful or result in increased revenues or continued profitability. We have experienced significant growth in trading volumes, revenues and profitability in recent years. We cannot assure you that our business will continue to grow at a similar rate, if at all.. We may enter into new fee plans, the impact of which may be difficult to evaluate; past trends in commissions are not necessarily indicative of future commissions.. From time to time, we may introduce new fee plans for the market segments in which we operate. Any new fee plan may include different fee structures or provide volume incentives. We cannot assure you that any new fee plans will result in an increase in the volume of transactions executed over our platform or that our revenues will increase as a result of the implementation of any such fee plans. It is possible that our broker-dealer or institutional investor clients could respond to a new fee plan by either reducing the amount of their business conducted on our platform or terminating their contractual relationship with us, which could have an adverse impact on our fees and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, under certain of our fee plans, our fees are designated in basis points in yield (and, as a result, are subject to fluctuation depending on the duration of the bond traded) or our fees vary based on trade size or maturity. We anticipate that our average fees per million may vary in the future due to changes in yield, years-to-maturity and nominal size of bonds traded on our platform. Consequently, past trends in commissions are not necessarily indicative of future commissions.. If we experience significant fluctuations in our operating results or fail to meet revenue and earnings expectations, our stock price may fall rapidly and without advance notice.. Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate due to a number of factors, including:. •  the unpredictability of the financial services industry;. •  difficulty in quickly adjusting our expense base if revenues fall short of expectations;. •  our ability to retain existing broker-dealer and institutional investor clients and attract new broker-dealer and institutional investor clients;. •  our ability to drive an increase in the use of our electronic trading platform by new and existing broker-dealer and institutional investor clients;. •  changes in our fee plans;. •  the introduction of new features on our electronic trading platform;. •  the effectiveness of our sales force;. •  new product and service introductions by us or our competitors;. •  fluctuations in overall market trading volume or our market share for our key products;. •  technical difficulties or interruptions in our service;. •  general economic conditions in our geographic markets;. •  additional investment in our services or operations; and. •  new regulations that limit or affect how our electronic trading platform can operate or which increase our regulatory compliance costs.. As a result, our operating results may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis, which could result in decreases in our stock price.. As we enter new markets, we may not be able to successfully attract clients and adapt our technology and marketing strategy for use in those markets.. Our strategy includes leveraging our electronic trading platform to enter new markets, such as our recent entry into the municipal bond and leveraged loan markets. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully adapt our proprietary software and technology for use in these and other markets. Even if we do adapt our software and technology, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract clients and compete successfully in any such new markets. We cannot assure you that our marketing efforts or our pursuit of any of these opportunities will be successful. If these efforts are not successful, we may realize less than. 23. expected earnings, which in turn could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock. Furthermore, these efforts may divert management attention or inefficiently utilize our resources.. Risks Related to our Geographic and Customer Concentration. Our businesses are geographically concentrated and could be significantly affected by an adverse change in the regions in which we operate.. Historically, our business operations have been substantially located in the U.S. and the U.K.  While we are expanding our businesses to new geographic areas, we are still highly concentrated in these areas.  Accordingly, our businesses are exposed to adverse regulatory and competitive changes, economic downturns and changes in political conditions in these two countries, such as Brexit. Moreover, due to the concentration of our operations in these areas, such operations are less diversified and, accordingly, are subject to greater regional risks than those of some of our competitors. If we are unable to identify and successfully manage or mitigate these risks, our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected.. We are dependent on our broker-dealer clients, who are not restricted from using their own proprietary or third-party platforms to transact with our institutional investor clients.. We rely on our broker-dealer clients to provide liquidity on our electronic trading platform by posting bond prices on our platform for bonds in their inventory and responding to institutional investor client inquiries. The contractual obligations of our broker-dealer clients to us are minimal, non-exclusive and terminable by such clients. Our broker-dealer clients buy and sell fixed-income securities through traditional methods, including by telephone and e-mail messaging, and through other electronic trading platforms. Some of our broker-dealer clients have developed electronic trading networks that compete with us or have announced their intention to explore the development of such electronic trading networks, and many of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients are involved in other ventures, including other electronic trading platforms or other distribution channels, as trading participants and/or as investors. These competing trading platforms may offer some features that we do not currently offer. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that such broker-dealers' primary commitments will not be to one of our competitors.. In the U.S., the Volcker Rule section of the Dodd-Frank Act bans proprietary trading by banks and their affiliates, which could adversely affect our bank-affiliated broker-dealer clients' ability to make markets in a variety of fixed-income securities.  If bank-affiliated entities reduce their trading activity and that activity is not replaced by other market participants, the level of liquidity and pricing available on our trading platform would be negatively impacted, which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, there has been significant consolidation among firms in the banking and financial services industries over the past several years. Moreover, several of our large broker-dealer clients have reduced their sales and trading businesses in fixed-income in recent years. Further consolidation, instability, and layoffs in the financial services industry could result in a smaller client base and heightened competition, which may lower volumes.. Any reduction in the use of our electronic trading platform by our broker-dealer clients could reduce the volume of trading on our platform, which could, in turn, reduce the use of our platform by our institutional investor clients. The occurrence of any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We could lose significant sources of revenue and trading volume if we lose any of our significant institutional investor clients.. We rely on our institutional investor clients to launch inquiries over our trading platform. A limited number of such clients can account for a significant portion of our trading volume. One institutional investor client accounted for approximately 12.2%, 14.2% and 15.3% of trading volumes during the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Based on information filed with the SEC by this institutional investor client, as of December 31, 2017, investment funds managed by this institutional investor client beneficially owned approximately 8.3% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, primarily through passive index and ETF funds.. The obligations of our institutional investor clients to us under our standard contractual agreements are minimal, non-exclusive and terminable by such clients. Our institutional investor clients buy and sell fixed-income securities through traditional methods, including by telephone and e-mail messaging, and through other electronic trading platforms.. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our major institutional investor clients or that such clients will continue to use our trading platform. The loss of a major institutional investor client or any reduction in the use of our electronic trading platform by such clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 24. Credit and Market Risks. We are exposed to risks in connection with certain transactions in which we act as a matched principal intermediary.. In connection with our anonymous Open Trading\231 protocols, we execute certain bond transactions between and among institutional investor and broker-dealer clients on a matched principal basis by serving as counterparty to both the buyer and the seller in trades which are then settled through a third-party clearing broker. Settlement typically occurs within one to two trading days after the trade date. Cash settlement of the transaction occurs upon receipt or delivery of the underlying instrument that was traded.. We are exposed to credit and performance risks in our role as matched principal trading counterparty to our clients executing Open Trading\231 trades on our platform, including the risk that counterparties that owe us money or securities will not perform their obligations. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. Adverse movements in the prices of securities that are the subject of these transactions can increase our risk. In connection with Open Trading\231 or other anonymous protocols, we expect that the number of transactions in which we act as a matched principal will increase.. In the process of executing matched principal transactions, miscommunications and other errors by our clients or us can arise that involve substantial risks of liability. These risks include, among others, potential liability from disputes over the terms of a trade, the settlement of the trade, or claims that we resolved an error trade dispute incorrectly or that a system malfunction or delay caused monetary loss to a client. In addition, because of the ease and speed with which trades can be executed on our electronic platform, clients can lose substantial amounts by inadvertently entering trade instructions or by entering trade orders inaccurately. A significant error trade or a large number of error trades could result in participant dissatisfaction and a decline in participant willingness to trade on our electronic platform. Although we maintain error trade policies designed to protect our Open Trading\231 participants and enable us to manage the risks attendant in acting as a matched principal counterparty, depending on the cause, number and value of the trades that are the subject of an alleged error or dispute, such trades have the potential to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we are required to hold a securities position as a result of an error, there may also be financing costs or regulatory capital charges required to be taken by us.. We have policies and procedures in place to identify and manage our credit risk.  In connection with the recent growth of our Open Trading\231 protocols, we have implemented additional automated controls to help us manage our credit risk exposure.  There can be no assurance that the policies, procedures and automated controls we use to manage this credit risk will effectively mitigate our credit risk exposure. Some of our risk management procedures are reliant upon the evaluation of information regarding the fixed- income markets, our clients or other relevant matters that are publicly available or otherwise acquired from third party sources. Such information may not be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly assessed and interpreted by us. If our risk management procedures fail, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Furthermore, our insurance policies are unlikely to provide coverage for such risks.. We cannot assure you that our compliance and risk management methods will be effective and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected if they fail.. To manage the risks inherent in our business, we must maintain effective policies, procedures and systems that enable us to identify, monitor and control our exposure to financial, legal, regulatory, operational and market risks. Our risk-management methods are based on internally developed controls, observed historical market behavior and what we believe to be industry practices. Our risk-management methods may prove to be ineffective because of their design, their implementation or the lack of adequate, accurate or timely information. Our risk management methods may also fail to identify a risk or understand a risk that might result in losses. If our risk-management policies and efforts are ineffective, we could suffer losses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.. We must rely upon our analysis of information regarding markets, personnel, clients or other matters that is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. That information may not in all cases be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly analyzed. Furthermore, we rely on a combination of technical and human controls and supervision that are subject to error and potential failure, the challenges of which are exacerbated by the 24-hour-a-day, global nature of our business.. Our success in complying with complex and changing laws and navigating risks in various jurisdictions and markets depends on our maintenance of compliance, auditing and reporting systems and risk management procedures, as well as our ability to recruit and retain qualified compliance and risk management personnel. While we have developed policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage our legal, regulatory, operational and market risks, we cannot assure you that our systems will always be effective in monitoring or evaluating the risks to which we are exposed.. 25. Technology and IT Systems Risks. Rapid market or technological changes may render our technology obsolete or decrease the attractiveness of our products and services to our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients.. We must continue to enhance and improve our electronic trading platform. The electronic financial services industry is characterized by significant structural changes, increasingly complex systems and infrastructures, changes in clients' needs and preferences and new business models. If new industry standards and practices emerge and our competitors release new technology before us, our existing technology, systems and electronic trading platform may become obsolete or our existing business may be harmed. Our future success will depend on our ability to:. •  enhance our existing products and services;. •  develop and/or license new products and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients and prospective clients;. •  continue to attract highly-skilled technology personnel; and. •  respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis.. Developing our electronic trading platform and other technology entails significant technical and business risks. We may use new technologies ineffectively or we may fail to adapt our electronic trading platform, information databases and network infrastructure to broker-dealer or institutional investor client requirements or emerging industry standards. If we face material delays in introducing new services, products and enhancements, our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients may forego the use of our products and use those of our competitors.. Further, the adoption of new Internet, networking, telecommunications or blockchain technologies may require us to devote substantial resources to modify and adapt our services. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement new technologies or adapt our proprietary technology and transaction-processing systems to client requirements or emerging industry standards. We cannot assure you that we will be able to respond in a timely manner to changing market conditions or client requirements.. We depend on third-party suppliers for key products and services.. We rely on a number of third parties to supply elements of our trading, information and other systems, as well as computers and other equipment, and related support and maintenance. We cannot assure you that any of these providers will be willing and able to continue to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective manner, if at all, or that they will be able to adequately expand their services to meet our needs. If we are unable to make alternative arrangements for the supply of critical products or services in the event of a malfunction of a product or an interruption in or the cessation of service by an existing service provider, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. In particular, we depend on third-party vendors for our bond reference databases and the clearing and settlement of our Open Trading\231 transactions. Disruptions in the services provided by those third-parties to us, including as a result of their inability or unwillingness to continue to license products or provide services that are critical to the success of our business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We also rely, and expect in the future to continue to rely, on third parties for various computer and communications systems, such as telephone companies, online service providers, data processors, cloud computing and software and hardware vendors. Other third parties provide, for instance, our data center, telecommunications access lines and significant computer systems and software licensing, support and maintenance services. Any interruption in these or other third-party services or deterioration in their performance could impair the quality of our service. We cannot be certain of the financial viability of all of the third parties on which we rely.. We license software from third parties, much of which is integral to our electronic trading platform and our business. We also hire contractors to assist in the development, quality assurance testing and maintenance of our electronic trading platform and other systems. Continued access to these licensors and contractors on favorable contract terms or access to alternative software and information technology contractors is important to our operations. Adverse changes in any of these relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We attempt to negotiate favorable pricing, service, confidentiality and intellectual property ownership or licensing and other terms in our contracts with our third-party service providers. These contracts usually have multi-year terms. However, there is no. 26. guarantee that these contracts will not terminate and that we will be able to negotiate successor agreements or agreements with alternate service providers on competitive terms. Further, the existing agreements may bind us for a period of time to terms and technology that become obsolete as our industry and our competitors advance their own operations and use of technology.. Our success depends on maintaining the integrity and capacity of our electronic trading platform, systems and infrastructure.. In order to be successful, we must provide reliable, secure, real-time access to our electronic trading platform for our clients. If our electronic trading platform is hampered by slow delivery times, unreliable service or insufficient capacity, our clients may decide to stop using our platform, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As our operations grow in both size and scope, we will need to continually improve and upgrade our electronic trading platform and infrastructure to accommodate potential increases in order message volume and trading volume, the trading practices of new and existing clients, regulatory changes and the development of new and enhanced trading platform features, functionalities and ancillary products and services. The expansion of our electronic trading platform and infrastructure has required, and will continue to require, substantial financial, operational and technical resources. These resources will typically need to be committed well in advance of any actual increase in trading volumes and order messages. We cannot assure you that our estimates of future trading volumes and order messages will be accurate or that our systems will always be able to accommodate actual trading volumes and order messages without failure or degradation of performance. Furthermore, we use new technologies to upgrade our established systems, and the development of these new technologies also entails technical, financial and business risks. We cannot assure you that we will successfully implement new technologies or adapt our existing electronic trading platform, technology and systems to the requirements of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients or to emerging industry standards. The inability of our electronic trading platform to accommodate increasing trading volume and order messages would also constrain our ability to expand our business.. Our computer systems may suffer failures and business interruptions that could increase our operating costs and cause us to lose clients.. We cannot assure you that we, or our third-party service providers, will not experience systems failures. Our electronic trading platform, computer and communication systems and other operations are vulnerable to damage, interruption or failure as a result of, among other things:. •  irregular or heavy use of our electronic trading platform during peak trading times or at times of unusual market volatility;. •  power, internet or telecommunications failures, hardware failures or software errors;. •  human error;. •  computer viruses, acts of vandalism or sabotage (and resulting potential lapses in security), both internal and external;. •  natural disasters, fires, floods, widespread health emergencies or other acts of God;. •  acts of war or terrorism (including cyberterrorism) or other armed hostility;. •  cybersecurity breaches; and. •  loss of support services from third parties, including those to whom we outsource aspects of our computer infrastructure critical to our business.. In the event that any of our systems, or those of our third-party providers, fail or operate slowly, it may cause any one or more of the following to occur:. •  unanticipated disruptions in service to our clients;. •  distribution of untimely or inaccurate market data to customers who rely on this data for their trades;. •  slower response times or delays in our clients' trade execution;. •  incomplete or inaccurate accounting, recording or processing of trades;. •  financial losses and liabilities to clients;. •  litigation or other claims against us, including formal complaints to industry regulatory organizations; and. •  regulatory inquiries, proceedings or sanctions.. 27. Any system failure that causes an interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of our service could damage our reputation, business and brand name and lead our clients to decrease or cease their use of our electronic trading platform.. In these circumstances, if we were unable to execute our disaster recovery plans, or our redundant systems and disaster recovery plans proved insufficient for the particular situation, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Similarly, although many of our contracts with our service providers require them to have disaster recovery plans, we cannot be certain that these will be adequate or implemented properly. In addition, our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur.. It is also a risk that we will not have sufficient personnel to properly respond to all such system problems. Our disaster recovery plans are heavily reliant on the availability of the internet and mobile phone technology, so any disruption of those systems would likely affect our ability to recover promptly from a crisis situation.. We internally support and maintain many of our computer systems and networks, including those underlying our electronic trading platform. Our failure to monitor or maintain these systems and networks or, if necessary, to find a replacement for this technology in a timely and cost-effective manner would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Cybersecurity Risks. Malicious cyber-attacks and other adverse events affecting our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause losses or regulatory penalties.. The operation of our electronic trading platform relies on the secure processing, storage and transmission of a large amount of transactional data and other confidential sensitive data (including confidential client and personal information). Although we take protective measures such as security-related software programs, firewalls and similar technology to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our and our customers' information, and endeavor to modify these protective measures as circumstances warrant, the nature of cyber threats continues to evolve. As a result, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data (including confidential customer personal information), unavailability or disruption of service, computer viruses, acts of vandalism, or other malicious code, cyber-attack and other adverse events that could have an adverse security impact. Despite the defensive measures we have taken, these threats may come from external factors such as governments, organized crime, hackers, and other third parties such as infrastructure-support providers and application developers, or may originate internally from an employee or service provider to whom we have granted access to our computer systems. If our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to trading or other confidential or personal information, our reputation could be damaged, our business would suffer and we could incur material liability. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage computer systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures.. We also face the risk of operational disruption, failure or capacity constraints of any of the third party service providers that facilitate our business activities, including clients, clearing agents and network or data providers. Such parties could also be the source of a cyber-attack on or breach of our operational systems, data or infrastructure.. There have been an increasing number of cyber-attacks in recent years in various industries, including ours, and cyber-security risk management has been the subject of increasing focus by our regulators. If one or more cyber-attacks occur, it could potentially jeopardize the confidential, proprietary and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, as well as our customers' or other third parties', operations, which could result in reputational damage, financial losses, customer dissatisfaction and/or regulatory penalties, which may not in all cases by covered by insurance. Any such cyber incidents involving our computer systems and networks, or those of third parties important to our businesses, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Our regulators in recent years have increased their examination and enforcement focus on matters relating to cybersecurity threats, including the assessment of firms' vulnerability to cyber-attacks. In particular, regulatory concerns have been raised about firms establishing effective cybersecurity governance and risk management policies, practices and procedures; protecting firm networks and information; identifying and addressing risks associated with clients, vendors, and other third parties; preventing and detecting unauthorized activities; adopting effective mitigation and business continuity plans to address the impact of cybersecurity breaches; and establishing protocols for reporting cybersecurity incidents. While any insurance that we may have that covers a specific cybersecurity incident may help to prevent our realizing a significant loss from the incident, it would not protect us from the effects of. 28. adverse regulatory actions that may result from the incident or a finding that we had inadequate cybersecurity controls, including the reputational harm that could result from such regulatory actions.. Our remediation costs and lost revenues could be significant if we fall victim to a cyber-attack. If an actual, threatened or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and could cause our clients to reduce or stop their use of our electronic trading platform. We may be required to expend significant resources to repair system damage, protect against the threat of future security breaches or to alleviate problems, including reputational harm, loss of clients and revenues and litigation, caused by any breaches. We may be found liable to our clients for any misappropriated confidential or personal information. Although we intend to continue to implement industry-standard security measures, we cannot assure you that those measures will be sufficient.. Intellectual Property Risks. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights or technology effectively, which would allow competitors to duplicate or replicate our electronic trading platform or any of our other current or future products or services. This could adversely affect our ability to compete.. Intellectual property is critical to our success and ability to compete, and if we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors might gain access to our technology. We rely primarily on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as license agreements, third-party non-disclosure and other agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. We attempt to negotiate beneficial intellectual property ownership provisions in our contracts and also require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements in order to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information. We have been issued 13 patents covering aspects of our technology and/or business, but can give no assurances that any such patents will protect our business and processes from competition or that any patents applied for in the future will be issued. Additionally, laws and our contractual terms may not be sufficient to protect our technology from use or theft by third parties. For instance, a third party might reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our technology without our permission and without our knowledge, thereby infringing our rights and allowing competitors to duplicate or replicate our products. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that these protections will be adequate to prevent our competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology.. We may have legal or contractual rights that we could assert against illegal use of our intellectual property rights, but lawsuits claiming infringement or misappropriation are complex and expensive, and the outcome would not be certain. In addition, the laws of some countries in which we now or in the future provide our services may not protect software and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States.. Defending against intellectual property infringement or other claims could be expensive and disruptive to our business. If we are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we could be required to redesign our products, pay royalties or enter into license agreements with third parties.. In the technology industry, there is frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. As the number of participants in our market increases and the number of patents and other intellectual property registrations increases, the possibility of an intellectual property claim against us grows. Although we have never been the subject of a material intellectual property dispute, we cannot assure you that a third party will not assert in the future that our technology or the manner in which we operate our business violates its intellectual property rights. From time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to legal proceedings and claims relating to the intellectual property rights of others, and we expect that third parties may assert intellectual property claims against us, particularly as we expand the complexity and scope of our business, the number of electronic trading platforms increases and the functionality of these platforms further overlaps. Any claims, whether with or without merit, could:. •  be expensive and time-consuming to defend;. •  prevent us from operating our business, or portions of our business;. •  cause us to cease developing, licensing or using all or any part of our electronic trading platform that incorporates the challenged intellectual property;. •  require us to redesign our products or services, which may not be feasible;. •  result in significant monetary liability;. •  divert management's attention and resources; and. 29. •  require us to pay royalties or enter into licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies, which may not be possible on commercially reasonable terms.. We cannot assure you that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future with respect to our electronic trading platform or any of our other current or future products or services or that any such assertion will not require us to cease providing such services or products, try to redesign our products or services, enter into royalty arrangements, if available, or engage in litigation that could be costly to us. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Possible Transactions or Investments. If we acquire or invest in other businesses, products or technologies, we may be unable to integrate them with our business, our financial performance may be impaired or we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for any such transactions.. We have in the past and may in the future acquire or invest in companies, products or technologies that we believe are strategic. We may not be able to identify, negotiate or finance any future acquisition or investment successfully. Even if we do succeed in acquiring or investing in a business, product or technology, such acquisitions and investments may involve a number of risks, including:. •  we may find that the acquired company or assets do not further our business strategy, or that we overpaid for the company or assets, or the economic conditions underlying our acquisition decision may change;. •  we may have difficulty integrating the acquired technologies or products with our existing electronic trading platform, products and services;. •  we may have difficulty integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired business, or retaining the key personnel of the acquired business;. •  there may be client confusion if our services overlap with those of the acquired company and we may have difficulty retaining key customers, vendors and other business partners of the acquired business;. •  our ongoing business and management's attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically or culturally diverse enterprises;. •  entry into markets in which we have limited experience and where competitors hold stronger market positions;. •  potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant problems, liabilities or other challenges of an acquired company or product; and. •  exposure to litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risk as a result of, an acquisition, including but not limited to, claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders or other third parties.. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or multiple acquisitions in a short period of time. From time to time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions or investments that are not ultimately consummated. Such negotiations could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as out-of-pocket costs.. The consideration paid in connection with an investment or acquisition also affects our financial results. If we were to proceed with one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash to consummate any acquisition. To the extent we issue shares of capital stock or other rights to purchase capital stock, including options or other rights, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. In addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, large one-time write-offs, such as of acquired in-process research and development costs, and restructuring charges.. 30. Our investments in expanding our information and post-trade services businesses may not produce substantial revenue or profit.. With respect to our information and post-trade services businesses, we may incur substantial development, sales and marketing expenses and expend significant management effort to create a new product or service. Even after incurring these costs, we ultimately may not sell any or sell only small amounts of these products or services. Consequently, if revenue does not increase in a timely fashion as a result of these expansion and development initiatives, the up-front costs associated with them may exceed the related revenue and reduce our working capital and income.. We may be required to recognize impairments of our goodwill or other intangible assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.. The determination of the value of goodwill and other intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. We test for impairment of goodwill on an annual basis, at year-end, or more frequently if there are changed circumstances. We assess intangible assets for impairment when events or circumstances indicate the existence of a possible impairment.. Determining the fair value of certain assets acquired and liabilities assumed is judgmental in nature and requires management to use significant estimates and assumptions, including assumptions with respect to future cash flows, discount rates, growth rates and asset lives. Any future acquisition may result in goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests, which could result in future impairment charges.. Risks Related to Key Personnel and Employees. We are dependent on our management team, and the loss of any key member of this team may prevent us from implementing our business plan in a timely manner.. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel, particularly Richard M. McVey, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our Board of Directors. The terms of Mr. McVey's employment agreement with us do not require him to continue to work for us and allow him to terminate his employment at any time, subject to certain notice requirements and forfeiture of non-vested equity compensation awards. We do not maintain \"key person\" life insurance on any of our executive officers and other key personnel. Any loss or interruption of Mr. McVey's services or that of one or more of our other executive officers or key personnel for any reason, as well as any negative market or industry perception arising from such loss or interruption, could result in our inability to manage our operations effectively and/or pursue our business strategy.. Because competition for our employees is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our business.. We strive to provide high-quality services that will allow us to establish and maintain long-term relationships with our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. Our ability to provide these services and maintain these relationships, as well as our ability to execute our business plan generally, depends in large part upon our employees. We must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, especially for software engineers with extensive experience in designing and developing software and Internet-related services, hardware engineers, technicians, product managers and senior sales executives.. The market for qualified personnel has become increasingly competitive as an increasing number of existing and new competitors focus on the electronic trading of credit products.   Many of these competitive ventures are interested in hiring our experienced technology personnel and our qualified sales staff.  Additionally, highly innovative technology firms may offer attractive employment opportunities to our technology personnel.  Many of these firms have greater resources than we have and are able to offer more lucrative compensation packages.  In addition, in making employment decisions, particularly in the Internet, high-technology and financial services industries, job candidates often consider the total compensation package offered, including the value of the stock-based compensation they are to receive in connection with their employment. Significant volatility in the price of our common stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain key employees. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. The failure to attract new personnel or to retain and motivate our current personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 31. Regulatory Risks. We operate in a highly regulated industry and we may face restrictions with respect to the way we conduct certain of our operations.. Our business is subject to increasingly extensive governmental and other regulations.  These regulations are designed to protect public interests generally rather than the interests of our stockholders. The SEC, FINRA, the CFTC and other agencies extensively regulate the United States financial services industry, including most of our operations in the United States. Much of our international operations are subject to similar regulations in their respective jurisdictions, including regulations overseen by the FCA in the United Kingdom, the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority in Switzerland, the Monetary Authority of Singapore, the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission, the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada and provincial regulators in Canada, and the Securities and Exchange Commission and Central Bank in Brazil.  In addition, Xtrakter is registered as an ARM and APA with the FCA.. As a matter of public policy, these regulatory bodies are responsible for safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and protecting the interests of investors in those markets. These regulatory bodies have broad powers to promulgate and interpret, investigate and sanction non-compliance with their laws, rules and regulations.. Most aspects of our broker-dealer and other licensed subsidiaries are highly regulated, including:. •  the way we deal with our clients;. •  our capital requirements;. •  our financial and regulatory reporting practices;. •  required record-keeping and record retention procedures;. •  the licensing of our employees; and. •  the conduct of our directors, officers, employees and affiliates.. We cannot assure you that we and/or our directors, officers and employees will be able to fully comply with these laws, rules and regulations. If we fail to comply with any of these laws, rules or regulations, we may be subject to censure, fines, cease-and-desist orders, suspension of our business, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our membership in FINRA and registration as a broker-dealer.. Certain of our regulated subsidiaries, including our registered broker-dealer and MTF, are subject to U.S. or foreign regulations which prohibit repayment of borrowings from the us or our affiliates, paying cash dividends, making loans to us or our affiliates or otherwise entering into transactions that result in a significant reduction in regulatory net capital or financial resources, without prior notification to or approval from such subsidiary's principal regulator.  MarketAxess SEF Corporation is registered with the CFTC as a SEF and is required, among other things, to maintain sufficient financial resources to cover operating costs for at least one year.. Our authority to operate our platform in a jurisdiction is dependent on continued registration or authorization in that jurisdiction or the maintenance of a proper exemption from such registration or authorization. Our ability to comply with all applicable laws and rules is largely dependent on our compliance, credit approval, audit and reporting systems and procedures, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance, credit approval, audit and risk management personnel. Our systems and procedures may not be sufficiently effective to prevent a violation of all applicable rules and regulations. In addition, the growth and expansion of our business may create additional strain on our compliance systems, procedures and personnel and has resulted, and we expect will continue to result, in increased costs to maintain and improve these systems.. In addition, because our industry is heavily regulated, regulatory approval may be required in order to continue or expand our business activities and we may not be able to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Even if approvals are obtained, they may impose restrictions on our business or we may not be able to continue to comply with the terms of the approvals or applicable regulations. The implementation of unfavorable regulations or unfavorable interpretations of existing regulations by courts or regulatory bodies could require us to incur significant compliance costs or cause the development or continuation of business activities in affected markets to become impractical. For a further description of the regulations which may limit our activities, see \"Item 1. Business - Government Regulation.\". 32. Some of our subsidiaries are subject to regulations regarding changes in control of their ownership. These regulations generally provide that regulatory approval must be obtained in connection with any transaction resulting in a change in control of the subsidiary, which may include changes in control of MarketAxess. As a result of these regulations, our future efforts to sell shares or raise additional capital may be delayed or prohibited in circumstances in which such a transaction would give rise to a change in control as defined by the applicable regulatory body.. Our business and the trading businesses of many of our clients are subject to increasingly extensive government and other regulation, which may affect our trading volumes and increase our cost of doing business.. The financial services industry, in general, is heavily regulated. Proposals for legislation further regulating the financial services industry are continually being introduced in the United States Congress, in state legislatures and by foreign governments. The government agencies that regulate us continuously review legislative and regulatory initiatives, may adopt new or revised laws and regulations and have broad powers to investigate and enforce compliance and punish noncompliance with their rules, regulations and industry standards of practice. In light of recent conditions in the global financial markets and economy, regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. We are unable to predict which of these proposals will be implemented or in what form, or whether any additional or similar changes to statutes or regulations, including the interpretation or implementation thereof, will occur in the future. Any such action could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business and that of our clients are also affected by the policies adopted by the Federal Reserve and international central banking authorities, which may affect the credit quality of our customers or increase the cost for our customers to trade the instruments on our platform. In addition, such changes in monetary policy may directly impact our cost of funds for capital raising and investment activities and may impact the value of financial instruments we hold. Changes in domestic and international monetary policy are beyond our control and are difficult to predict.. In addition, regulatory bodies in Europe have recently developed new rules for the fixed-income markets. MiFID II and MiFIR were implemented in January 2018 and introduced significant changes in market structure designed to: (i) enhance pre- and post-trade transparency for fixed income instruments with the scope of requirements calibrated for liquidity, (ii) increase and enhance post-trade reporting obligations with a requirement to submit post-trade data to ARMs, (iii) ensure trading of certain derivatives occurs on regulated trading venues and (iv) establish a consolidated tape for trade data. MiFID II and MiFIR may have an adverse effect on our operations or our ability to provide our electronic trading platform in a manner that can successfully compete against other types of regulated and non-regulated venues for the fixed-income trading needs of our clients. In addition, MiFID II has caused us to expend significantly more compliance, business and technology resources, incur additional operational costs and create additional regulatory exposure for our trading and post-trade businesses. We cannot predict the extent to which any of these new regulations or future regulatory changes will impact our European business and operations, but they may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Any changes in laws or regulations or in governmental policies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our industry has been and is subject to continuous regulatory changes and may become subject to new regulations or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing regulations, which could require us to incur significant compliance costs or cause the development and growth of impacted markets to become impractical. For example, the Volcker Rule section of the Dodd-Frank Act bans proprietary trading by banks and their affiliates, which could adversely affect our bank-affiliated broker-dealer clients' ability to make markets in a variety of fixed-income securities, thereby negatively impacting the level of liquidity and pricing available on our trading platform. Other regulatory initiatives include Basel III, a global regulatory standard on bank capital adequacy designed to strengthen bank capital requirements and liquidity in most of the world's major economies by 2019. The implementation of these rules could restrict the ability of our bank-affiliated broker-dealer clients to raise additional capital or use existing capital for trading purposes, which might cause them to trade less on our platform. In addition, as we expand our business into new markets, it is likely that we will be subject to additional laws, rules and regulations. We cannot predict the extent to which any future regulatory changes may adversely affect our business and operations.. Our disclosed trading system has not been subjected to regulation as an alternative trading system under Regulation ATS. A determination by the SEC to treat our disclosed trading platform as an alternative trading system subject to Regulation ATS would subject us to additional reporting obligations, compliance and operational costs and other limitations on the conduct of our business, many of which could be material. If we offer a trading methodology subject to oversight under Regulation ATS in the future, such as a central limit order book for the trading of bonds or other similar automated matching services, these protocols would likely be regulated as an alternative trading system subject to Regulation ATS, which could increase our compliance and operational costs and create additional regulatory exposure for our businesses.. The activities and consequences described above may result in significant distractions to our management and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 33. The extensive regulation of our business means we have ongoing exposure to potentially significant costs and penalties.. Our businesses are subject to regulation by governmental and self-regulatory organizations in the jurisdictions in which we operate around the world. Many of these regulators, including U.S. and non-U.S. government agencies and self-regulatory organizations, as well as state securities commissions in the U.S., are empowered to bring enforcement actions and to conduct administrative proceedings and examinations, inspections, and investigations, which may result in costs, penalties, fines, enhanced oversight, additional requirements, restrictions, or limitations, and censure, suspension, or expulsion. Self-regulatory organizations such as FINRA and the National Futures Association (\"NFA\"), along with statutory bodies such as the SEC, the CFTC, and the FCA, and other international regulators, require strict compliance with their rules and regulations.. Firms in the financial services industry have experienced increased scrutiny in recent years, and penalties, fines and other sanctions sought by regulatory authorities, including the SEC, the CFTC, FINRA, the NFA, state securities commissions and state attorney generals in the U.S., and the FCA in the U.K. and other international regulators, have increased accordingly. Accordingly, we face the risk of regulatory intervention, investigations and proceedings, any of which could involve extensive scrutiny of our activities and result in significant fines and liability. Any of these developments would require significant time and financial resources and could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and operating results.. Legal Risks. In the event of employee error or misconduct, our business may be harmed.. Employee misconduct or error could expose us to significant liability, financial losses, regulatory sanctions and reputational harm. Misconduct or error by employees could include engaging in improperly using our confidential information or the confidential or personal information of our clients or engaging in improper or unauthorized activities or transactions.. Our employees could carry out improper activities on behalf of our clients, or use proprietary client or company information for personal or other improper or illegal uses. Employee errors also expose us to the risk of material loss until such errors are detected and unauthorized transactions or improper activities are reversed.. Errors and misconduct by our current or former employees could cause us to suffer financial losses, regulatory sanctions and reputational harm. The precautions we take to monitor and prevent employee errors and misconduct may not be effective in all cases.. We are subject to the risks of litigation and securities laws liability.. Many aspects of our business, and the businesses of our clients, involve substantial risks of liability. Dissatisfied clients may make claims against us regarding quality of trade execution, improperly settled trades, resolution of trade error claims, system failures, failure to protect to their confidential or personal information, mismanagement or even fraud. We may become subject to these claims as the result of delays, failures or malfunctions of our electronic trading platform and services provided by us. We could incur significant legal expenses defending claims, even those without merit. An adverse resolution of any lawsuits or claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Growing our U.S. and International Operations. We may face increasing economic and regulatory challenges in our growing international operations that we may not be able to meet in the future.. We operate an electronic trading platform in Europe, Latin America and Asia and we may further expand our operations throughout these and other regions.  We have invested significant resources in our foreign operations and the increasing globalization of our platform and services.  However, there are certain risks inherent in doing business in international markets, particularly in the financial services industry, which is heavily regulated in many jurisdictions. These risks include:. •  difficulty in obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals for planned expansion, if at all, and the possibility that any approvals that are obtained may impose restrictions on the operation of our business;. •  the inability to manage and coordinate the various regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions that are constantly evolving and subject to unexpected change;. •  difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations;. •  less developed technological infrastructures and generally higher costs, which could result in lower client acceptance of our services or clients having difficulty accessing our trading platform;. 34. •  fluctuations in exchange rates;. •  reduced or no protection for intellectual property rights;. •  seasonal reductions in business activity; and. •  potentially adverse tax consequences.. Our international operations are also subject to the legal, economic and market risks associated with geopolitical uncertainties in other regions of the world, including but not limited to the risk of war, inter and intra national conflict, economic crises and terrorism.. In addition, we must comply with the laws, regulations and registration rules of foreign governments and regulatory bodies for each country in which we conduct business. For example, MiFID II and MiFIR were implemented by regulatory bodies in Europe in January 2018. We cannot predict the extent to which any of these new regulations or future regulatory changes may impact our European business and operations, but they may cause us to expend significantly more compliance, business and technology resources, incur additional operational costs and create additional regulatory exposure.. We cannot predict what future actions that the regulatory bodies that supervise our business might take, or the impact that any such actions may have on our business. In addition, Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. determines which E.U. laws to replace or replicate. Our compliance with these changing laws and regulations may be costly and time-consuming and may have a material adverse effect on our clients' trading activities on our platform.. Further, we may face unexpected challenges in our international operations due to global competitors, established local markets, and economic and political instability. Our inability to manage these risks effectively could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to expand our international operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our growth initiatives may place significant strain on management and other resources.. We have significantly expanded our business activities and operations over the last several years. Continued growth, both domestic and international, will require further investment in management and new personnel, infrastructure and compliance systems. The expansion of our international operations involves risks that may have an adverse effect on our business and operations, such as the challenge of effectively managing and staffing our international operations, complying with increased and varied regulatory requirements and entering new markets. In addition, we may incur substantial development, sales and marketing expenses and expend significant management effort to create a new product or service, and the period before the product or service is successfully developed, introduced and adopted may extend over many months or years. Even after incurring these costs, our clients may determine that they do not need or prefer the product or service.. We may not be able to manage our growth efficiently, which could result in our expansion costs increasing at a faster rate than our revenues and distracting management from our core business and operations. If we cannot successfully implement the necessary processes to support and manage new initiatives, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer.. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial results.. We conduct operations in several different countries outside the U.S., most notably the U.K., and substantial portions of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are denominated in non U.S. dollar currencies. Since our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues, income and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Accordingly, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against the other currencies will affect our net operating revenues, operating income and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies.. Although we have entered into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge our net investment in our U.K. subsidiaries and may enter into additional hedging transactions in the future to help mitigate our foreign exchange risk exposure, these hedging arrangements may not be effective, particularly in the event of inaccurate forecasts of the levels of our non-U.S. denominated assets and liabilities. Accordingly, if there are adverse movements in exchange rates, we may suffer significant losses, which would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. 35. Liquidity and Funding Risks. We cannot predict our future capital needs or our ability to obtain additional financing if we need it.. Our business is dependent upon the availability of adequate funding and regulatory capital under applicable regulatory requirements. Although we believe that our available cash resources and borrowing capacity under our credit agreement are sufficient to meet our presently anticipated liquidity needs and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months, we may in the future need to raise additional funds to, among other things:. •  support more rapid growth of our business;. •  develop new or enhanced services and products;. •  fund operating losses;. •  respond to competitive pressures;. •  acquire complementary companies or technologies;. •  enter into strategic alliances;. •  increase the regulatory net capital necessary to support our operations; or. •  respond to unanticipated or changing capital requirements.. The growth of our Open Trading\231 protocols, in particular, is dependent on the willingness of our customers and counterparties to engage in transactions with us and any perceived issues with our capital levels or access to funding could have a material adverse effect on business. In addition, our liquidity could be impaired due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects our trading customers or counterparties, other third parties or us.. All or part of any debt financing would likely be pursuant to the terms of our credit agreement with JPMorgan Chase & Co., which includes restrictive covenants with respect to dividends, issuances of additional capital and other financial and operational matters related to our business. For a detailed discussion of the risks associated with our credit agreement, see the Risk Factor captioned \"Our credit agreement contains restrictive and financial covenants that could limit our operating flexibility, and we may incur additional debt in the future that may include similar or additional restrictions.\". In the future, we may not be able to obtain additional financing, if needed, in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If sufficient funds are not available or are not available on terms acceptable to us, our ability to fund our expansion, take advantage of acquisition opportunities, develop or enhance our services or products, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. These limitations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our credit agreement contains restrictive and financial covenants that could limit our operating flexibility, and we may incur additional debt in the future that may include similar or additional restrictions.. We are party to a credit agreement with JPMorgan Chase & Co. that provides for revolving loans and letters of credit up to an aggregate of $100.0 million. Subject to the satisfaction of certain specified conditions, we are permitted to upsize the borrowing capacity of the credit agreement by an additional $50.0 million. Our credit agreement contains certain covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to take certain actions, even if we believe them to be in our best interests. These covenants restrict or prohibit, among other things, our ability to:. •  incur or guarantee additional debt;. •  create or incur liens;. •  change our line of business;. •  sell or transfer assets;. •  make certain investments or acquisitions;. •  pay dividends or distributions, redeem or repurchase our equity or make certain other restricted payments;. •  consummate a merger or consolidation;. •  enter into certain swap, derivative or similar transactions;. 36. •  enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and. •  incur restrictions on our ability to grant liens or, in the case of subsidiaries, pay dividends or other distributions.. We are also required by our credit agreement to maintain a maximum consolidated leverage ratio, a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio and a minimum consolidated adjusted EBITDA level. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet these requirements or satisfy these covenants in the future. A breach of any of these covenants or the inability to comply with the required financial covenants could result in an event of default under the credit agreement. If any such event of default occurs, the lender under the credit agreement could elect to declare all amounts outstanding and accrued and unpaid interest under the credit agreement to be immediately due and payable, and could foreclose on the assets securing the credit agreement. The lender would also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments it has to provide further credit extensions. We may incur other indebtedness in the future that may contain financial or other covenants more restrictive than those applicable to the credit agreement.. 37. Risks Related to our Internal Controls. As a public company, we are subject to certain financial and corporate governance requirements that may be difficult for us to satisfy and may divert management's attention from our business.. We are subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (\"SOX\") and the related SEC rules and regulations that call for our management to conduct an annual assessment and report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm must also issue an annual report addressing the operating effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting.. While our internal controls over financial reporting currently meet the standards set forth in SOX, failure to maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot be certain of our ability to continue to comply with the requirements of SOX. If we are unable to continue to comply with the requirements of SOX in an efficient manner, we may be subject to regulatory action. In addition, in the event that we identify a material weakness, there can be no assurance that we would be able to remediate such material weakness in an efficient manner. Moreover, if we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in any future period (or if our auditors are unable to issue an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls), we could suffer reputational harm and incur significant expenses to restructure our internal controls over financial reporting, which may have a material adverse effect on us.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Market volatility and future sales of our shares by significant stockholders may cause our stock price and the value of your investment to decline.. The market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by volatility in the markets in general. The market price of our common stock likely will continue to fluctuate in response to factors including the following:. •  the other risk factors described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K;. •  prevailing interest rates;. •  the market for similar securities;. •  changes in the nature of our stockholder base;. •  additional issuances of common stock;. •  general economic conditions; and. •  our financial condition, performance and prospects, including our ability or inability to meet analyst expectations.. Most of these factors are beyond our control. In addition, the stock markets in general, including the NASDAQ Global Select Market, have experienced and continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have resulted in volatility in the market prices of securities for companies such as ours that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to changes in the operating performance of the affected companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may affect adversely the market price of our common stock regardless of our operating performance.. In addition, future sales of our common stock, or the perception of potential future sales, may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. If any one or more of our existing stockholders were to sell a large number of shares, the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected. Also, if we issue a large number of shares of our common stock in connection with a public offering, future acquisition, strategic alliance, third-party investment and private placement or otherwise, the market price of our common stock could decline considerably. Furthermore, our stockholders may be diluted by such future sales.. We may decrease or cease paying dividends on our common stock in the future.. We initiated a regular quarterly dividend on our common stock in 2009. However, there is no assurance that we will continue to pay any dividends to holders of our common stock in the future or, if we continue paying dividends, that such dividends will be paid at the rate at which they were paid in prior periods. If we were to decrease the dividend rate or cease paying dividends, investors may need to rely on the sale of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the primary or only way to realize any future gains on their investment.. 38. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline.. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. These analysts work independently of us. If one or more analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price could decline rapidly. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline.. Provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management, and therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock.. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it substantially more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us and may prevent changes in our management, including provisions that:. •  prevent stockholders from calling special meetings;. •  allow the directors to amend the bylaws without stockholder approval; and. •  set forth advance notice procedures for nominating directors and submitting proposals for consideration at stockholders' meetings.. Provisions of Delaware law may also inhibit potential acquisition bids for us or prevent us from engaging in business combinations. In addition, we have a severance agreement with one employee and a change of control severance plan that could require an acquirer to pay a higher price. Either collectively or individually, these provisions may prevent holders of our common stock from benefiting from what they may believe are the positive aspects of acquisitions and takeovers, including the potential realization of a higher rate of return on their investment from these types of transactions.. 39"
