[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. The following factors are important and should be considered carefully in connection with any evaluation of our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects, or an investment in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect our company or our financial results. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations or affect our financial results.. Our business is subject to general economic and business factors that are largely beyond our control, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results. Our business is dependent on a number of general economic and business factors that may have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include excess capacity in the trucking industry, strikes or other work stoppages, and significant increases or fluctuations in interest rates, fuel taxes, fuel prices, and license and registration fees. We are affected by recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers’ business cycles, particularly in market segments and industries where we have a significant concentration of customers. Economic conditions may adversely affect our customers and their ability to pay for our services.. It is not possible to predict the effects of actual or threatened armed conflicts or terrorist attacks, efforts to combat terrorism, military action against any foreign state, heightened security requirements, or other related events and the subsequent effects on the economy or on consumer confidence in the United States, or the impact, if any, on our future results of operations.. Instability of the credit markets and the resulting effects on the economy could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. If the credit markets and the economy weaken, our business, financial results, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, especially if consumer confidence declines and domestic spending decreases. We may need to incur additional indebtedness, which may include drawing on our credit facility, or issue debt securities in the future to fund working capital requirements, make investments, or for general corporate purposes. Additionally, stresses in the credit market causes uncertainty in the equity markets, which may result in volatility of the market price for our securities.. We operate in a highly competitive and fragmented industry, and numerous competitive factors could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability. We compete with many other truckload carriers that provide temperature-sensitive service of varying sizes and, to a lesser extent, with less-than-truckload carriers, railroads and other transportation companies, many of which have more equipment, a wider range of services and greater capital resources than we do or have other competitive advantages. In particular, several of the largest truckload carriers that offer primarily dry-van service also offer temperature-sensitive service, and these carriers could attempt to increase their business in the temperature-sensitive market. Many of our competitors periodically reduce their freight rates to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates or maintain significant growth in our business. In addition, many customers reduce the number of carriers they use by selecting so-called “core carriers” as approved service providers, or conduct bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and in some instances we may not be selected as a core carrier or to provide service under such bids.. In addition, the trend toward consolidation in the trucking industry may create other large carriers with greater financial resources and other competitive advantages relating to their size. Competition from freight logistics and brokerage companies may negatively impact our customer relationships and freight rates. Furthermore, economies of scale that may be passed on to smaller carriers by procurement aggregation providers may improve such carriers’ ability to compete with us.. 6. If the growth in our regional operations declines, or if we expand into a market with insufficient economic activity, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We operate regional service centers which are located in a number of cities within the United States. In order to support future growth, these regional operations require the commitment of additional capital, revenue equipment and facilities along with qualified management, drivers and other personnel. Should the growth in our regional operations decline, the results of our operations could be adversely affected. It may become more difficult to identify additional cities that can support service centers, and we may expand into cities where there is insufficient economic activity, reduced capacity for growth or less driver and non-driver personnel to support our operations. We may encounter operating conditions in these new markets that materially differ from our current operations and customer relationships may be difficult to obtain at appropriate freight rates. Also, we may not be able to apply our regional operating strategy successfully in additional cities, and it might take longer than expected or require a more substantial financial commitment than anticipated to establish our operations in the additional cities.. Increased prices and restricted availability of new revenue equipment could cause our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows to suffer. We have experienced higher prices for new tractors and trailers over the past few years, primarily as a result of higher commodity prices and government regulations applicable to newly manufactured tractors and trailers. We expect to continue to pay increased prices for revenue equipment for the foreseeable future. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to continue to obtain an adequate supply of new tractors and trailers or if we have to pay increased prices for new revenue equipment.. The EPA adopted revised emissions control regulations, which required progressive reductions in exhaust emissions from diesel engines. The last of three stepped reductions in exhaust emissions was effective for engines manufactured in January 2010 and thereafter. Since the beginning of 2016, all of the company-owned tractors in our fleet have tractor engines that were manufactured in January 2010 or thereafter and, therefore, were required to meet the revised design requirements. Compliance with these regulations has increased the cost of new tractors as manufacturers have significantly increased new equipment prices, in part to meet the more stringent engine design requirements imposed by the EPA.. We have significant ongoing capital requirements that could harm our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows if we are unable to generate sufficient cash from our operations. The truckload industry is capital intensive, and our policy of operating newer equipment requires us to expend significant amounts annually. If we elect to expand our fleet in future periods, our capital needs would increase. We expect to pay for projected capital expenditures with cash flows from operations and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations and obtain financing on favorable terms in the future, we may have to limit our growth, enter into less favorable financing arrangements, or operate our revenue equipment for longer periods, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our profitability.. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from our major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from our major customers. For 2017, our top 30 customers, based on revenue, accounted for approximately 64% of our revenue; our top ten customers accounted for approximately 45% of our revenue; our top five customers accounted for approximately 36% of our revenue; our top two customers accounted for approximately 28% of our revenue; and our largest customer accounted for approximately 19% of our revenue. Generally, other than for our Dedicated operations, we enter into one-year contracts with our major customers, the majority of which do not contain any firm obligations to ship with us. We cannot ensure that, upon expiration of existing contracts, these customers will continue to use our services or that, if they do, they will continue at the same levels. Many of our customers periodically solicit bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress freight rates or result in loss of business to our competitors. Some of our customers also operate their own private trucking fleets, and they may decide to transport more of their own freight. A reduction in or termination of our services by one or more of our major customers could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results.. 7. Ongoing insurance and claims expenses could significantly affect our earnings. Our future insurance and claims expense might exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. We self-insure for a portion of our claims exposure resulting from workers’ compensation, auto liability, general liability, cargo and property damage claims, as well as employees’ health insurance. We also are responsible for our legal expenses relating to such claims. We reserve currently for anticipated losses and expenses. We periodically evaluate and adjust our claims reserves to reflect our experience. However, ultimate results may differ from our estimates, which could result in losses over our reserved amounts.. We maintain insurance above the amounts for which we self-insure with licensed insurance carriers. Although we believe the aggregate insurance limits should be sufficient to cover reasonably expected claims, it is possible that one or more claims could exceed our aggregate coverage limits. Insurance carriers have raised premiums for many businesses, including trucking companies. As a result, our insurance and claims expense has increased. If these expenses increase, or if we experience a claim in excess of our coverage limits, or we experience a claim for which coverage is not provided, results of our operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. We operate in a highly regulated industry and increased costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a materially adverse effect on our business. The DOT and various state and local agencies exercise broad powers over our business, generally governing such activities as authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, safety and insurance requirements. Our company drivers and independent contractors also must comply with the safety and fitness regulations promulgated by the DOT, including those relating to drug and alcohol testing and hours-of-service. We also may become subject to new or more restrictive regulations relating to fuel emissions, ergonomics, or other matters affecting safety or operating methods. Other agencies, such as the EPA and the Department of Homeland Security, or DHS, also regulate our equipment, operations, and drivers. Future laws and regulations may be more stringent and require changes in our operating practices, influence the demand for transportation services, or require us to incur significant additional costs. Higher costs incurred by us or by our suppliers who pass the costs onto us through higher prices could adversely affect our results of operations.. The DOT, through the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, or FMCSA, imposes safety and fitness regulations on us and our drivers. In December 2010, the FMCSA introduced the Compliance, Safety, Accountability, or CSA, system to measure and evaluate the on-road safety performance of commercial carriers and individual drivers. CSA’s Motor Carrier Safety Measurement System replaced the former SafeStat system and has removed a number of drivers from the industry as carriers are less willing to hire and retain drivers with marginal ratings, which has increased competition for qualified drivers. The FMCSA issued in January 2016 a proposed Safety Fitness Determination rule that would replace the current system utilizing CSA scores. The proposed methodology would integrate on-road safety data from inspections with the results of carrier investigations and accident reports. A final rule has not yet been issued.. The FMCSA issued a regulatory rule effective in July 2013 that revised the hours-of-service requirements for drivers, which designate the length of time that drivers are allowed to drive and work. The rule retained the 11-hour driving maximum under which the industry has been operating since 2004. However, changes to the “34-hour restart” provision and required breaks effectively reduced the maximum workweek for drivers. These changes reduced on-duty non-driving time and moderately decreased industry productivity. Omnibus bills adopted in each of December 2014, December 2015 and December 2016 have suspended the additional restrictions effective in July 2013 to the “34-hour restart” provision. The restart rules are required by law to remain suspended until a comprehensive study on the impact of the rules is presented to Congress, who will determine any policy changes based on their review. This review has not yet taken place.. In January 2011, the FMCSA issued a regulatory proposal that would require commercial carriers to track compliance with hours-of-service regulations using electronic logging devices, or ELD’s, which was vacated and sent back to the FMCSA for further analysis and review in September 2011 by the 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. The Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act, or MAP-21 Act, included a provision directing the FMCSA to develop a final ELD rule in 2013, which was delayed until its issuance in December 2015. The final rule required compliance beginning in December 2017 but will not be strictly enforced until April 2018. Our entire tractor fleet has been equipped with ELD’s since early 2011.. From time to time, various federal, state, or local taxes are increased, including taxes on fuels. We cannot predict whether, or in what form, any such increase applicable to us will be enacted, but such an increase could adversely affect our profitability.. 8. Increases in compensation or difficulty in attracting drivers could affect our profitability and ability to grow. The transportation industry has historically experienced substantial difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers, including independent contractors. With increased competition for drivers, including the impact that regulatory changes mandated by CSA have on the number of drivers in the transportation industry, we could experience greater difficulty in attracting sufficient numbers of qualified drivers. In addition, the available pool of independent contractor drivers is smaller than it has been historically. Accordingly, we may face difficulty in attracting and retaining drivers for all of our current tractors and for those we may add. Additionally, we may face difficulty in increasing the number of our independent contractor drivers. In addition, our industry suffers from high turnover rates of drivers. Our turnover rate requires us to recruit a substantial number of drivers. Moreover, our turnover rate could increase. If we are unable to continue to attract drivers and contract with independent contractors, we could be required to continue adjusting our driver compensation package beyond the norm or let trucks sit idle. An increase in our expenses or in the number of tractors without drivers could materially and adversely affect our growth and profitability.. If demand declines for our used revenue equipment, it could result in decreased equipment sales, resale values, and gains on sales of assets. The market for used revenue equipment is subject to a number of factors, including fluctuations in demand and prices. We do not have any agreements with tractor manufacturers pursuant to which they agree to repurchase our tractors or guarantee a residual value. As such, we are sensitive to changes in used equipment prices and demand, especially with respect to tractors. Reduced demand for used equipment could result in a lower volume of sales or lower sales prices, either of which could negatively affect our gains on sales of assets.. We depend on the stability, availability and security of the technology related to our management information and communication systems, which may prove to be inadequate. We depend upon our management information and communication systems for the efficient operation of our business. Our systems are used for receiving, planning and optimizing loads, communicating with and monitoring our drivers, tractors and trailers, billing customers and financial reporting. In addition, some of our key software has been developed internally by our programmers or by adapting purchased software to our needs and this software may not be easily modified or integrated with other software and systems. Our operations are potentially vulnerable to interruption by natural disasters, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, internet failures, computer viruses, malware, hacking, and other events beyond our control. Although we have taken steps to prevent and mitigate service interruptions and data security threats, the operational and security risks associated with information technology systems have increased in recent years because of the complexity of the systems and the sophistication and amount of cyber attacks. Our business would be materially and adversely affected if our management information and communication systems are compromised or disrupted by a failure or security breach or if we are unable to improve, upgrade, integrate or expand our systems as we continue to execute our growth strategy.. Fluctuations in the price or availability of fuel may increase our cost of operation, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. We require large amounts of diesel fuel to operate our tractors and to power the temperature-control units on our trailers. Fuel is one of our largest operating expenses. Fuel prices tend to fluctuate, and prices and availability of all petroleum products are subject to political, economic and market factors that are beyond our control. We depend primarily on fuel surcharges, auxiliary power units for our tractors, satellite tracking equipment for the temperature-control units on our trailers, volume purchasing arrangements with truck stop chains and bulk purchases of fuel at our terminals to control and recover our fuel expenses. There can be no assurance that we will be able to collect fuel surcharges, enter into volume purchase agreements, or execute successful hedges in the future. Additionally, we may encounter decreases in productivity that may offset or eliminate savings from auxiliary power units or satellite tracking equipment, or may incur unexpected maintenance or other costs associated with such units. The absence of meaningful fuel price protection through these measures, fluctuations in fuel prices, or a shortage of diesel fuel, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. Seasonality and the impact of weather can affect our profitability. Our tractor productivity generally decreases during the winter season because inclement weather impedes operations and some shippers reduce their shipments. At the same time, operating expenses generally increase, with harsh weather creating higher accident frequency, increased claims and more equipment repairs. We can also suffer short-term impacts from weather-related events such as hurricanes, blizzards, ice-storms, and floods that could harm our results or make our results more volatile.. 9. Lack of capacity and service instability in the railroad industry could increase our operating costs and reduce our ability to offer intermodal services, which could adversely affect our revenue, results of operations, and customer relationships. Our Intermodal segment is dependent on railroad services and their capacity to transport freight for our customers. We expect our dependence on railroads will continue to increase as we expand our Intermodal services. We compete for the availability of railroad services with other intermodal operators as well as certain industries reliant on the use of rail cars, such as oil and agricultural, whose consumption of railroad capacity has significantly fluctuated over the past several years. In most markets, rail service is limited to a few railroads or even a single railroad. Any capacity constraints, service problems or reduction in service by the railroads with which we have, or in the future may have, relationships is likely to increase the cost of the rail-based services we provide and reduce the reliability, timeliness, and overall attractiveness of our rail-based services, which could adversely affect our revenue, results of operations and customer relationships. Furthermore, railroads are relatively free to adjust shipping rates up or down as market conditions permit. Price increases could result in higher costs to our customers and reduce or eliminate our ability to offer Intermodal services. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to negotiate additional contracts with railroads to expand our capacity, add additional routes, or obtain multiple providers, which could limit our ability to provide this service.. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials, fuel storage tanks, air emissions from our vehicles and facilities, engine idling, and discharge and retention of storm water. We operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located, and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination have occurred. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal, among others. Although we have instituted programs to monitor and control environmental risks and promote compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, if we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to liabilities, including substantial fines or penalties or civil and criminal liability, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results.. If we are unable to retain our executive officers and key management employees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We are highly dependent upon the services of our executive officers and key management employees, including our Chief Executive Officer. Currently, we do not have employment agreements with these employees and the loss of their services for any reason could have a materially adverse effect on our operations and future profitability. We have entered into agreements with our executive officers that require us to provide compensation to them in the event of termination of their employment without cause in connection with or within a certain period of time after a “change in control” of our Company. In addition, we must continue to develop and retain a core group of managers if we are to realize our goal of expanding our operations and continuing our growth. While our Board regularly engages in succession planning for our Chief Executive Officer and executive leadership team, there is no guarantee that a candidate or plan will be successful. Although we strive to reduce the potential negative impact of any such changes, the loss of any executive officers or key management employees could result in disruptions to our operations. In addition, hiring, training, and successfully integrating replacement personnel, whether internal or external, could be time consuming, may cause additional disruptions to our operations, and may be unsuccessful, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 10"
