[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our common shares involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and all information contained in this report before you decide to purchase our common shares. Many of these risks and uncertainties are beyond our control, including business cycles and seasonal trends of the computing, semiconductor and related industries and end markets. If any of the possible adverse events described below actually occurs, we may be unable to conduct our business as currently planned and our financial condition and operating results could be harmed. In addition, the trading price of our common shares could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. 7. Risks Related to Our Proposed Merger with Cavium. Our proposed acquisition of Cavium, Inc. (\"Cavium\") involves a number of risks, including, among others, the risk that we fail to complete the acquisition in a timely manner or at all, regulatory risks, risks associated with our use of a significant portion of our cash and our taking on significant indebtedness, other financial risks, integration risks, and risk associated with the reactions of customers, suppliers and employees.. Our and Cavium's obligations to consummate the proposed transaction (the \"Merger\") are subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions, including, among others: (i) the approval of Cavium's shareholders of the merger agreement; (ii) the approval of our shareholders to allow us to issue shares of common stock in connection with the merger agreement; (iii) the receipt of regulatory clearance under applicable  U.S. and foreign regulations; (iv) the absence of any law or order prohibiting the proposed transaction; (v) there being no event that would have a material adverse effect on Cavium; and (vi) the accuracy of the representations and warranties of Cavium, subject to certain exceptions, and Cavium's material compliance with its covenants, in the definitive agreement. We cannot provide assurance that the conditions to the completion of the proposed transaction will be satisfied in a timely manner or at all, and if the proposed transaction is not completed, we would not realize any of the expected benefits. While some of these conditions have been satisfied, several conditions to the Merger have not yet been satisfied.. The regulatory approvals required in connection with the proposed transaction may not be obtained or may contain materially burdensome conditions. If any conditions or changes to the structure of the proposed transaction are required to obtain these regulatory approvals, they may have the effect of jeopardizing or delaying completion of the proposed transaction or reducing our anticipated benefits. If we agree to any material conditions in order to obtain any approvals required to complete the proposed transaction, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.. In addition, the use of a significant portion of our cash and the incurrence of substantial indebtedness in connection with the financing of the proposed transaction will reduce our liquidity, and may limit our flexibility in responding to other business opportunities and increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions.. If the Merger is not completed by September 19, 2018 (subject to a potential extension to November 19, 2018 under certain circumstances, including in the event receipt of certain required regulatory approvals has not been obtained), either Marvell or Cavium may choose to terminate the Merger Agreement. Marvell or Cavium may also elect to terminate the Merger Agreement in certain other circumstances, or they may mutually decide to terminate the Merger Agreement at any time prior to the Effective Time, before or after obtaining shareholder approval, as applicable.. If the proposed transaction is not completed, our stock price could fall to the extent that our current price reflects an assumption that we will complete it. Furthermore, if the proposed transaction is not completed and the purchase agreement is terminated, we would not realize any of the expected benefits of the proposed transaction, and we may suffer other consequences that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and stock price, including, among others:. • we could be required to pay a termination fee of up to $180 million;. • we will have incurred and may continue to incur costs relating to the proposed transaction, many of which are payable by us whether or not the proposed transaction is completed;. • matters related to the proposed transaction (including integration planning) require substantial commitments of time and resources by our management team and numerous others throughout our organization, which could other have been devoted to other opportunities;. • we may be subject to legal proceedings related to the proposed transaction or the failure to complete the proposed transaction;. • the failure to complete the proposed transaction may result in negative publicity and a negative perception of us in the investment community; and. • any disruptions to our business resulting from the announcement and pendency of the proposed transaction, including any adverse changes in our relationships with our customers, supplied, partners or employees, may continue to intensify in the event the proposed transaction is not consummated.. The benefits we expect to realize from the proposed transaction will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate the businesses successfully and efficiently. See also the Risk Factor entitled \"Any potential future acquisitions, strategic investments, divestitures, mergers or joint ventures may subject us to significant risks, any of which could harm our business.\". 8. Furthermore, uncertainties about the proposed transaction may cause our and/or Cavium's current and prospective employees to experience uncertainty about their futures. These uncertainties may impair our and/or Cavium's ability to retain, recruit or motivate key management, engineering, technical and other personnel. Similarly, our and/or Cavium's existing or prospective customers, licensees, suppliers and/or partners may delay, defer or cease purchasing products or services from or providing products or services to us or Cavium; delay or defer other decisions concerning us or Cavium; or otherwise seek to change the terms on which they do business with us or Cavium. Any of the above could harm us and/or Cavium, and thus decrease the benefits we expect to receive from the proposed transaction.. The proposed transaction may also result in significant charges or other liabilities that could adversely affect our results of operations, such as cash expenses and non-cash accounting charges incurred in connection with our acquisition and/or integration of the business and operations of Cavium. Further, our failure to identify or accurately assess the magnitude of certain liabilities we are assuming in the proposed transaction could result in unexpected litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting charges, unexpected increases in taxes due, a loss of anticipated tax benefits or other adverse effects on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. Until the completion of the Merger or the termination of the Merger Agreement in accordance with its terms, Marvell and Cavium are each prohibited from entering into certain transactions and taking certain actions that might otherwise be beneficial to Marvell or Cavium and their respective shareholders.. Until the Merger is completed or the Merger Agreement is terminated, the merger agreement dated November 19, 2017 (the \"Merger Agreement\") restricts Marvell and Cavium from taking specified actions without the consent of the other party, and requires Cavium to conduct its business and operations in the ordinary course in all material respects and substantially in accordance with past practices. These restrictions may prevent Marvell and Cavium from making appropriate changes to their respective businesses or pursuing attractive business opportunities that may arise prior to the completion of the Merger.. The Merger Agreement limits each of Marvell's and Cavium's ability to pursue alternative transactions, and in certain instances requires payment of a termination fee, which could deter a third party from proposing an alternative transaction.. The Merger Agreement contains provisions that, subject to certain exceptions, limit each of Marvell's and Cavium's ability to solicit, initiate, encourage or facilitate, or enter into discussions or negotiations with respect to, any inquiries regarding or the making of any proposal or offer that constitutes or could reasonably be expected to lead to an alternative transaction. In addition, under specified circumstances, Marvell or Cavium is required to pay a termination fee of $180 million if the Merger Agreement is terminated. It is possible that these or other provisions might discourage a potential competing acquirer that might have an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of Marvell or Cavium from considering or proposing an acquisition or might result in a potential competing acquirer proposing to pay a lower per share price to acquire Marvell or Cavium than it might otherwise have proposed to pay.. The Merger is subject to the receipt of CFIUS Approval that may impose measures to protect U.S. national security or other conditions that could have an adverse effect on Marvell, Cavium, or the combined company, or, if not obtained, could prevent completion of the Merger.. Marvell's obligation to complete the Merger is conditioned on obtaining CFIUS Approval. In deciding whether to grant CFIUS Approval, CFIUS will consider the effect of the Merger on U.S. national security. As a condition to granting CFIUS Approval, CFIUS may take measures and impose conditions, certain of which (a) could materially and adversely affect the combined company's operating results due to the imposition of requirements, limitations or costs or the placement of restrictions on the conduct of the combined company's business and (b) could adversely affect the financial position and prospects of the combined company and its ability to achieve the cost savings and other synergies projected to result from the Merger. There can be no assurance that CFIUS will not impose conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions, or that such conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions will not have the effect of delaying completion of the Merger or imposing additional material costs on, or materially limiting the revenues of, the combined company following the Merger.. Any delay in completing the Merger may significantly reduce the benefits expected to be obtained from the Merger.. In addition to the required regulatory clearances and approvals, the Merger is subject to a number of other conditions that are beyond the control of Marvell and Cavium and that may prevent, delay or otherwise materially adversely affect completion of the Merger. Marvell and Cavium cannot predict whether and when these other conditions will be satisfied. Further, the requirements for obtaining the required regulatory clearances and approvals could delay the completion of the Merger for a significant period of time or prevent it from occurring. Any delay in completing the Merger may significantly reduce the synergies projected to result from the Merger and other benefits that Marvell and Cavium expect to achieve if they complete the Merger within the expected timeframe and integrate their respective businesses.. 9. There can be no assurance that Marvell will be able to secure the funds necessary to pay the cash portion of the Merger Consideration and refinance certain of Cavium's existing indebtedness on acceptable terms, in a timely manner or at all.. Marvell intends to fund the cash portion of the Merger Consideration to be paid to holders of Cavium common stock with a combination of Marvell's and Cavium's cash on hand and debt financing. To this end, Marvell has entered into a debt commitment letter containing commitments for a $900 million term loan facility and an $850 million bridge loan facility. However, neither Marvell nor any of its subsidiaries has entered into definitive agreements for the debt financing (or other financing arrangements in lieu thereof), and the obligation of the lenders to provide the debt financing under the debt commitment letter is subject to a number of customary conditions. There can be no assurance that Marvell will be able to obtain the debt financing pursuant to the debt commitment letter.. In the event that the debt financing contemplated by the debt commitment letter is not available, other financing may not be available on acceptable terms, in a timely manner or at all. If Marvell is unable to obtain debt financing, the Merger may be delayed or not be completed.. Litigation filed against Marvell and Cavium could prevent or delay the completion of the Merger or result in the payment of damages following completion of the Merger.. Marvell, Cavium and members of Cavium's board of directors currently are and may in the future be parties, among others, to various claims and litigation related to the Merger Agreement and the Merger, including putative shareholder class actions. Two lawsuits have been filed against Marvell and Cavium and its board of directors in federal court:  Raul v. Cavium et al., No. 18 Civ. 00139 (N.D. Cal. filed Jan. 8, 2018) (\"Raul\"); and Rosenblatt v. Cavium et al., No. 18-Civ. 00300 (N.D. Cal. filed Jan. 12, 2018) (\"Rosenblatt\"). Also in connection with the Merger, two additional lawsuits have been filed against Cavium and its board of directors in federal court; Fineberg v. Cavium, Inc., 18-cv-00011 (filed January 2, 2018, Northern District of California) (\"Fineberg\"); and Stein v. Cavium, Inc., 18-cv-00141 (filed January 8, 2018, Northern District of California). The Fineberg and Stein complaints do not name Marvell as a defendant. However, as set forth in the Merger Agreement, no settlement of litigation related to the Merger may be agreed to by Cavium without the prior written consent of Marvell. These four complaints assert claims for violation of Section 14(a) of and Rule 14a-9 promulgated under the Exchange Act based on allegations that the registration statement on Form S-4 filed by Marvell with the SEC on December 21, 2017 omits material information. The complaints also assert control person claims under Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act against the Cavium board of directors.. Among other remedies, the plaintiffs in such matters are seeking to enjoin the Merger. The results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict, and could delay or prevent the Merger from becoming effective in a timely manner. Moreover, the pending litigation and any future additional litigation could be time consuming and expensive, could divert Marvell's and Cavium's management's attention away from their regular businesses, and, if any one of these lawsuits is adversely resolved against either Marvell or Cavium, could have a material adverse effect on Marvell's or Cavium's respective financial condition or the condition of the combined company.. If a settlement or other resolution is not reached in the potential lawsuits referenced above and the plaintiffs secure injunctive or other relief prohibiting, delaying or otherwise adversely affecting Marvell's or Cavium's ability to complete the Merger on the terms contemplated by the Merger Agreement, or there is a pending or overtly threatened legal proceeding brought by a governmental party as described above, then the Merger may not become effective in a timely manner or at all.. Factors That May Affect Marvell's Future Results. Our financial condition and results of operations may vary from quarter to quarter, which may cause the price of our common shares to decline.. Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and could do so in the future. Because our results of operations are difficult to predict, you should not rely on quarterly comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance.. Fluctuations in our results of operations may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below and those identified throughout this \"Risk Factors\" section:. • changes in general economic and political conditions and specific conditions in the end markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry;. • the effects of any acquisitions, divestitures or significant investments, including our merger with Cavium, Inc.;. • the highly competitive nature of the end markets we serve, particularly within the semiconductor industry;. • our dependence on a few customers for a significant portion of our revenue;. • severe financial hardship or bankruptcy of one or more of our major customers;. 10. • our ability to maintain a competitive cost structure for our manufacturing and assembly and test processes and our reliance on third parties to produce our products;. • any current and future litigation that could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources that are needed to successfully maintain and grow our business;. • cancellations, rescheduling or deferrals of significant customer orders or shipments, as well as the ability of our customers to manage inventory;. • gain or loss of a design win or key customer;. • seasonality in sales of consumer devices in which our products are incorporated;. • failure to qualify our products or our suppliers' manufacturing lines;. • our ability to develop and introduce new and enhanced products in a timely and effective manner, as well as our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology;. • failure to protect our intellectual property;. • impact of a significant natural disaster, including earthquakes, floods and tsunamis, particularly in certain regions in which we operate or own buildings, such as Santa Clara, California, and where our third party suppliers operate, such as Taiwan and elsewhere in the Pacific Rim; and. • our ability to attract, retain and motivate a highly skilled workforce, especially managerial, engineering, sales and marketing personnel.. Due to fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations and other factors, the price at which our common shares will trade is likely to continue to be highly volatile. From January 31, 2016 through February 3, 2018, our common shares traded as low as $8.32 and as high as $24.22 per share. Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your common shares at or above the price you paid. In future periods, our stock price could decline if, amongst other factors, our revenue or operating results are below our estimates or the estimates or expectations of securities analysts and investors. As a result of stock price volatility, we may be subject to securities class action litigation. Any litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources that are needed to successfully maintain and grow our business.. Our sales are concentrated in a few large customers. If we lose or experience a significant reduction in sales to any of these key customers, if any of these key customers experience a significant decline in market share, or if any of these customers experience significant financial difficulties, our revenue may decrease substantially and our results of operations and financial condition may be harmed.. We receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers. Net revenue from our two largest customers represented 34% and 35% of our net revenue for the year ended February 3, 2018 and January 28, 2017, respectively. Sales to our largest customers have fluctuated significantly from period to period and year to year and will likely continue to fluctuate in the future, primarily due to the timing and number of design wins with each customer, the continued diversification of our customer base as we expand into new markets, and natural disasters or other issues that may divert a customer's operations. The loss of any of our large customers or a significant reduction in sales we make to them would likely harm our financial condition and results of operations. To the extent one or more of our large customers experience significant financial difficulty, bankruptcy or insolvency, this could have a material adverse effect on our sales and our ability to collect on receivables, which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. For example, Toshiba Corporation has announced significant financial difficulties not directly related to their semiconductor business but which may have an adverse effect on its overall financial condition or result in a divestiture of the semiconductor portion of its business that purchases our products.. Our operating results in the foreseeable future will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, as well as the ability of these customers to sell products that incorporate our products. In the future, these customers may decide not to purchase our products at all, purchase fewer products than they did in the past, or alter their purchasing patterns in some other way, particularly because:. • a significant portion of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, which allows our customers to cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments with relatively short notice to us;. • customers may purchase integrated circuits from our competitors;. • customers may discontinue sales or lose market share in the markets for which they purchase our products;. • customers may develop their own solutions or acquire fully developed solutions from third-parties;. • customers may be subject to severe business disruptions, including, but not limited to, those driven by financial instability; or. • customers may consolidate (for example, Western Digital acquired SanDisk in 2017, and Toshiba Corporation is party to an agreement to sell a portion of its semiconductor business), which could lead to changing demand for our products, replacement of our products by the merged entity with those of our competitors and cancellation of orders.. 11. In addition, if regulatory activity, such as enforcement of U.S. export control and sanctions laws, were to materially limit our ability to makes sales to any of our significant customers, it could harm our results of operations, reputation and financial condition.. Any potential future acquisitions, strategic investments, divestitures, mergers or joint ventures may subject us to significant risks, any of which could harm our business.. Our long-term strategy may include identifying and acquiring, investing in or merging with suitable candidates on acceptable terms, or divesting of certain business lines or activities. In particular, over time, we may acquire, make investments in, or merge with providers of product offerings that complement our business or may terminate such activities. Mergers, acquisitions and divestitures include a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including but not limited to:. • diversion of management attention from running our existing business;. • increased expenses, including, but not limited to, legal, administrative and compensation expenses related to newly hired or terminated employees;. • key personnel of an acquired company may decide not to work for us;. • increased costs to integrate or, in the case of a divestiture, separate the technology, personnel, customer base and business practices of the acquired or divested business or assets;. • assuming the legal obligations of the acquired company, including potential exposure to material liabilities not discovered in the due diligence process;. • potential adverse effects on reported operating results due to possible write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets associated with acquisitions;. • potential damage to customer relationships or loss of synergies in the case of divestitures; and. • unavailability of acquisition financing on reasonable terms or at all.. Any acquired business, technology, service or product could significantly under-perform relative to our expectations and may not achieve the benefits we expect from possible acquisitions. Given that our resources are limited, our decision to pursue a transaction has opportunity costs; accordingly, if we pursue a particular transaction, we may need to forgo the prospect of entering into other transactions that could help us achieve our strategic objectives.. When we decide to sell assets or a business, we may have difficulty selling on acceptable terms in a timely manner.  These circumstances could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives or cause us to incur additional expense, or we may sell a business at a price or on terms that are less favorable than we had anticipated, resulting in a loss on the transaction.. If we do enter into agreements with respect to acquisitions, divestitures, or other transactions, we may fail to complete them due to factors such as:. • failure to obtain regulatory or other approvals;. • IP disputes or other litigation; or. • difficulties obtaining financing for the transaction.. For all these reasons, our pursuit of an acquisition, investment, divestiture, merger or joint venture could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.. We operate in intensely competitive markets, and our failure to compete effectively would harm our results of operations.. The semiconductor industry, and specifically the storage, networking and connectivity markets, are extremely competitive. We currently compete with a number of large domestic and international companies in the business of designing integrated circuits and related applications, some of which have greater financial, technical and management resources than us. Our efforts to introduce new products into markets with entrenched competitors will expose us to additional competitive pressures. For example, we are facing, and expect we will continue to face, significant competition in the networking market. Additionally, customer expectations and requirements have been evolving rapidly. For example, customers now expect us to provide turnkey solutions and commit to future roadmaps that have technical risks.. 12. Some of our competitors may be better situated to meet changing customer needs and secure design wins. Increasing competition in the markets in which we operate may negatively impact our revenue and gross margins. For example, competitors with greater financial resources may be able to offer lower prices than us, or they may offer additional products, services or other incentives that we may not be able to match. In addition, many of our competitors operate and maintain their own fabrication facilities and have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, and greater sales, marketing and distribution resources than we do. Furthermore, our current and potential competitors in the data communication and wireless markets have established or may establish financial and strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers or other third parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of customers. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among these competitors may acquire significant market share, which would harm our business. While we continue to pursue similar strategic relationships, and currently have significant financial and technical resources, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to compete successfully against existing or new competitors, which would harm our results of operations. As the technology inflections happen, our competitors may get ahead of us and negatively impact our market share.. In addition, the semiconductor industry has experienced increased consolidation over the past several years. For example, Avago Technologies Limited (now Broadcom Limited (\"Broadcom\")) acquired Broadcom Corporation in February 2016 and LSI Corporation in May 2014; Intel acquired Altera Corporation in December 2015; and NXP Semiconductors acquired Freescale Semiconductor, Ltd. in December 2015. In addition, Qualcomm recently announced a bid to buy NXP Semiconductors. Consolidation among our competitors could lead to a changing competitive landscape, capabilities and market share, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage and harm our results of operations.. A significant portion of our business is dependent on the HDD industry, which is highly cyclical, experiences rapid technological change, is subject to industry consolidation and is facing increased competition from alternative technologies.. The HDD industry is intensely competitive and technology inflections are happening rapidly. This industry has historically been cyclical, with periods of increased demand and rapid growth followed by periods of oversupply and subsequent contraction. These cycles may affect us because some of our largest customers participate in this industry.. HDD manufacturers tend to order more components than they may need during growth periods, and sharply reduce orders for components during periods of contraction. Rapid technological changes in the HDD industry often result in shifts in market share among the industry's participants. If the HDD manufacturers using our products do not retain or increase their market share, our sales may decrease.. In addition, the HDD industry has experienced significant consolidation. Consolidation among our customers could lead to changing demand for our products, replacement of our products by the merged entity with those of our competitors and cancellation of orders, each of which could harm our results of operations. If we are unable to leverage our technology and customer relationships, we may not capitalize on the increased opportunities for our products within the combined company.. Furthermore, future changes in the nature of information storage products and personal computing devices could reduce demand for traditional HDDs. For example, products using alternative technologies, such as SSD and other storage technologies are a source of competition to manufacturers of HDDs. Although we offer SSD controllers, leveraging our technology in hard drives, we cannot ensure that our overall business will not be adversely affected if demand for traditional HDDs decreases. Additionally, we depend on a few customers for our SSD controllers and as such, the loss of any SSD controller customer or a significant reduction in sales we make to them may harm our financial condition and results of operations. Unlike in the HDD industry, SSD customers may develop their own controllers, which could pose a challenge to our market share in the SSD space.. If we are unable to develop and introduce new and enhanced products that achieve market acceptance in a timely and cost-effective manner, our results of operations and competitive position will be harmed.. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop and introduce new products and enhancements to our existing products in a timely and cost-effective manner. We sell products in markets that are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and increasing demand for higher levels of integration and smaller process geometries. In addition, the development of new silicon devices is highly complex, and due to supply chain cross-dependencies and other issues, we may experience delays in completing the development, production and introduction of our new products. See also, \"We may be unable to protect our intellectual property, which would negatively affect our ability to compete.\". 13. Our ability to adapt to changes and to anticipate future standards, and the rate of adoption and acceptance of those standards, will be a significant factor in maintaining or improving our competitive position and prospects for growth. We may also have to incur substantial unanticipated costs to comply with these new standards. Our success will also depend on the ability of our customers to develop new products and enhance existing products for the markets they serve and to introduce and promote those products successfully and in a timely manner. Even if we and our customers introduce new and enhanced products to the market, those products may not achieve market acceptance.. Our gross margin and results of operations may be adversely affected in the future by a number of factors, including decreases in average selling prices of products over time and shifts in our product mix.. The products we develop and sell are primarily used for high-volume applications. As a result, the prices of those products have historically decreased rapidly. In addition, our more recently introduced products tend to have higher associated costs because of initial overall development and production expenses. Therefore, over time, we may not be able to maintain or improve our gross margins. Our financial results could suffer if we are unable to offset any reductions in our average selling prices by other cost reductions through efficiencies, introduction of higher margin products and other means.. To attract new customers or retain existing customers, we may offer certain price concessions to certain customers, which could cause our average selling prices and gross margins to decline. In the past, we have reduced the average selling prices of our products in anticipation of future competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or by our competitors and other factors. We expect that we will continue to have to reduce prices of existing products in the future. Moreover, because of the wide price differences across the markets we serve, the mix and types of performance capabilities of our products sold may affect the average selling prices of our products and have a substantial impact on our revenue and gross margin. We may enter new markets in which a significant amount of competition exists, and this may require us to sell our products with lower gross margins than we earn in our established businesses. If we are successful in growing revenue in these markets, our overall gross margin may decline. Fluctuations in the mix and types of our products may also affect the extent to which we are able to recover the fixed costs and investments associated with a particular product, and as a result may harm our financial results.. Additionally, because we do not operate our own manufacturing, assembly or testing facilities, we may not be able to reduce our costs as rapidly as companies that operate their own facilities and our costs may even increase, which could also reduce our gross margins.. We rely on independent foundries and subcontractors for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our integrated circuit products, and the failure of any of these third-party vendors to deliver products or otherwise perform as requested could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our sales and limit our ability to grow our business.. We do not have our own manufacturing or assembly facilities and have very limited in-house testing facilities. Therefore, we currently rely on several third-party foundries to produce our integrated circuit products. We also currently rely on several third-party assembly and test subcontractors to assemble, package and test our products. This exposes us to a variety of risks, including the following:. Regional Concentration. Substantially all of our products are manufactured by third-party foundries located in Taiwan, and other sources are located in China and Singapore. In addition, substantially all of our third-party assembly and testing facilities are located in China, Singapore and Taiwan. Because of the geographic concentration of these third-party foundries, as well as our assembly and test subcontractors, we are exposed to the risk that their operations may be disrupted by regional disasters including, for example, earthquakes (particularly in Taiwan and elsewhere in the Pacific Rim close to fault lines), tsunamis or typhoons, or by political, social or economic instability. In the case of such an event, our revenue, cost of goods sold and results of operations would be negatively impacted. In addition, there are limited numbers of alternative foundries and identifying and implementing alternative manufacturing facilities would be time consuming. As a result, if we needed to implement alternate manufacturing facilities, we could experience significant expenses and delays in product shipments, which could harm our results of operations.. 14. No Guarantee of Capacity or Supply. The ability of each foundry to provide us with semiconductor devices is limited by its available capacity and existing obligations. When demand is strong, availability of foundry capacity may be constrained or not available, and with limited exceptions, our vendors are not obligated to perform services or supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities, or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. We place our orders on the basis of our customers' purchase orders or our forecast of customer demand, and the foundries can allocate capacity to the production of other companies' products and reduce deliveries to us on short notice. It is possible that foundry customers that are larger and better financed than we are or that have long-term agreements with our main foundries may induce our foundries to reallocate capacity to those customers. This reallocation could impair our ability to secure the supply of components that we need. In particular, as we and others in our industry transition to smaller geometries, our manufacturing partners may be supply constrained or may charge premiums for these advanced technologies, which may harm our business or results of operations. See also, \"We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses.\" Moreover, if any of our third-party foundry suppliers are unable to secure necessary raw materials from their suppliers, lose benefits under material agreements, experience power outages, lack sufficient capacity to manufacture our products, encounter financial difficulties or suffer any other disruption or reduction in efficiency, we may encounter supply delays or disruptions, which could harm our business or results of operations.. While we attempt to create multiple sources for our products, most of our products are not manufactured at more than one foundry at any given time, and our products typically are designed to be manufactured in a specific process at only one of these foundries. Accordingly, if one of our foundries is unable to provide us with components as needed, it would be difficult for us to transition the manufacture of our products to other foundries, and we could experience significant delays in securing sufficient supplies of those components. This could result in a material decline in our revenue, net income and cash flow.. In order to secure sufficient foundry capacity when demand is high and to mitigate the risks described in the foregoing paragraph, we may enter into various arrangements with suppliers that could be costly and harm our results of operations, such as nonrefundable deposits with or loans to foundries in exchange for capacity commitments, or contracts that commit us to purchase specified quantities of integrated circuits over extended periods. We may not be able to make any such arrangement in a timely fashion or at all, and any arrangements may be costly, reduce our financial flexibility, and not be on terms favorable to us. Moreover, if we are able to secure foundry capacity, we may be obligated to use all of that capacity or incur penalties. These penalties may be expensive and could harm our financial results.. Uncertain Yields and Quality. The fabrication of integrated circuits is a complex and technically demanding process. Our technology is transitioning from planar to FINFET transistors. This transition may result in longer qualification cycles and lower yields. Our foundries have from time to time experienced manufacturing defects and lower manufacturing yields, which are difficult to detect at an early stage of the manufacturing process and may be time consuming and expensive to correct. Changes in manufacturing processes or the inadvertent use of defective or contaminated materials by our foundries could result in lower than anticipated manufacturing yields or unacceptable performance. In addition, we may face lower manufacturing yields and reduced quality in the process of ramping up and diversifying our manufacturing partners. Poor yields from our foundries, or defects, integration issues or other performance problems with our products could cause us significant customer relations and business reputation problems, harm our financial performance and result in financial or other damages to our customers. Our customers could also seek damages in connection with product liability claims, which would likely be time consuming and costly to defend. In addition, defects could result in significant costs. See also, \"Costs related to defective products could have a material adverse effect on us.\". To the extent that we rely on outside suppliers to manufacture or assemble and test our products, we may have a reduced ability to directly control product delivery schedules and quality assurance, which could result in product shortages or quality assurance problems that could delay shipments or increase costs.. Commodity Prices. We are also subject to risk from fluctuating market prices of certain commodity raw materials, including gold and copper, which are incorporated into our end products or used by our suppliers to manufacture our end products. Supplies for such commodities may from time to time become restricted, or general market factors and conditions may affect pricing of such commodities.. 15. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses.. In order to remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries. This transition requires us to modify the manufacturing processes for our products and to redesign some products. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies to reduce our costs. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes.. We are dependent on our relationships with our foundry subcontractors to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. We cannot ensure that the foundries we use will be able to effectively manage the transition or that we will be able to maintain our existing foundry relationships or develop new ones. If we or any of our foundry subcontractors experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, we could experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses, all of which could harm our relationships with our customers and our results of operations.. As smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third-party intellectual property, into our products. However, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, if at all. Moreover, even if we are able to achieve higher levels of design integration, such integration may have a short-term adverse impact on our results of operations, as we may reduce our revenue by integrating the functionality of multiple chips into a single chip.. Our indemnification obligations and limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Under Bermuda law, our articles of association and bye-laws and certain indemnification agreements to which we are a party, we have an obligation to indemnify, or we have otherwise agreed to indemnify, certain of our current and former directors and officers with respect to current and future investigations and litigation, including the matters discussed in Part I-Item 3, \"Legal Proceedings\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In connection with some of these pending matters, we are required to, or we have otherwise agreed to, advance, and have advanced, legal fees and related expenses to certain of our current and former directors and officers and expect to continue to do so while these matters are pending. Certain of these obligations may not be \"covered matters\" under our directors' and officers' liability insurance, or there may be insufficient coverage available. Further, in the event the directors and officers are ultimately determined not to be entitled to indemnification, we may not be able to recover the amounts we previously advanced to them.. In addition, we incurred significant expenses in connection with the Audit Committee's independent investigation, the pending government investigations, and shareholder litigation. We cannot provide any assurances that past or future claims related to those or other matters, including the cost of fees, penalties or other expenses, will not exceed the limits of our insurance policies, that such claims are covered by the terms of our insurance policies or that our insurance carrier will be able to cover our claims. Additionally, to the extent there is coverage of these claims, the insurers also may seek to deny or limit coverage in some or all of these matters. Furthermore, the insurers could become insolvent and unable to fulfill their obligation to defend, pay or reimburse us for insured claims. Accordingly, we cannot be sure that claims will not arise that are in excess of the limits of our insurance or that are not covered by the terms of our insurance policy. Due to these coverage limitations, we may incur significant unreimbursed costs to satisfy our indemnification obligations, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Costs related to defective products could have a material adverse effect on us.. From time to time, we have experienced hardware and software defects and bugs associated with the introduction of our highly complex products. Despite our testing procedures, we cannot ensure that errors will not be found in new products or releases after commencement of commercial shipments in the future. Such errors could result in:. • loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products;. • material recall and replacement costs;. • delay in revenue recognition or loss of revenue;. • writing down the inventory of defective products;. • the diversion of the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts;. • our having to defend against litigation related to defective products or related property damage or personal injury; and. • damage to our reputation in the industry that could adversely affect our relationships with our customers.. 16. In addition, the process of identifying a recalled product in devices that have been widely distributed may be lengthy and require significant resources. We may have difficulty identifying the end customers of the defective products in the field, which may cause us to incur significant replacement costs, contract damage claims from our customers and further reputational harm. Any of these problems could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. Despite our best efforts, security vulnerabilities may exist with respect to our products. Mitigation techniques designed to address such security vulnerabilities, including software and firmware updates or other preventative measures, may not operate as intended or effectively resolve such vulnerabilities. Software and firmware updates and/or other mitigation efforts may result in performance issues, system instability, data loss or corruption, unpredictable system behavior, or the theft of data by third parties, any of which could significantly harm our business and reputation.. We have experienced a significant transition at the executive management level in the last 18 months. If our new executive team is unable to engage and align mid-management or attract and retain the key talent needed for us to timely achieve our business objectives, our business and results of operations could be harmed.. The company's executive management team has gone through a complete transition in the last two years, including the hiring of a new President and CEO, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller, Chief Operations Officer, Chief Technology Officer, Chief Administration and Legal Officer, Executive Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Marketing and the appointment of new leaders for our corporate development organization and our storage, and networking and connectivity groups. While the individual members of our executive management team each have significant industry-related experience, they previously had not worked together as a group and it will take time for them to become an integrated management team. Delays in the integration of our management team could affect our ability to implement our business strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. If any of the members of our current management team were to leave our company unexpectedly, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring qualified successors. The marketplace for senior executive management candidates is very competitive and limited, particularly in the Silicon Valley where our U.S. operations are based. Our growth may be adversely impacted if we are unable to attract, retain and motivate such key employees. Turnover of senior management can adversely impact our stock price, our results of operations and our client relationships, and has made recruiting for future management positions more difficult. Competition for senior leadership may increase our compensation expenses, which may negatively affect our profitability.. We depend on highly skilled engineering and sales and marketing personnel to support our business operations. If we are unable to retain and motivate our current personnel or attract additional qualified personnel, our ability to develop and successfully market our products could be harmed.. We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales and marketing personnel. The competition for qualified technical personnel with significant experience in the design, development, manufacturing, marketing and sales of integrated circuits is intense, both in the Silicon Valley where our U.S. operations are based and in global markets in which we operate. Our inability to attract qualified personnel, including hardware and software engineers and sales and marketing personnel, could delay the development and introduction of, and harm our ability to sell, our products. Changes to United States immigration policies that restrict our ability to attract and retain technical personnel may negatively affect our research and development efforts.. We typically do not enter into employment agreements with any of our key technical personnel and the loss of such personnel could harm our business, as their knowledge of our business and industry would be extremely difficult to replace. The impact on employee morale experienced in connection with our recent restructuring efforts, which eliminated approximately 900 jobs worldwide, could make it more difficult for us to add to our workforce when needed due to speculation regarding our future restructuring activities. In addition, our recently announced merger with Cavium, Inc. may cause our current and prospective employees to experience uncertainty about their futures that may impair our ability to retain, recruit or motivate key management, engineering, technical and other personnel.. 17. We rely upon the performance of our information technology systems to process, transmit, store and protect electronic information. The failure of or security breaches of any of our critical information technology systems may result in serious harm to our reputation, business, results of operations and/or financial condition.. We depend heavily on our technology infrastructure and maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. We routinely collect and store sensitive data in our information systems, including intellectual property and other proprietary information about our business and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners. These information technology systems are subject to damage or interruption from a number of potential sources, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, viruses, destructive or inadequate code, malware, power failures, cyber-attacks, internal malfeasance or other events. We have implemented processes for systems under our control intended to mitigate risks; however, we can provide no guarantee that those risk mitigation measures will be effective. Given the frequency of cyber-attacks and resulting breaches reported by other businesses and governments, it is likely we will experience one or more breaches of some extent in the future. We may incur significant costs in order to implement, maintain and/or update security systems we feel are necessary to protect our information systems, or we may miscalculate the level of investment necessary to protect our systems adequately. Since the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and are often not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. To the extent that any system failure, accident or security breach results in material disruptions or interruptions to our operations or the theft, loss or disclosure of, or damage to our data or confidential information, including our intellectual property, our reputation, business, results of operations and/or financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property, which would negatively affect our ability to compete.. We believe one of our key competitive advantages results from the collection of proprietary technologies we have developed and acquired since our inception, and the protection of our intellectual property rights is, and will continue to be, important to the success of our business. If we fail to protect these intellectual property rights, competitors could sell products based on technology that we have developed, which could harm our competitive position and decrease our revenue.. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, contractual provisions, confidentiality agreements, licenses and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies. We also enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and business partners, and control access to and distribution of our documentation and other proprietary information. Notwithstanding these agreements, we have experienced disputes with employees regarding ownership of intellectual property in the past. To the extent that any third party has a claim to ownership of any relevant technologies used in our products, we may not be able to recognize the full revenue stream from such relevant technologies.. We have been issued a significant number of U.S. and foreign patents and have a significant number of pending U.S. and foreign patent applications. However, a patent may not be issued as a result of any applications or, if issued, claims allowed may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, it is possible that existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. We may also be required to license some of our patents to others including competitors as a result of our participation in and contribution to development of industry standards. Despite our efforts, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or proprietary technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our technology is difficult, and the steps that we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in jurisdictions where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States or other developed countries. If our patents do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer products similar to ours, which would adversely impact our business and results of operations.. Certain of our software, as well as that of our customers, may be derived from so-called \"open source\" software that is generally made available to the public by its authors and/or other third parties. Open source software is made available under licenses that impose certain obligations on us in the event we were to distribute derivative works of the open source software. These obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to the public and/or license such derivative works under a particular type of license, rather than the forms of license we customarily use to protect our intellectual property. While we believe we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable licenses for open source software, in the event that the copyright holder of any open source software were to successfully establish in court that we had not complied with the terms of a license for a particular work, we could be required to release the source code of that work to the public and/or stop distribution of that work if the license is terminated which could adversely impact our business and results of operations.. 18. We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties. If we are unable to accurately predict customer demand, we may hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our gross margin. Conversely, we may have insufficient inventory, which would result in lost revenue opportunities and potential loss of market share as well as damaged customer relationships.. We typically sell products pursuant to purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments. Customers can generally cancel or defer purchase orders on short notice without incurring a significant penalty. Due to their inability to predict demand or other reasons, some of our customers may accumulate excess inventories and, as a consequence, defer purchase of our products. We cannot accurately predict what or how many products our customers will need in the future. Anticipating demand is difficult because our customers face unpredictable demand for their own products and are increasingly focused more on cash preservation and tighter inventory management. In addition, as an increasing number of our chips are being incorporated into consumer products, we anticipate greater fluctuations in demand for our products, which makes it more difficult to forecast customer demand.. We place orders with our suppliers based on forecasts of customer demand and, in some instances, may establish buffer inventories to accommodate anticipated demand. Our forecasts are based on multiple assumptions, each of which may introduce error into our estimates. For example, our ability to accurately forecast customer demand may be impaired by the delays inherent in our customer's product development processes, which may include extensive qualification and testing of components included in their products, including ours. In many cases, they design their products to use components from multiple suppliers. This creates the risk that our customers may decide to cancel or change product plans for products incorporating our integrated circuits prior to completion, which makes it even more difficult to forecast customer demand.. Our products are incorporated into complex devices and systems, which may create supply chain cross-dependencies. Due to cross dependencies, any supply chain disruptions could negatively impact the demand for our products in the short term. We have a limited ability to predict the timing of a supply chain correction. In addition, the market share of our customers could be adversely impacted on a long-term basis due to any continued supply chain disruption, which could negatively affect our results of operations.. If we overestimate customer demand, our excess or obsolete inventory may increase significantly, which would reduce our gross margin and adversely affect our financial results. The risk of obsolescence and/or excess inventory is heightened for devices designed for consumer electronics due to the rapidly changing market for these types of products. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if insufficient manufacturing capacity is available, we would miss revenue opportunities and potentially lose market share and damage our customer relationships. In addition, any future significant cancellations or deferrals of product orders or the return of previously sold products could materially and adversely affect our profit margins, increase product obsolescence and restrict our ability to fund our operations.. We rely on third-party distributors and manufacturers' representatives and the failure of these distributors and manufacturers' representatives to perform as expected could reduce our future sales.. From time to time, we enter into relationships with distributors and manufacturers' representatives to sell our products, and we are unable to predict the extent to which these partners will be successful in marketing and selling our products. Moreover, many of our distributors and manufacturers' representatives also market and sell competing products, and may terminate their relationships with us at any time. Our future performance will also depend, in part, on our ability to attract additional distributors or manufacturers' representatives that will be able to market and support our products effectively, especially in markets in which we have not previously distributed our products. If we cannot retain or attract quality distributors or manufacturers' representatives, our sales and results of operations will be harmed.. We face additional risks due to the extent of our global operations since a majority of our products, and those of our customers, are manufactured and sold outside of the United States. The occurrence of any or a combination of the additional risks described below would significantly and negatively impact our business and results of operations.. A substantial portion of our business is conducted outside of the United States and, as a result, we are subject to foreign business, political and economic risks. All of our products are manufactured outside of the United States. Our current qualified integrated circuit foundries are located in the same region within Taiwan, and our primary assembly and test subcontractors are located in the Pacific Rim region. In addition, many of our customers are located outside of the United States, primarily in Asia, which further exposes us to foreign risks. Sales shipped to customers with operations in Asia represented approximately 95% of our net revenue in fiscal 2018, 94% of our net revenue in fiscal 2017 and 96% of net revenue in fiscal 2016.. We also have substantial operations outside of the United States. These operations are directly influenced by the political and economic conditions of the region in which they are located and, with respect to Israel, possible military hostilities periodically affecting the region that could affect our operations there. We anticipate that our manufacturing, assembly, testing and sales outside of the United States will continue to account for a substantial portion of our operations and revenue in future periods.. 19. Accordingly, we are subject to risks associated with international operations, including:. • political, social and economic instability, including wars, terrorism, political unrest, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions;. • volatile global economic conditions, including downturns in which some competitors may become more aggressive in their pricing practices, which would adversely impact our gross margin;. • compliance with domestic and foreign export and import regulations, including pending changes thereto, and difficulties in obtaining and complying with domestic and foreign export, import and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses;. • local laws and practices that favor local companies, including business practices in which we are prohibited from engaging by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations;. • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations;. • natural disasters, including earthquakes, tsunamis and floods;. • trade restrictions, higher tariffs, or changes in cross border taxation, particularly in light of the prospect of changes in U.S. international trade policies following the recent U.S. presidential election;. • transportation delays;. • difficulties of managing distributors;. • less effective protection of intellectual property than is afforded to us in the United States or other developed countries;. • inadequate local infrastructure; and. • exposure to local banking, currency control and other financial-related risks.. As a result of having global operations, the sudden disruption of the supply chain and/or disruption of the manufacture of our customer's products caused by events outside of our control could impact our results of operations by impairing our ability to timely and efficiently deliver our products.. Moreover, the international nature of our business subjects us to risk associated with the fluctuation of the U.S. dollar versus foreign currencies. Decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar versus currencies in jurisdictions where we have large fixed costs, or where our third-party manufacturers have significant costs, will increase the cost of such operations which could harm our results of operations.. We must comply with a variety of existing and future laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs on us and may adversely affect our business.. We are subject to laws and regulations worldwide, which may differ among jurisdictions, affecting our operations in areas including, but not limited to: intellectual property ownership and infringement; tax; import and export requirements; anti-corruption; foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions; data private requirements; competition; advertising; employment; product regulations; environment, health and safety requirements; and consumer laws.  For example, government export regulations apply to the encryption or other features contained in some of our products. If we fail to continue to receive licenses or otherwise comply with these regulations, we may be unable to manufacture the affected products at foreign foundries or ship these products to certain customers, or we may incur penalties or fines. In addition, we are subject to various industry requirements restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products. Although our management systems are designed to maintain compliance, we cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in compliance with such laws and regulations. If we violate or fail to comply with any of them, a range of consequences could result, including fines, import/export restrictions, sales limitations, criminal and civil liabilities or other sanctions. The costs of complying with these laws (including the costs of any investigations, auditing and monitoring) could adversely affect our current or future business.. In addition, we are subject to the \"conflict mineral rules\" promulgated by the SEC, which impose disclosure requirements on us regarding the use of conflict minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries in our products and the procedures our manufacturer's use to prevent the sourcing of such conflict minerals. The ongoing implementation of these requirements could affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of minerals used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices, including our products. As a result, there may only be a limited pool of suppliers who provide conflict-free metals, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices, which could adversely affect our operations and product margins. Additionally, if we are unable to sufficiently source conflict-free metals, we may face difficulties in satisfying customers who may require that the products they purchase from us are conflict-free, which may harm our sales and operating results.. 20. Changes in existing taxation benefits, rules or practices may adversely affect our financial results.. Changes in existing taxation benefits, rules or practices may also have a significant effect on our reported results. For example, both the U.S. Congress and the G-20 (Group of Twenty Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors) may consider legislation affecting the taxation of foreign corporations and such legislation if enacted might adversely affect our future tax liabilities and have a material impact on our results of operations. Furthermore, in prior years, we have entered into agreements in certain foreign jurisdictions that if certain criteria are met, the foreign jurisdiction will provide a more favorable tax rate than their current statutory rate. For example, we have obtained an undertaking from the Minister of Finance of Bermuda that in the event Bermuda enacts legislation imposing tax computed on profits, income, or capital asset, gain or appreciation, then the imposition of any such taxes will not apply to us until March 31, 2035. Additionally, our Singapore subsidiary qualified for Pioneer status until it expired in June 2014. However, we re-negotiated with the Singapore government and in fiscal 2015, they extended the Development and Expansion Incentive until June 2019. Furthermore, under the Israeli Encouragement law of \"approved or benefited enterprise,\" two branches of our subsidiary in Israel, Marvell Israel (M.I.S.L) Ltd., are entitled to, and have certain existing programs that qualify as, approved and benefited tax programs that include reduced tax rates and exemption of certain income through fiscal 2027. Moreover, receipt of past and future benefits under tax agreements may depend on our ability to fulfill commitments regarding employment of personnel or performance of specified activities in the applicable jurisdiction. Changes in our business plans, including divestitures, could result in termination of an agreement or loss of benefits thereunder. If any of our tax agreements in any of these foreign jurisdictions were terminated, our results of operations would be harmed.. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development has been working on a Base Erosion and Profit Sharing Project, and issued in 2015, and is expected to continue to issue, guidelines and proposals that may change various aspects of the existing framework under which our tax obligations are determined in some of the countries in which we do business. The European Commission has also conducted investigations in multiple countries focusing on whether local country tax rulings or tax legislation provides preferential tax treatment that violates European Union state aid rules and concluded that certain countries, including Ireland and Belgium, have provided illegal state aid in certain cases. We can provide no assurance that changes in tax laws and additional investigations would not have an adverse tax impact on our international operations.. Matters relating to or arising from our Audit Committee investigation, including regulatory proceedings, litigation matters and potential additional expenses, may adversely affect our business and results of operations.. As previously disclosed in our public filings, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors completed an investigation that generally included a review of certain revenue recognized in the first and second quarters of fiscal 2016 and the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015, including transactions that would have, in the normal course of events and but for action by certain Marvell employees, been completed and recognized in a subsequent quarter (referred to internally as \"pull-ins\"), the accrual of a litigation reserve in the second quarter of fiscal 2016, and the stated belief by Marvell's former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ownership of certain patent rights related to the Final-Level Cache invention and his later assignment of associated patent rights to Marvell. We are also the subject of investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the U.S. Attorney related to these matters. We are fully cooperating with the SEC and the U.S. Attorney with respect to those investigations.. We incurred significant expenses related to legal, accounting, and other professional services in connection with the investigations and related matters and related remediation efforts. The expenses incurred, and expected to be incurred, on the investigations, the impact of our delay in fiscal 2016 and the beginning of fiscal 2017 in meeting our periodic reports on the confidence of investors, employees and customers, and the diversion of the attention of the management team that has occurred, and is expected to continue, has adversely affected, and could continue to adversely affect, our business, financial condition and results of operations or cash flows.. As a result of the matters reported above, we are exposed to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. In addition, we incurred significant legal expenses in connection with securities class actions or other lawsuits that were filed against us, our directors and officers, which lawsuits we have agreed to settle.  Any future such investigations or additional lawsuits may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 21. During fiscal 2016 and continuing through the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, which have since been remediated.  If we are unable to develop, implement and maintain effective internal controls in future periods, our consolidated financial statements could contain material misstatements which would cause us to issue a restatement thereof. A restatement of our consolidated financial statements could cause our investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and lead to a decline in our stock price.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and SEC rules require that management report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures. Among other things, management must conduct an assessment of internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. During fiscal 2016 and continuing through the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. While we have remediated these material weaknesses as of February 3, 2018, the remediation process absorbed significant management attention and we incurred significant expenses relating to the remediation.. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements would not be prevented or detected. As with any material weakness, if our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weaknesses, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements. Any material misstatements could result in a restatement of our consolidated financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price.. Any control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting will not necessarily prevent all error and all fraud. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. In addition, we may modify the design and operating effectiveness of our internal controls, which could affect the overall effectiveness or evaluation of the control system in the future by us or our independent registered public accounting firm. We cannot ensure that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, as controls may become inadequate due to changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to provide reliable financial reports, or to detect and prevent fraud, which would harm our business.. We have been named as a party to several legal proceedings and may be named in additional ones in the future, including litigation involving our patents and other intellectual property, which could subject us to liability, require us to indemnify our customers, require us to obtain or renew licenses, require us to stop selling our products or force us to redesign our products.. We have been named as a party to several lawsuits, government inquiries or investigations and other legal proceedings (referred to as \"litigation\"), and we may be named in additional ones in the future. Please see \"Note 10 - Commitments and Contingencies\" of our Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a more detailed description of material litigation matters in which we are currently engaged. In particular, litigation involving patents and other intellectual property is widespread in the high-technology industry and is particularly prevalent in the semiconductor industry, where a number of companies and other entities aggressively bring numerous infringement claims to assert their patent portfolios. The amount of damages alleged in intellectual property infringement claims can often be very significant. See also, \"We may be unable to protect our intellectual property, which would negatively affect our ability to compete.\". From time to time, our subsidiaries and customers receive, and may continue to receive in the future, standards-based infringement claims, as well as claims against us and our subsidiaries' proprietary technologies. Our subsidiaries and customers could face claims of infringement for certain patent licenses that have not been renewed. These claims could result in litigation and/or claims for indemnification, which, in turn, could subject us to significant liability for damages, attorneys' fees and costs. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following:. • stop selling, offering for sale, making, having made or exporting products or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property;. • limit or restrict the type of work that employees involved in such litigation may perform for us;. • pay substantial damages and/or license fees and/or royalties to the party claiming infringement or other license violations that could adversely impact our liquidity or operating results;. 22. • attempt to obtain or renew licenses to the relevant intellectual property, which licenses may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; and. • attempt to redesign those products that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property.. Under certain circumstances, we have contractual and other legal obligations to indemnify and to incur legal expenses for current and former directors and officers. Additionally, from time to time, we have agreed to indemnify select customers for claims alleging infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, including, but not limited to, patents, registered trademarks and/or copyrights. If we are required to make a significant payment under any of our indemnification obligations, our results of operations may be harmed.. The ultimate outcome of litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business and the trading price for our securities. Litigation may be time consuming, expensive, and disruptive to normal business operations, and the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict. Litigation, regardless of the outcome, may result in significant expenditures, diversion of our management's time and attention from the operation of our business and damage to our reputation or relationship with third parties, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and stock price.. We are exposed to potential impairment charges on certain assets.. We had approximately $2.0 billion of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet as of February 3, 2018. Under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, we are required to review our intangible assets including goodwill for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. We perform an assessment of goodwill for impairment annually on the last business day of our fiscal fourth quarter and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of goodwill may not be recoverable.. We have identified that our business operates as a single operating segment with two components (Storage, and Networking and Connectivity), which we have concluded can be aggregated into a single reporting unit for purposes of testing goodwill impairment. As part of our restructuring announced in November 2016, our former Smart Networked Devices and Solutions component was renamed Networking and Connectivity. The fair value of the reporting unit is determined by taking our market capitalization as determined through quoted market prices and as adjusted for a control premium and other relevant factors. If our fair value declines to below our carrying value, we could incur significant goodwill impairment charges, which could negatively impact our financial results. If in the future a change in our organizational structure results in more than one reporting unit, we will be required to allocate our goodwill and perform an assessment of goodwill for impairment in each reporting unit. As a result, we could have an impairment of goodwill in one or more of such future reporting units.. In addition, from time to time, we have made investments in private companies. If the companies that we invest in are unable to execute their plans and succeed in their respective markets, we may not benefit from such investments, and we could potentially lose the amounts we invest. We evaluate our investment portfolio on a regular basis to determine if impairments have occurred. If the operations of any businesses that we have acquired declines significantly, we could incur significant intangible asset impairment charges. Impairment charges could have a material impact on our results of operations in any period.. If we were classified as a passive foreign investment company, there would be adverse tax consequences to U.S. holders of our ordinary shares.. If we were classified as a \"passive foreign investment company\" or \"PFIC\" under section 1297 of the Internal Revenue Code, of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"), for any taxable year during which a U.S. holder holds ordinary shares, such U.S. holder generally would be taxed at ordinary income tax rates on any gain realized on the sale or exchange of the ordinary shares and on any \"excess distributions\" (including constructive distributions) received on the ordinary shares. Such U.S. holder could also be subject to a special interest charge with respect to any such gain or excess distribution.. We would be classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes in any taxable year in which either (i) at least 75% of our gross income is passive income or (ii) on average, the percentage of our assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50% (determined on an average gross value basis). We were not classified as a PFIC for fiscal year 2017 or in any prior taxable year. Whether we will, in fact, be classified as a PFIC for any subsequent taxable year depends on our assets and income over the course of the relevant taxable year and, as a result, cannot be predicted with certainty. In particular, because the total value of our assets for purposes of the asset test will be calculated based upon the market price of our ordinary shares, a significant and sustained decline in the market price of our ordinary shares and corresponding market capitalization relative to our passive assets could result in our being classified as a PFIC. There can be no assurance that we will not be classified as a PFIC in the future or the Internal Revenue Service will not challenge our determination concerning PFIC status for any prior period.. 23. As we carry only limited insurance coverage, any incurred liability resulting from uncovered claims could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our insurance policies may not be adequate to fully offset losses from covered incidents, and we do not have coverage for certain losses. For example, there is very limited coverage available with respect to the services provided by our third-party foundries and assembly and test subcontractors. In the event of a natural disaster (such as an earthquake or tsunami), political or military turmoil, widespread health issues or other significant disruptions to their operations, insurance may not adequately protect us from this exposure. We believe our existing insurance coverage is consistent with common practice, economic considerations and availability considerations. If our insurance coverage is insufficient to protect us against unforeseen catastrophic losses, any uncovered losses could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to the risks of owning real property.. Our buildings in Santa Clara, California; Singapore; and Shanghai, China subject us to the risks of owning real property, which include, but are not limited to:. • the possibility of environmental contamination and the costs associated with remediating any environmental problems;. • adverse changes in the value of these properties due to interest rate changes, changes in the neighborhood in which the property is located, or other factors;. • the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with zoning, seismic and other legal or regulatory requirements;. • the potential disruption of our business and operations arising from or connected with a relocation due to moving to or renovating the facility;. • increased cash commitments for improvements to the buildings or the property, or both;. • increased operating expenses for the buildings or the property, or both;. • possible disputes with tenants or other third parties related to the buildings or the property, or both;. • failure to achieve expected cost savings due to extended non-occupancy of a vacated property intended to be leased; and. • the risk of financial loss in excess of amounts covered by insurance, or uninsured risks, such as the loss caused by damage to the buildings as a result of earthquakes, floods and/or other natural disasters.. Risks Related to Owning Marvell Common Shares. There can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends or effect share repurchases in any particular amount or at all, and statutory requirements under Bermuda Law may require us to defer payment of declared dividends or suspend share repurchases.. In May 2012, we announced the declaration of our first quarterly cash dividend. In November 2016, we announced that our board of directors had authorized a $1 billion share repurchase program, of which $642 million of shares have already been repurchased. Future payment of a regular quarterly cash dividend on our common shares and future share repurchases will be subject to, among other things: the best interests of our company and our shareholders; our results of operations, cash balances and future cash requirements; financial condition; developments in ongoing litigation; statutory requirements under Bermuda law; market conditions; and other factors that the board of directors may deem relevant. Our dividend payments or share repurchases may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends or repurchase shares in any particular amounts or at all. A reduction in, a delay of, or elimination of our dividend payments or share repurchases could have a negative effect on our share price.. We are incorporated in Bermuda and, as a result, it may not be possible for our shareholders to enforce civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States. In addition, our Bye-Laws contain a waiver of claims or rights of action by our shareholders against our officers and directors, which will severely limit our shareholders' right to assert a claim against our officers and directors under Bermuda law.. We are organized under the laws of Bermuda. As a result, it may not be possible for our shareholders to affect service of process within the United States upon us, or to enforce against us in U.S. courts judgments based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States. There is significant doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state, or hear actions brought in Bermuda against us or those persons based on those laws. The United States and Bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on U.S. federal or state securities laws, would not be automatically enforceable in Bermuda.. 24. Our Bye-Laws contain a broad waiver by our shareholders of any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, against any of our officers and directors. The waiver applies to any action taken by an officer or director, or the failure of an officer or director to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties with or for us, other than with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the officer or director or to any matter arising under U.S. federal securities laws. This waiver will limit the rights of our shareholders to assert claims against our officers and directors unless the act complained of involves fraud or dishonesty or arises as a result of a breach of U.S. federal securities laws. Therefore, so long as acts of business judgment do not involve fraud or dishonesty or arise as a result of a breach of U.S. federal securities laws, they will not be subject to shareholder claims under Bermuda law. For example, shareholders will not have claims against officers and directors for a breach of trust, unless the breach rises to the level of fraud or dishonesty, or arises as a result of a breach of U.S. federal securities laws.. Our Bye-Laws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in corporate control, even if the change in corporate control would benefit our shareholders.. Our Bye-Laws contain change in corporate control provisions, which include authorizing the issuance of preferred shares without shareholder approval. This provision could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our shareholders."
