[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following factors in addition to the other information set forth in this Annual Report before investing in our common shares. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. In such case, the trading price of our common shares could fall, and you may lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Business. Downward trends in our end markets or in economic conditions could negatively impact our business and financial performance.. Our business may be adversely impacted by changes in United States, Canadian, European, Asian, South American or global economic conditions, including inflation, deflation, interest rates, availability and cost of capital, consumer spending rates, energy availability and costs, and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. Volatility in the financial markets in the regions in which we operate and the deterioration of national and global economic conditions have in the past and could in the future materially adversely impact our operations, financial results and liquidity.. 11. Table of Contents. Trends in our primary end markets (residential new construction, repair, renovation and remodeling and non-residential building construction) directly impact our financial performance because they are directly correlated to the demand for doors and door components. Accordingly, the following factors may have a direct impact on our business in the countries and regions in which our products are sold:. • the strength of the economy;. • the amount and type of residential and non-residential construction;. • housing sales and home values;. • the age of existing home stock, home vacancy rates and foreclosures;. • non-residential building occupancy rates;. • increases in the cost of raw materials or wages, or any shortage in supplies or labor;. • the availability and cost of credit;. • employment rates and consumer confidence; and. • demographic factors such as immigration and migration of the population and trends in household formation.. In the United States, the housing market crisis had a negative impact on residential housing construction and related product suppliers. In addition, the current housing recovery is characterized by new construction levels still well below historical levels, and at times including an increased number of multi-family new construction starts, which generally use fewer of our products and generate less net sales at a lower margin than typical single family homes.. In many of the non-North American markets in which we manufacture and sell our products, economic conditions deteriorated as various countries suffered from the after effects of the global financial downturn that began in the United States in 2006. Certain of our non-North American markets were acutely affected by the housing downturn and future downturns could cause excess capacity in housing and building products, including doors and door products, which may make it difficult for us to raise prices. Due in part to both market and operating conditions, we exited certain markets in the past several years, including the Ukraine, Turkey, Romania, Hungary, Poland, Israel, France and South Africa.. Our relatively narrow focus within the building products industry amplifies the risks inherent in a prolonged global market downturn. The impact of this weakness on our net sales, net income and margins will be determined by many factors, including industry capacity, industry pricing, and our ability to implement our business plan.. Increases in mortgage rates, changes in mortgage interest deductions and the reduced availability of financing for the purchase of new homes and home construction and improvements could have a material adverse impact on our sales and profitability.. In general, demand for new homes and home improvement products may be adversely affected by increases in mortgage rates and the reduced availability of consumer financing. Mortgage rates remain near historic lows but have recently increased and will likely increase in the future. If mortgage rates increase and, consequently, the ability of prospective buyers to finance purchases of new homes or home improvement products is adversely affected, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. Members of Congress and government officials have from time to time suggested the elimination of the mortgage interest deduction for federal income tax purposes, either entirely or in part, based on borrower income, type of loan or principal amount. The recently enacted Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in the United States placed a cap on the amount of mortgage debt on which interest can be deducted and also made interest on home equity debt non-deductible. These changes and future changes in policies set to encourage home ownership and improvement, such as changes to the tax rules allowing for deductions of mortgage interest, may adversely impact demand for our products and have a material adverse impact on us.. Our performance may also depend upon consumers having the ability to finance the purchase of new homes and other buildings and repair and remodeling projects with credit from third-parties. The ability of consumers to finance these purchases is affected by such factors as new and existing home prices, homeowners' equity values, interest rates and home foreclosures. Adverse developments affecting any of these factors could result in a tightening of lending standards by financial institutions and reduce the ability of some consumers to finance home purchases or repair and remodeling expenditures. The most recent economic downturn, including declining home and other building values, increased home foreclosures and tightening of credit standards by lending institutions, have negatively impacted the home and other building new construction and repair and remodeling sectors. If these credit market trends were to continue or worsen, our net sales and net income may be adversely affected.. 12. Table of Contents. We operate in a competitive business environment. If we are unable to compete successfully, we could lose customers and our sales could decline.. The building products industry is highly competitive. Some of our principal competitors may have greater financial, marketing and distribution resources than we do and may be less leveraged than we are, providing them with more flexibility to respond to new technology or shifting consumer demand. Accordingly, these competitors may be better able to withstand changes in conditions within the industry in which we operate and may have significantly greater operating and financial flexibility than we do. Also, certain of our competitors may have excess production capacity, which may lead to pressure to decrease prices in order for us to remain competitive and may limit our ability to raise prices even in markets where economic and market conditions have improved. For these and other reasons, these competitors could take a greater share of sales and cause us to lose business from our customers or hurt our margins.. As a result of this competitive environment, we face pressure on the sales prices of our products. Because of these pricing pressures, we may in the future experience limited growth and reductions in our profit margins, sales or cash flows, and may be unable to pass on future raw material price, labor cost and other input cost increases to our customers which would also reduce profit margins.. Because we depend on a core group of significant customers, our sales, cash flows from operations and results of operations may be negatively affected if our key customers reduce the amount of products they purchase from us.. Our customers consist mainly of wholesalers, retail home centers and contractors. Our top ten customers together accounted for approximately 44% of our net sales in fiscal year 2017, while our largest customer, The Home Depot, accounted for approximately 18% of our net sales in fiscal year 2017. We expect that a small number of customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our net sales for the foreseeable future. However, net sales from customers that have accounted for a significant portion of our net sales in past periods, individually or as a group, may not continue in future periods, or if continued, may not reach or exceed historical levels in any period. For example, many of our largest customers, including The Home Depot, perform periodic line reviews to assess their product offerings, which have, on past occasions, led to loss of business and pricing pressures. In addition, as a result of competitive bidding processes, we may not be able to increase or maintain the margins at which we sell our products to our most significant customers. Moreover, if any of these customers fails to remain competitive in the respective markets or encounters financial or operational problems, our net sales and profitability may decline. We generally do not enter into long-term contracts with our customers and they generally do not have an obligation to purchase products from us. Therefore, we could lose a significant customer with little or no notice. The loss of, or a significant adverse change in, our relationships with The Home Depot or any other major customer could cause a material decrease in our net sales.. Our competitors may adopt more aggressive sales policies and devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we do, which could result in a loss of customers. The loss of, or a reduction in orders from, any significant customers, losses arising from customer disputes regarding shipments, fees, merchandise condition or related matters, or our inability to collect accounts receivable from any major customer, could have a material adverse effect on us. Also, we have no operational or financial control over these customers and have limited influence over how they conduct their businesses.. Consolidation of our customers and their increasing size could adversely affect our results of operations.. In many of the countries in which we operate, an increasingly large number of building products are sold through large retail home centers and other large retailers. In addition, we have experienced consolidation of distributors in our wholesale distribution channel and among businesses operating in different geographic regions resulting in more customers operating nationally and internationally. If the consolidation of our customers and distributors were to continue, leading to the further increase of their size and purchasing power, we may be challenged to continue to provide consistently high customer service levels for increasing sales volumes, while still offering a broad portfolio of innovative products and on-time and complete deliveries. If we fail to provide high levels of service, broad product offerings, competitive prices and timely and complete deliveries, we could lose a substantial amount of our customer base and our profitability, margins and net sales could decrease. We have also experienced the consolidation of our wholesale distributors by our competitors, such as JELD-WEN's acquisition of Miliken Millwork, Inc. in 2017. Consolidation of our customers could also result in the loss of a customer or a substantial portion of a customer's business.. 13. Table of Contents. If we are unable to accurately predict future demand preferences for our products, our business and results of operations could be materially affected.. A key element to our continued success is the ability to maintain accurate forecasting of future demand preferences for our products. Our business in general is subject to changing consumer and industry trends, demands and preferences. Changes to consumer shopping habits and potential trends towards \"online\" purchases could also impact our ability to compete as we currently sell our products mainly through our distribution channel. Our continued success depends largely on the introduction and acceptance by our customers of new product lines and improvements to existing product lines that respond to such trends, demands and preferences. Trends within the industry change often and our failure to anticipate, identify or quickly react to changes in these trends could lead to, among other things, rejection of a new product line and reduced demand and price reductions for our products, and could materially adversely affect us. In addition, we are subject to the risk that new products could be introduced that would replace or reduce demand for our products. Furthermore, new proprietary designs and/or changes in manufacturing technologies may render our products obsolete or we may not be able to manufacture products or designs at prices that would be competitive in the marketplace. We may not have sufficient resources to make necessary investments or we may be unable to make the investments or acquire the intellectual property rights necessary to develop new products or improve our existing products.. Our business is seasonal which may affect our net sales, cash flows from operations and results of operations.. Our business is moderately seasonal and our sales vary from quarter to quarter based upon the timing of the building season in our markets. Severe weather conditions in any quarter, such as unusually prolonged warm or cold conditions, rain, blizzards or hurricanes, could accelerate, delay or halt construction and renovation activity. The impact of these types of events on our business may adversely impact our sales, cash flows from operations and results of operations. Also, we cannot predict the effects on our business that may result from global climate change, including potential new related laws or regulations. If sales were to fall substantially below what we would normally expect during certain periods, our annual financial results would be adversely impacted. Moreover, our facilities are vulnerable to severe weather conditions.. A disruption in our operations could materially affect our operating results.. We operate facilities worldwide. Many of our facilities are located in areas that are vulnerable to hurricanes, earthquakes and other natural disasters. In the event that a hurricane, earthquake, natural disaster, fire or other catastrophic event were to interrupt our operations for any extended period of time, particularly at one or more of our door facing facilities or architectural door plants, such as when Marshfield experienced an autoclave explosion in July 2011, prior to our acquisition, it could delay shipment of merchandise to our customers, damage our reputation or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Closure of one of our door facing facilities, which are our most capital intensive and least replaceable production facilities, could have a substantial negative effect on our earnings.. In addition, our operations may be interrupted by terrorist attacks or other acts of violence or war. These attacks may directly impact our suppliers' or customers' physical facilities. Furthermore, these attacks may make travel and the transportation of our supplies and products more difficult and more expensive and ultimately affect our operating results. The United States has entered into, and may enter into, additional armed conflicts which could have a further impact on our sales and our ability to deliver product to our customers in the United States and elsewhere. Political and economic instability in some regions of the world, including the current instabilities in the Middle East and North Korea, may also negatively impact our business. The consequences of any of these armed conflicts are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our business or your investment. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the United States and worldwide financial markets and economy. They could also result in economic recession in the United States or abroad. Any of these occurrences could have a significant impact on our operating results.. Manufacturing realignments may result in a decrease in our short-term earnings, until the expected cost reductions are achieved, as well as reduce our flexibility to respond quickly to improved market conditions.. We continually review our manufacturing operations and sourcing capabilities. Effects of periodic manufacturing realignments and cost savings programs have in the past and could in the future result in a decrease in our short-term earnings until the expected cost reductions are achieved. We also cannot assure you we will achieve all. 14. Table of Contents. of our cost savings. Such programs may include the consolidation, integration and upgrading of facilities, functions, systems and procedures. The success of these efforts will depend in part on market conditions, and such actions may not be accomplished as quickly as anticipated and the expected cost reductions may not be achieved or sustained.. In connection with our manufacturing realignment and cost savings programs, we have closed or consolidated a substantial portion of our global operations and reduced our personnel, which may reduce our flexibility to respond quickly to improved market conditions. For example, in 2017 we closed our Algoma, Wisconsin, facility in order to improve our cost structure, expand operational efficiencies and align our plant optimization portfolio. As a result, a failure to anticipate a sharp increase in levels of residential new construction, residential repair, renovation and remodeling and non-residential building construction activity could result in operational difficulties, adversely impacting our ability to provide our products to our customers. This may result in the loss of business to our competitors in the event they are better able to forecast or respond to market demand. There can be no assurance that we will be able to accurately forecast the level of market demand or react in a timely manner to such changes, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to the credit risk of our customers.. We provide credit to our customers in the normal course of business. We generally do not require collateral in extending such credit. An increase in the exposure, coupled with material instances of default, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. Increased prices for raw materials or finished goods used in our products or interruptions in deliveries of raw materials or finished goods could adversely affect our profitability, margins and net sales.. Our profitability is affected by the prices of raw materials and finished goods used in the manufacture of our products. These prices have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate based on a number of factors beyond our control, including world oil prices, changes in supply and demand, general economic or environmental conditions, labor costs, competition, import duties, tariffs, currency exchange rates and, in some cases, government regulation. The commodities we use may undergo major price fluctuations and there is no certainty that we will be able to pass these costs through to our customers. Significant increases in the prices of raw materials or finished goods are more difficult to pass through to customers in a short period of time and may negatively impact our short-term profitability, margins and net sales. In the current competitive environment, opportunities to pass on these cost increases to our customers may be limited.. We require a regular supply of raw materials, such as wood, wood composites, cut stock, steel, glass, core material, paint, stain and primer as well as petroleum-based products such as binders, resins and frames. In certain instances, we depend on a single or limited number of suppliers for these supplies. We typically do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers. If we are not able to accurately forecast our supply needs, the limited number of suppliers may make it difficult to obtain additional raw materials to respond to shifting or increased demand. Our dependency upon regular deliveries from particular suppliers means that interruptions or stoppages in such deliveries could adversely affect our operations until arrangements with alternate suppliers could be made. Furthermore, because our products and the components of some of our products are subject to regulation, such alternative suppliers, even if available, may not be substituted until regulatory approvals for such substitution are received, thereby delaying our ability to respond to supply changes. Moreover, some of our raw materials, especially those that are petroleum or chemical based, interact with other raw materials used in the manufacture of our products and therefore significant lead time may be required to procure a compatible substitute. Substitute materials may also not be of the same quality as our original materials.. If any of our suppliers were unable to deliver materials to us for an extended period of time (including as a result of delays in land or sea shipping), or if we were unable to negotiate acceptable terms for the supply of materials with these or alternative suppliers, our business could suffer. In the future, we may not be able to find acceptable supply alternatives, and any such alternatives could result in increased costs for us. Even if acceptable alternatives are found, the process of locating and securing such alternatives might be disruptive to our business.. Furthermore, raw material prices could increase, and supply could decrease, if other industries compete with us for such materials. For example, we are highly dependent upon our supply of wood chips used for the production of our door facings and wood composite materials. Failure to obtain significant supply may disrupt our operations and even if we are able to obtain sufficient supply, we may not be able to pass increased supply costs on to our customers in the form of price increases, thereby resulting in reduced margins and profits.. 15. Table of Contents. A rapid and prolonged increase in fuel prices may significantly increase our costs and have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. Fuel prices have been volatile and are significantly influenced by international, political and economic circumstances. While fuel prices have fallen from historical highs over the last several years, they have more recently risen and lower fuel prices may not be permanent. If fuel prices were to rise for any reason, including fuel supply shortages or unusual price volatility, the resulting higher fuel prices could materially increase our shipping costs, adversely affecting our results of operations. In addition, competitive pressures in our industry may have the effect of inhibiting our ability to reflect these increased costs in the prices of our products.. We rely on the continuous operation of our information technology and enterprise resource planning systems.. Our information technology systems allow us to accurately maintain books and records, record transactions, provide information to management and prepare our consolidated financial statements. We may not have sufficient redundant operations to cover a loss or failure in a timely manner. Our operations depend on our network of information technology systems, which are vulnerable to damage from hardware failure, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, impacts of terrorism, cybersecurity vulnerabilities (such as threats and attacks), computer viruses, natural disasters or other disasters Any damage to our information technology systems could cause interruptions to our operations that materially adversely affect our ability to meet customers' requirements, resulting in an adverse impact to our business, financial condition and results of operations. Periodically, these systems need to be expanded, updated or upgraded as our business needs change. For example, we are in the process of implementing a new enterprise resource planning system in our architectural business. We may not be able to successfully implement changes in our information technology systems without experiencing difficulties, which could require significant financial and human resources and impact our ability to efficiently service our customers. Moreover, our recent technological initiatives and increasing dependence on technology may exacerbate this risk.. Potential cyber threats and attacks could disrupt our information security systems and cause damage to our business and our reputation.. Information security threats, which pose a risk to the security of our network of systems and the confidentiality and integrity of our data, are increasing in frequency and sophistication, We have established policies, processes and multiple layers of defenses designed to help identify and protect against intentional and unintentional misappropriation or corruption of our network of systems. Should damage to our network of systems occur, it could lead to the compromise of confidential information, manipulation and destruction of data and product specifications, production downtimes, disruption in the availability of financial data, or misrepresentation of information via digital media. While we have not experienced any material breaches in information security, the occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our reputation and could result in litigation, regulatory action, financial loss, project delay claims and increased costs and operational consequences of implementing further data protection systems.. Increases in labor costs, potential labor disputes and work stoppages at our facilities or the facilities of our suppliers could materially adversely affect our financial performance.. Our financial performance is affected by the availability of qualified personnel and the cost of labor. We have approximately 10,000 employees worldwide, including approximately 2,400 unionized workers. Employees represented by these unions are subject to collective bargaining agreements that are subject to periodic negotiation and renewal, including our agreements with employees and their respective work councils in Chile, Mexico and the United Kingdom, which are subject to annual negotiation. If we are unable to enter into new, satisfactory labor agreements with our unionized employees upon expiration of their agreements, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations, which could cause us to be unable to deliver products to customers on a timely basis. If our workers were to engage in strikes, a work stoppage or other slowdowns, we could also experience disruptions of our operations. Such disruptions could result in a loss of business and an increase in our operating expenses, which could reduce our net sales and profit margins. In addition, our non-unionized labor force may become subject to labor union organizing efforts, such as the attempt to organize our Northumberland facility in 2015, which could cause us to incur additional labor costs and increase the related risks that we now face.. We believe many of our direct and indirect suppliers and customers also have unionized workforces. Strikes, work stoppages or slowdowns experienced by these suppliers and customers could result in slowdowns or closures of facilities where components of our products are manufactured or delivered. Any interruption in the production or delivery of these components could reduce sales, increase costs and have a material adverse effect on us.. 16. Table of Contents. Our pension obligations are currently underfunded. We may have to make significant cash payments to our pension plans, which would reduce the cash available for our business.. As of December 31, 2017, our accumulated benefit obligations under our United States and United Kingdom defined benefit pension plans exceeded the fair value of plan assets by $12.2 million and $5.7 million, respectively. During the years ended December 31, 2017, January 1, 2017 and January 3, 2016, we contributed $5.0 million, $5.0 million and $5.2 million, respectively, to the United States pension plan and $1.0 million, $0.8 million and $0.9 million, respectively, to the United Kingdom pension plan. Additional contributions will be required in future years. We currently anticipate making $5.0 million and $0.7 million of contributions to our United States and United Kingdom pension plans, respectively, in 2018. If the performance of the assets in our pension plans does not meet our expectations or other actuarial assumptions are modified, our contributions to our pension plans could be materially higher than we expect, which would reduce the cash available for our businesses. In addition, our United States pension plans are subject to Title IV of the United States Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or ERISA. Under ERISA, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, or the PBGC, generally has the authority to terminate an underfunded pension plan if the possible long-run loss to the PBGC with respect to the plan may reasonably be expected to increase substantially if the plan is not terminated. In the event our pension plans are terminated for any reason while the plans are underfunded, we may incur a liability to the PBGC which could be equal to the entire amount of the underfunding.. Our recent acquisitions and any future acquisitions, if available, could be difficult to integrate and could adversely affect our operating results.. In the past several years we completed several strategic acquisitions of door and door component manufacturers in North America and the United Kingdom. Historically, we have made acquisitions to vertically integrate and expand our operations, such as our acquisitions of DW3 in 2018; A&F Wood Products in 2017; FyreWerks in 2016; USA Wood Door, Hickman and PDS in 2015; Harring and Door-Stop in 2014; the assets of a door manufacturing operation located in Chile in 2013; Lemieux, Algoma, and Baillargeon in 2012; and Birchwood and Marshfield in 2011. From time to time, we have evaluated and we continue to evaluate possible acquisition transactions on an on-going basis. Our acquisitions may not be accretive. At any time we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to possible acquisitions or may have entered into non-binding letters of intent. As part of our strategy, we expect to continue to pursue complementary acquisitions and investments and may expand into product lines or businesses with which we have little or no operating experience. For example, future acquisitions may involve building product categories other than doors. We may also engage in further vertical integration. However, we may face competition for attractive targets and we may not be able to source appropriate acquisition targets at prices acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, in order to pursue our acquisition strategy, we will need significant liquidity, which, as a result of the other factors described herein, may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all.. Our recent and any future acquisitions involve a number of risks, including:. • our inability to integrate the acquired business;. • our inability to manage acquired businesses or control integration and other costs relating to acquisitions;. • our lack of experience with a particular business should we invest in a new product line;. • diversion of management attention;. • our failure to achieve projected synergies or cost savings;. • impairment of goodwill affecting our reported net income;. • our inability to retain the management or other key employees of the acquired business;. • our inability to establish uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies;. • our inability to retain customers of our acquired companies;. • risks associated with the internal controls of acquired companies;. • exposure to legal claims for activities of the acquired business prior to the acquisition;. • our due diligence procedures could fail to detect material issues related to the acquired business;. • unforeseen management and operational difficulties, particularly if we acquire assets or businesses in new foreign jurisdictions where we have little or no operational experience;. • damage to our reputation as a result of performance or customer satisfaction problems relating to an acquired businesses;. • the performance of any acquired business could be lower than we anticipated; and. • our inability to enforce indemnifications and non-compete agreements.. 17. Table of Contents. The integration of any future acquisition into our business will likely require substantial time, effort, attention and dedication of management resources and may distract our management in unpredictable ways from our ordinary operations. The integration may also result in consolidation of certain existing operations. If we cannot successfully execute on our investments on a timely basis, we may be unable to generate sufficient net sales to offset acquisition, integration or expansion costs, we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate, and our expectations of future results of operations, including cost savings and synergies, may not be achieved. If we are not able to effectively manage recent or future acquisitions or realize their anticipated benefits, it may harm our results of operations.. We are exposed to political, economic and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business.. We have operations in the United States, Canada, Europe and, to a lesser extent, other foreign jurisdictions. In the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 66% of our net sales were in the United States, 16% in Canada and 12% in the United Kingdom. Further, certain of our businesses obtain raw materials and finished goods from foreign suppliers. Accordingly, our business is subject to political, economic and other risks that are inherent in operating in numerous countries.. These risks include:. • the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems;. • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements;. • tax rates in foreign countries and the imposition of withholding requirements on foreign earnings;. • the imposition of tariffs or other restrictions;. • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations and the application of foreign labor regulations;. • required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; and. • changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate.. Our business success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. We cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business as a whole.. The United Kingdom's formal trigger of the two year process for its exit from the European Union, and related negotiations. In June 2016, voters in the United Kingdom voted for a non-binding referendum in favor of the United Kingdom exiting the European Union. The United Kingdom formally initiated the withdrawal process on March 29, 2017, and the terms of any withdrawal are subject to a negotiation period that could last until March 29, 2019. The eventual exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union and negotiations leading up to that exit could adversely affect European and worldwide economic and market conditions. As a result, there has been, and may continue to be, instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets, including volatility in the value of the Pound Sterling and the Euro. Uncertainty about global or regional economic conditions poses a risk as consumers and businesses may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on the European housing market, particularly in the United Kingdom, and demand for our products in the foreseeable future.. Fluctuating exchange and interest rates could adversely affect our financial results.. Our financial results may be adversely affected by fluctuating exchange rates. Net sales generated outside of the United States were approximately 34% for the year ended December 31, 2017. In addition, a significant percentage of our costs during the same period were not denominated in U.S. dollars. For example, for most of our manufacturing facilities, the prices for a significant portion of our raw materials are quoted in the domestic currency of the country where the facility is located or other currencies that are not U.S. dollars. We also have substantial assets outside the United States. As a result, the volatility in the price of the U.S. dollar has exposed, and in the future may continue to expose, us to currency exchange risks. For example, we are subject to currency exchange rate risk to the extent that some of our costs will be denominated in currencies other than those in which we earn revenues. Also, since our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies have had, and will continue to have, an impact on many aspects of our financial results. Changes in currency exchange rates for any country in which we operate may require us to raise the prices of our products in that country and may result in the loss of business to our competitors that sell their products at lower prices in that country.. 18. Table of Contents. Moreover, as our current indebtedness is denominated in a currency that is different from the currencies in which we derive a significant portion of our net sales, we are also exposed to currency exchange rate risk with respect to those financial obligations. When the outstanding indebtedness is repaid, we may be subject to taxes on any corresponding foreign currency gain.. Borrowings under our current ABL Facility are incurred at variable rates of interest, which exposes us to interest rate fluctuation risk. If interest rates increase, the payments we are required to make on any variable rate indebtedness will increase.. We may fail to continue to innovate, face claims that we infringe third party intellectual property rights, or be unable to protect our intellectual property from infringement by others except by incurring substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent or trademark rights, any of which could cause our net sales or profitability to decline.. Our continued success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new or improved products, to improve our manufacturing and product service processes, and to protect our rights to the technologies used in our products. If we fail to do so, or if existing or future competitors achieve greater success than we do in these areas, our results of operations and our profitability may decline.. We rely on a combination of United States, Canadian and, to a lesser extent, European patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws as well as licenses, nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual restrictions to protect certain aspects of our business. We have registered trademarks, copyrights and our patent and trademark applications may not be allowed by the applicable governmental authorities to issue as patents or register as trademarks at all, or in a form that will be advantageous to us. In addition, we have selectively pursued patent and trademark protection, and in some instances we may not have registered important patent and trademark rights in these and other countries. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The failure to obtain worldwide patent and trademark protection may result in other companies copying and marketing products based upon our technologies or under our brand or trade names outside the jurisdictions in which we are protected. This could impede our growth in existing regions and into new regions, create confusion among consumers and result in a greater supply of similar products that could erode prices for our protected products.. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and licensed intellectual property from unauthorized use by others. We cannot be sure that the patents we have obtained, or other protections such as confidentiality, trade secrets and copyrights, will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others. If we are unable to protect our products through the enforcement of intellectual property rights, our ability to compete based on our current advantages may be harmed. If we fail to prevent substantial unauthorized use of our trade secrets, we risk the loss of those intellectual property rights and whatever competitive advantage they embody.. Although we are not aware that any of our products or intellectual property rights materially infringe upon the proprietary rights of third parties, third parties may accuse us of infringing or misappropriating their patents, trademarks, copyrights or trade secrets. Third parties may also challenge our trademark rights and branding practices in the future. We may be required to institute or defend litigation to defend ourselves from such accusations or to enforce our patent, trademark and copyright rights from unauthorized use by others, which, regardless of the outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our competitive position, sales, profitability and reputation. If we lose a patent infringement suit, we may be liable for money damages and be enjoined from selling the infringing product unless we can obtain a license or are able to redesign our product to avoid infringement. A license may not be available at all or on terms acceptable to us, and we may not be able to redesign our products to avoid any infringement, which could negatively affect our profitability. In addition, our patents, trademarks and other proprietary rights may be subject to various attacks claiming they are invalid or unenforceable. These attacks might invalidate, render unenforceable or otherwise limit the scope of the protection that our patents and trademarks afford. If we lose the use of a product name, our efforts spent building that brand may be lost and we will have to rebuild a brand for that product, which we may or may not be able to do. Even if we prevail in a patent infringement suit, there is no assurance that third parties will not be able to design around our patents, which could harm our competitive position.. 19. Table of Contents. If we are unable to replace our expiring patents, our ability to compete both domestically and internationally will be harmed. In addition, our products face the risk of obsolescence, which, if realized, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We depend on our door manufacturing intellectual property and products to generate revenue. Some of our patents will begin to expire in the next several years. While we will continue to work to add to our patent portfolio to protect the intellectual property of our products, we believe it is possible that new competitors will emerge in door manufacturing. We do not know whether we will be able to develop additional proprietary designs, processes or products. If any protection we obtain is reduced or eliminated, others could use our intellectual property without compensating us, resulting in harm to our business. Moreover, as our patents expire, competitors may utilize the information found in such patents to commercialize their own products. While we seek to offset the losses relating to important expiring patents by securing additional patents on commercially desirable improvements, and new products, designs and processes, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in securing such additional patents, or that such additional patents will adequately offset the effect of the expiring patents.. Further, we face the risk that third parties will succeed in developing or marketing products that would render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. New, less expensive methods could be developed that replace or reduce the demand for our products or may cause our customers to delay or defer purchasing our products. Accordingly, our success depends in part upon our ability to respond quickly to market changes through the development and introduction of new products. The relative speed with which we can develop products, complete regulatory clearance or approval processes and supply commercial quantities of the products to the market are expected to be important competitive factors. Any delays could result in a loss of market acceptance and market share. We cannot provide assurance that our new product development efforts will result in any commercially successful products.. We may be the subject of product liability claims or product recalls, we may not accurately estimate costs related to such claims or recalls, and we may not have sufficient insurance coverage available to cover potential liabilities.. Our products are used and have been used in a wide variety of residential and architectural applications. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability or other claims, including class action lawsuits, in the event our products are alleged to be defective or that the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in harm to others or to property. Because we manufacture a significant portion of our products based on the specific requirements of our customers, failure to provide our customers the products and services they specify could result in product-related claims and reduced or cancelled orders and delays in the collection of accounts receivable. We may in the future incur liability if product liability lawsuits against us are successful. Moreover, any such lawsuits, whether or not successful, could result in adverse publicity to us, which could cause our sales to decline materially. In addition, it may be necessary for us to recall defective products, which would also result in adverse publicity, as well as resulting in costs connected to the recall and loss of net sales. We maintain insurance coverage to protect us against product liability claims, but that coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims that may arise or we may not be able to maintain adequate insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost. Any liability not covered by insurance or that exceeds our established reserves could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, consistent with industry practice, we provide warranties on many of our products and we may experience costs of warranty or breach of contract claims if our products have defects in manufacture or design or they do not meet contractual specifications. We estimate our future warranty costs based on historical trends and product sales, but we may fail to accurately estimate those costs and thereby fail to establish adequate warranty reserves for them.. The loss of certain members of our management may have an adverse effect on our operating results.. Our success will depend, in part, on the efforts of our senior management and other key employees. These individuals possess sales, marketing, engineering, manufacturing, financial and administrative skills and know-how that are critical to the operation of our business. If we lose or suffer an extended interruption in the services of one or more of our senior officers or other key employees, our financial condition and results of operations may be negatively affected. Moreover, the pool of qualified individuals may be highly competitive and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel to replace or succeed members of our senior management or other key employees, should the need arise. The loss of the services of any key personnel, or our inability to hire new personnel with the requisite skills, could impair our ability to develop new products or enhance existing products, sell products to our customers or manage our business effectively.. 20. Table of Contents. Lack of transparency, threat of fraud, public sector corruption and other forms of criminal activity involving government officials increases risk for potential liability under anti-bribery or anti-fraud legislation, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.. We operate facilities in 8 countries and sell our products in 65 countries around the world. As a result of these international operations, we may enter from time to time into negotiations and contractual arrangements with parties affiliated with foreign governments and their officials. In connection with these activities, we are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\"), the United Kingdom Bribery Act and other anti-bribery laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by United States and other business entities for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, or otherwise receiving discretionary favorable treatment of any kind and requires the maintenance of internal controls to prevent such payments. In particular, we may be held liable for actions taken by our local partners and agents in foreign countries where we operate, even though such parties are not always subject to our control. As part of our Masonite Values Operating Guide we have established FCPA and other anti-bribery policies and procedures and offer several channels for raising concerns in an effort to comply with applicable U.S. and international laws and regulations. However, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will effectively prevent us from violating these laws and regulations in every transaction in which we may engage. Any determination that we have violated the FCPA or other anti-bribery laws (whether directly or through acts of others, intentionally or through inadvertence) could result in sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. As we continue to expand our business globally, we may have difficulty anticipating and effectively managing these and other risks that our international operations may face, which may adversely impact our business outside of North America and our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any acquisition of businesses with operations outside of North America may exacerbate this risk.. Environmental requirements and other government regulation may impose significant environmental and legal compliance costs and liabilities on us.. Our operations are subject to numerous Canadian (federal, provincial and local), United States (federal, state and local), European (European Union, national and local) and other laws and regulations relating to pollution and the protection of human health and the environment, including, without limitation, those governing emissions to air, discharges to water, storage, treatment and disposal of waste, releases of contaminants or hazardous or toxic substances, remediation of contaminated sites and protection of worker health and safety. From time to time, our facilities are subject to investigation by governmental regulators. Despite our efforts to comply with environmental requirements, we are at risk of being subject to civil, administrative or criminal enforcement actions, of being held liable, of being subject to an order or of incurring costs, fines or penalties for, among other things, releases of contaminants or hazardous or toxic substances occurring on or emanating from currently or formerly owned or operated properties or any associated offsite disposal location, or for contamination discovered at any of our properties from activities conducted by us or by previous occupants. Although, with the exception of costs incurred relating to compliance with Maximum Achievable Control Technology requirements (as described below), we have not incurred significant costs for environmental matters in prior years, future expenditures required to comply with any changes in environmental requirements are anticipated to be undertaken as part of our ongoing capital investment program, which is primarily designed to improve the efficiency of our various manufacturing processes. The amount of any resulting liabilities, costs, fines or penalties may be material.. In addition, the requirements of such laws and enforcement policies have generally become more stringent over time. Changes in environmental laws and regulations or in their enforcement or the discovery of previously unknown or unanticipated contamination or non-compliance with environmental laws or regulations relating to our properties or operations could result in significant environmental liabilities or costs which could adversely affect our business. In addition, we might incur increased operating and maintenance costs and capital expenditures and other costs to comply with increasingly stringent air emission control laws or other future requirements (such as, in the United States, those relating to compliance with Maximum Achievable Control Technology requirements under the Clean Air Act, for which we made capital expenditures totaling approximately $49 million from 2008 through 2010), which may decrease our cash flow. Also, discovery of currently unknown or unanticipated conditions could require responses that would result in significant liabilities and costs. Accordingly, we are unable to predict the ultimate costs of compliance with or liability under environmental laws, which may be larger than current projections.. 21. Table of Contents. Changes in government regulation may have a material effect on our results of operations.. Our manufacturing facilities and components of our products are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations, including those relating to the presence of hazardous materials and protection of worker health and safety. Liability under these laws involves inherent uncertainties. Changes in such laws and regulations or in their enforcement could significantly increase our costs of operations which could adversely affect our business. Violations of health and safety laws are subject to civil, and, in some cases, criminal sanctions. As a result of these uncertainties, we may incur unexpected interruptions to operations, fines, penalties or other reductions in income which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Further, in order for our products to obtain the energy efficient \"ENERGYSTAR\" label, they must meet certain requirements set by the Environmental Protection Agency, or the EPA. Changes in the energy efficiency requirements established by the EPA for the ENERGYSTAR label could increase our costs, and, if there is a lapse in our ability to label our products as such or we are not able to comply with the new standards at all, negatively affect our net sales and results of operations.. Moreover, many of our products are regulated by building codes and require specific fire, penetration or wind resistance characteristics. A change in the building codes could have a material impact on the manufacturing cost for these products, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers.. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Act and related regulations implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, and the stock exchanges are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time-consuming. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices.. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management's time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed. We also expect that being a public company and these new rules and regulations will make it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee and compensation committee, and attract and retain qualified executive officers.. To service our consolidated indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control, and any failure to meet our debt service obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our estimated annual payment obligation for 2018 with respect to our consolidated indebtedness is $35.2 million of interest payments. When we draw funds under the ABL Facility, we incur additional interest expense. Our ability to pay interest on and principal of the senior notes and our ability to satisfy our other debt obligations will principally depend upon our future operating performance. As a result, prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, will affect our ability to make these payments.. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our consolidated debt service obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our indebtedness, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt instruments, including the ABL Facility and the indenture governing the senior notes, may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. If we are unable. 22. Table of Contents. to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations, or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms, it would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Under such circumstances, we may be unable to comply with the provisions of our debt instruments, including the financial covenants in the ABL Facility. If we are unable to satisfy such covenants or other provisions at any future time, we would need to seek an amendment or waiver of such financial covenants or other provisions. The lenders under the ABL Facility may not consent to any amendment or waiver requests that we may make in the future, and, if they do consent, they may not do so on terms which are favorable to us. The lenders will also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. If we are unable to obtain any such waiver or amendment, our inability to meet the financial covenants or other provisions of the ABL Facility would constitute an event of default thereunder, which would permit the lenders to accelerate repayment of borrowings under the ABL Facility, which in turn would constitute an event of the default under the indenture governing the senior notes, permitting the holders of the senior notes to accelerate payment thereon. Our assets and/or cash flow, and/or that of our subsidiaries, may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default, and the secured lenders under the ABL Facility could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. Such events would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on our ability to satisfy our obligations in respect of the senior notes.. The terms of the ABL Facility and the indenture governing the senior notes may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to take certain actions.. The credit agreement governing the ABL Facility and the indenture governing the senior notes contain, and the terms of any future indebtedness of ours would likely contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions, including restrictions on our ability to engage in acts that may be in our best long-term interests. The indenture governing the senior notes and the credit agreements governing the ABL Facility include covenants that, among other things, restrict our and our subsidiaries' ability to:. • incur additional indebtedness and issue disqualified or preferred stock;. • make restricted payments;. • sell assets;. • create restrictions on the ability of their restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or distributions;. • create or incur liens;. • enter into sale and lease-back transactions;. • merge or consolidate with other entities; and. • enter into transactions with affiliates.. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in the debt agreements we will enter into in connection with this offering and the ABL Facility and any future financing agreements may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Shares. Our share price may change significantly and you could lose all or part of your investment as a result.. The trading price of our common shares could fluctuate due to a number of factors such as those listed in \"Risks Related to Our Business\" and the following, some of which are beyond our control:. • quarterly variations in our results of operations;. • results of operations that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors;. • results of operations that vary from those of our competitors;. • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors;. • announcements by us, our competitors or our vendors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments;. • announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us;. • future sales of our common shares; and. • general domestic and international economic conditions.. 23. Table of Contents. Furthermore, the stock market has experienced extreme volatility that, in some cases, has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common shares, regardless of our actual operating performance.. In the past, following periods of market volatility, shareholders have instituted securities class action litigation. If we were involved in securities litigation, it could have a substantial cost and divert resources and the attention of executive management from our business regardless of the outcome of such litigation.. The availability of shares for sale in the future could reduce the market price of our common shares.. In the future, we may issue securities to raise cash for acquisitions or otherwise. We may also acquire interests in other companies by using a combination of cash and our common shares or just our common shares. We may also issue securities convertible into our common shares. Any of these events may dilute your ownership interest in our company and have an adverse impact on the price of our common shares.. In addition, sales of a substantial amount of our common shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could reduce the market price of our common shares. This could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our securities.. A small number of our shareholders could be able to significantly influence our business and affairs, limiting your ability to influence corporate matters.. As of December 31, 2017, shareholders owning 5% or more of our outstanding common shares reported their significant ownership positions in their Schedule 13G filings. As a result of their holdings, these shareholders may be able to significantly influence the outcome of any matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors, mergers and takeover offers, regardless of whether others believe that approval of those matters is in our best interests.. United States civil liabilities may not be enforceable against us.. We exist under the laws of the Province of British Columbia, Canada. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us and those experts, or to enforce outside the United States judgments obtained in United States courts, in any action, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of United States securities laws. Additionally, it may be difficult for investors to enforce, in original actions brought in courts in jurisdictions located outside the United States, rights predicated upon United States securities laws. In particular, there is uncertainty as to the enforceability in Canada by a court in original actions, or in actions to enforce judgments of United States courts, of the civil liabilities predicated upon the United States securities laws. Based on the foregoing, there can be no assurance that United States investors will be able to enforce against us or certain experts named herein who are residents of countries other than the United States any judgments obtained in United States courts in civil and commercial matters, including judgments under the United States federal securities laws. In addition, there is doubt as to whether a court in the Province of British Columbia would impose civil liability on us, our directors, officers or certain experts named herein in an original action predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States brought in a court of competent jurisdiction in the Province of British Columbia against us or such directors, officers or experts, respectively.. Canadian laws differ from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to holders of our securities.. We are a company that exists under the laws of the Province of British Columbia, Canada and are subject to the Business Corporations Act (British Columbia) and certain other applicable securities laws as a Canadian issuer (nonreporting issuer), which laws may differ from those governing a company formed under the laws of a United States jurisdiction. The provisions under the Business Corporations Act (British Columbia) and other relevant laws may affect the rights of shareholders differently than those of a company governed by the laws of a United States jurisdiction, and may, together with our amended and restated articles of amalgamation, or the Articles, have the effect of delaying, deferring or discouraging another party from acquiring control of our company by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise, or may affect the price an acquiring party would be willing to offer in such an instance.. 24. Table of Contents. If securities or industry research analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our common shares, our share price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common shares relies in part on the research and reports that securities and industry research analysts publish about us, our industry, our competitors and our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. Our share price and trading volumes could decline if one or more securities or industry analysts downgrade our common shares, issue unfavorable commentary about us, our industry or business, cease to cover our Company or fail to regularly publish reports about us, our industry or our business."
