[1] "ITEM  1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information in this Form 10-K.  If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline.. Risks Related to Our Industry and Our Customers' Industries. Many of the industries we serve are subject to customer consolidation, rapid technological and regulatory changes.  Our inability or failure to adjust to our customers' changing needs could result in decreased demand for our services.  Additionally, demand for construction services depends on industry activity and expenditure levels, which can be affected by a variety of factors, including changes in governmental regulations and policies.. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from customers in industries that are subject to consolidation, rapid changes in technology and governmental regulation.  Regulatory requirements pertaining to permitting and/or political or social activism related to potential or ongoing project work could result in cancellations or deferrals of projects, which could materially affect demand for our services.  Consolidation of any of our customers, or groups of our customers, could result in the loss of customers or could affect customer demand for the services we provide.  Additionally, changes in technology could reduce demand for the services we provide.  For example, the telecommunications industry is characterized by rapid technological change, intense competition and changing consumer demands.  In the energy industries, technological advances could result in lower costs for sources. 11. of energy, which could render existing natural gas and/or renewable energy projects and technologies uncompetitive or obsolete.  New technologies or upgrades to existing technologies by customers could reduce demand for our services.  Additionally, our failure to rapidly adopt and master new technologies as they are developed in any of the industries we serve could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.. Furthermore, many of our customers face stringent regulatory and environmental requirements and permitting processes, including governmental regulations and policies pertaining to the exportation, exploration, production, development and transportation of oil and natural gas, as well as environmental laws, climate change initiatives, and effects of political or social activism, any of which could result in delays and/or cancellations of current or planned future projects that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.. Unfavorable market conditions and/or economic downturns could reduce capital expenditures in the industries we serve or could adversely affect our customers, which could result in decreased demand for our services or impair our customers' ability to pay for our services.. The demand for our services has been, and will likely continue to be, cyclical in nature and vulnerable to general downturns in the U.S. economy and the economies of the countries in which we operate.  During economic downturns, our customers may not have the ability to fund capital expenditures for infrastructure, or may have difficulty obtaining financing for planned projects.  In addition, uncertain or adverse economic conditions that create volatility in the credit and equity markets could reduce the availability of debt or equity financing for our customers, causing them to reduce capital spending, which, in the past has resulted, and in the future could result, in cancellations of projects or deferral of projects to a later date.  Such cancellations or deferrals could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.  These conditions could also make it difficult to estimate our customers' demand for our services and add uncertainty to the determination of our backlog.. Furthermore, unfavorable market conditions and/or economic downturns could negatively affect our customers and decrease the need for their services or the profitability of their services.  Fluctuations in commodity prices and/or decreased demand by end-customers in the industries we serve could affect our customers and their capital expenditure plans.  We continually monitor our customers' industries and their relative health compared to the economy as a whole because we have previously been negatively affected by economic downturns.  Historically, the markets for oil and gas have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile.  Prices for oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids are potentially subject to large fluctuations in response to changes in supply and demand, as well as market uncertainty and a variety of other factors that are beyond our control.  Demand for pipeline construction services is sensitive to the level of exploration, development, production, transportation, processing and refining activity of, and the corresponding capital spending by, oil and natural gas companies and demand by industrial and utility customers.  Spending on exploration and production activities by large oil and gas companies has a significant effect on the demand for pipeline construction services.  For example, the volatility experienced in recent years in the oil markets has had a significant effect on pipeline activities in western Canada.  In addition, in the past, reductions in new housing starts have negatively affected our customers who utilize our services to construct their \"last mile\" of communications infrastructure, and such reductions have also had negative effects on other industries we serve, including electrical utility transmission and grid connection as well as pipeline construction.  Additionally, our customers who provide communications, install-to-the-home and customer fulfillment services could be adversely affected by an economic downturn if new services and upgrades are not ordered at the rate that our customers anticipate.  During an economic downturn, our customers may also not have the ability or desire to continue to fund capital expenditures for infrastructure work or may outsource less work.  A decrease in such project work could negatively impact demand for the services we provide and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.. Slowing conditions in the industries we serve, economic downturns or bankruptcies could impair the financial condition of one or more of our customers and hinder their ability to pay us on a timely basis.  In the past, we incurred significant losses after a number of customers filed for bankruptcy or experienced financial difficulties following a general economic downturn, in which certain industry factors worsened the effect of the overall economic downturn on those customers.  In difficult economic times, some of our clients may find it difficult to pay for our services on a timely basis, increasing the risk that our accounts receivable could become uncollectible and ultimately be written off.  In certain cases, our clients are project-specific entities that do not have significant assets other than their interests in the project.  From time to time, it may be difficult for us to collect payments owed to us by these clients.  Delays in client payments may require us to make a working capital investment, which could negatively impact our cash flows and liquidity.  If a client fails to pay us on a timely basis or defaults in making payments on a project for which we have devoted significant resources, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.. Our industry is highly competitive, which could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance.. Our industry is highly fragmented, and we compete with other companies in most of the markets in which we operate, ranging from small independent firms servicing local markets to larger firms servicing regional and national markets.  We also face competition from existing and prospective customers that employ in-house personnel to perform some of the services we provide.  There are relatively few barriers to entry into certain of the markets in which we operate and, as a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise and skilled personnel may become a competitor.  Most of our customers' work is awarded through a bid process.  Consequently, price is often the principal factor that determines which service provider is selected, especially on smaller, less complex projects.  Smaller competitors sometimes win bids for these projects based on price alone due to their lower costs and financial return requirements.  However, our bids for certain projects may not be successful because of a customer's perception of our relative ability to perform the work as compared to our competitors or a customer's perception of technological advantages held by our competitors as well as other factors.  Our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in bidding for projects or renewing our master service agreements, or if our ability to win such projects or agreements requires that we accept lower margins.  We also face competition from the in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers.  As such, we cannot be certain that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource services in the future, either at the same rate, or at all.. Risks Related to Our Business. Our failure to properly manage projects, or project delays, could result in additional costs or claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. 12. Certain of our engagements involve large-scale, complex projects that may occur over extended time periods.  The quality of our performance on such a project depends in large part upon our ability to manage our client relationship and the project itself and to timely deploy appropriate resources, including third-party contractors and our own personnel.  Our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity could be adversely affected if we miscalculate the resources or time needed to complete a project with capped or fixed fees, or the resources or time needed to meet contractual milestones.  Additionally, delays on a particular project, including delays in designs, engineering information or materials provided by the customer or a third party, delays or difficulties in equipment and material delivery, schedule changes, delays from a customer's failure to timely obtain permits or rights-of-way or to meet other regulatory requirements, weather-related delays, permitting delays, governmental, market, political and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, could result in cancellations or deferrals of project work, which could lead to a decline in revenue, or, for project deferrals, could cause us to incur costs for standby pay, and could lead to personnel shortages on other projects scheduled to commence at a later date.. We could also encounter project delays due to local opposition, including political and social activism, which could include injunctive actions or public protests related to the siting of oil, natural gas, or electric power transmission lines or for power generation or other facilities, and such delays could adversely affect our project margins.  In addition, some of our agreements require that we share in cost overages or pay liquidated damages if we do not meet project deadlines; therefore, any failure to properly estimate or manage cost, or delays in the completion of projects, could subject us to penalties, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.  Further, any defects or errors, or failures to meet our customers' expectations, could result in large damage claims against us.  Due to the substantial cost of, and potentially long lead-times necessary to acquire, certain of the materials and equipment used in our complex projects, damage claims could substantially exceed the amount we can charge for our associated services.. Our failure to recover adequately on claims against project owners, subcontractors or suppliers for payment or performance could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. We occasionally bring claims against project owners for additional costs that exceed the contract price or for amounts not included in the original contract price.  Similarly, we present change orders and claims to our subcontractors and suppliers.  If we fail to properly document the nature of change orders or claims, or are otherwise unsuccessful in negotiating a reasonable settlement, we could incur reduced profits, cost overruns or project losses.  These types of claims can often occur due to matters such as owner-caused delays, changes from the initial project scope, which result in additional costs, both direct and indirect, or from project or contract terminations.  From time to time, these claims can be the subject of lengthy and costly proceedings, and it is often difficult to accurately predict when these claims will be fully resolved.  When these types of events occur and unresolved claims are pending, we may invest significant working capital in projects to cover cost overruns pending the resolution of the relevant claims.  A failure to promptly recover on these types of claims could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial results.. We may not accurately estimate the costs associated with services provided under fixed price contracts, which could impair our financial performance.. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from fixed-price master service and other service agreements.  Under these contracts, we typically set the price of our services on a per unit or aggregate basis and assume the risk that costs associated with our performance may be greater than what we estimated.  In addition to master service and other service agreements, we enter into contracts for specific projects or jobs that may require the installation or construction of an entire infrastructure system or specified units within an infrastructure system, which are priced on a per unit basis.  Profitability will be reduced if actual costs to complete a project exceed our original estimates.  If estimated costs to complete the remaining work for a project exceed the expected revenue to be earned, the full amount of any expected loss on the project is recognized in the period the loss is determined.  Our profitability is therefore dependent upon our ability to accurately estimate the costs associated with our services and our ability to execute in accordance with our plans.  A variety of factors could negatively affect these costs, such as lower than anticipated productivity, conditions at work sites differing materially from those anticipated at the time we bid on the contract and higher than expected costs of materials and labor.  These variations, along with other risks inherent in performing fixed price contracts, could cause actual project revenue and profits to differ from original estimates, which could result in lower margins than anticipated, or losses, which could reduce our profitability, cash flows and liquidity.. Our business may be affected by difficult work sites and environments, which could cause delays and/or increase our costs and reduce profitability.. We perform work under a variety of conditions, including, but not limited to, challenging and hard to reach terrain and difficult site conditions.  Performing work under such conditions can result in project delays or cancellations, potentially causing us to incur additional, unanticipated costs, reductions in revenue or the payment of liquidated damages.  In addition, some of our contracts require that we assume the risk should actual site conditions vary from those expected.  Some of our projects involve challenging engineering, procurement and construction phases, which may occur over extended time periods.  We may encounter difficulties in engineering, delays in designs or materials provided by the customer or a third party, equipment and material delivery delays, schedule changes, delays from customer failure to timely obtain rights-of-way, weather-related delays, delays by subcontractors in completing their portion of the project and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, but which affect our ability to complete a project as originally scheduled.  In some cases, delays and additional costs may be substantial, and we may be required to cancel a project and/or compensate the customer for the delay.  We may not be able to recover any of such costs.  Any such delays or cancellations or errors or other failures to meet customer expectations could result in damage claims substantially in excess of the revenue associated with a project.  Delays or cancellations could also negatively impact our reputation or relationships with our customers, which could adversely affect our ability to secure new contracts.. We recognize revenue for certain projects using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting; therefore, variations of actual results from our assumptions could reduce our profitability.. We recognize revenue from fixed price contracts, as well as for certain projects pursuant to master and other service agreements, using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, under which the percentage of revenue to be recognized in a given period is measured by the percentage of costs incurred to date on the contract to the total estimated costs for the contract.  The percentage-of-completion method, therefore, relies on estimates of total expected contract costs.  Contract revenue and total cost estimates are reviewed and revised on an ongoing basis as the work progresses.  Adjustments arising from changes in the estimates of contract revenues or costs are reflected in the fiscal period in which such estimates are revised.  Estimates are based on management's reasonable assumptions, judgment and experience, but are subject to the risks inherent in estimates, including. 13. unanticipated delays or technical complications.  Variances in actual results from related estimates on a large project, or on several smaller projects, could be material.  The full amount of an estimated loss on a contract is recognized in the period that our estimates indicate such a loss.  Such adjustments could result in reduced profitability, which could negatively affect our results of operations.. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from a few customers, and the loss of one or more of these customers, or a reduction in their demand for our services, could impair our financial performance.. Our business is concentrated among relatively few customers, and a substantial proportion of our services are provided on a non-recurring, project by project basis.  Our revenue could significantly decline if we were to lose one or more of our significant customers, or if one or more of our customers elected to perform the work that we provide with in-house service teams.  In addition, our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity could be negatively affected if our customers reduce the amount of business they provide to us, or if we complete the required work on non-recurring projects and cannot replace them with similar projects.  Many of the contracts with our largest customers may be canceled on short or no advance notice.  Any of these factors could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.  See Note 1 - Business, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies, Note 13 - Segments and Related Information and Note 14 - Commitments and Contingencies, in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements, which are incorporated by reference, for customer and project concentration information.. Amounts included in our backlog may not result in actual revenue or translate into profits.  Our backlog is subject to cancellation and unexpected adjustments and is, therefore, an uncertain indicator of future operating results.. Our backlog consists of the estimated amount of services to be completed from future work on uncompleted contracts, including new contracts under which work has not begun, as well as revenue from change orders and renewal options.  A significant portion of our 18-month backlog is attributable to master service agreements and other service agreements, none of which require our customers to purchase a minimum amount of services and are cancelable on short or no advance notice.  The balance of our backlog is our estimate of work to be completed on fixed price agreements.  Backlog amounts are determined based on estimates that incorporate historical trends, anticipated seasonal impacts, experience from similar projects and from communications with our customers.  These estimates may prove inaccurate, which could cause estimated revenue to be realized in periods later than originally expected, or not at all.  In the past, we have occasionally experienced postponements, cancellations and reductions in expected future work due to changes in our customers' spending plans, or due to market volatility, regulatory or other factors.  There can be no assurance as to our customers' requirements or the accuracy of our estimates.  As a result, our backlog as of any particular date is an uncertain indicator of future revenue and earnings.  In addition, contracts included in our backlog may not be profitable.  If our backlog fails to materialize, our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity would be materially and adversely affected.. We maintain a workforce based upon current and anticipated workloads.  We could incur significant costs and reduced profitability from underutilization of our workforce if we do not receive future contract awards, if contract awards are delayed, or if there is a significant reduction in the level of services we provide.. Our estimates of future performance and results of operations depend, among other factors, on whether and when we receive new contract awards, which affect the extent to which we are able to utilize our workforce.  The rate at which we utilize our workforce is affected by a variety of factors, including our ability to forecast our need for services, which allows us to maintain an appropriately sized workforce, our ability to transition employees from completed projects to new projects or between internal business groups, our ability to manage attrition, and our need to devote resources to non-chargeable activities such as training or business development.  While our estimates are based upon our good faith judgment, these estimates can be unreliable and may frequently change based on newly available information.  In the case of large-scale projects where timing is often uncertain, it is particularly difficult to predict whether and when we will receive a contract award.  The uncertainty of contract award timing can present difficulties in matching our workforce size to our contract needs.  If an expected contract award is delayed or not received, we could incur costs resulting from reductions in staff or redundancy of facilities, which could reduce our profitability and cash flows.. Many of our contracts do not obligate our customers to undertake any infrastructure projects or other work with us.  Additionally, most of our contracts may be canceled on short or no advance notice, which could reduce our revenue, and certain of our contracts with customers are subject to their ability to secure financing or other conditions and therefore, may not result in revenue or profits.. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from multi-year master service and other service agreements, under which we provide customers with project services through work orders within defined geographic areas on a fixed fee basis.  Under these agreements, our customers have no obligation to undertake any infrastructure projects or other work with us.  This makes it difficult to estimate our customers' demand for our services.  A significant decline in the projects customers assign us under these service agreements could negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.  In addition, most of our contracts are cancelable on short or no advance notice, ranging from immediate cancellation to cancellation upon 180 days notice, even if we are not in default under the contract.  Many of our contracts, including our service agreements, are periodically open to public bid.  We may not be the successful bidder on existing contracts that are re-bid.  For our services that are provided on a non-recurring, project-by-project basis, we could experience a reduction in revenue, profitability and liquidity if our customers cancel a significant number of contracts, or if we fail to win a significant number of existing contracts upon re-bid, or if we complete the required work under a significant number of our non-recurring projects and cannot replace them with similar projects.  Additionally, from time to time, we enter into contracts that contain financing or other conditions that must be satisfied before we can begin work.  Certain of these contracts may not result in revenue or profits if our customers are unable to obtain financing or to satisfy other conditions associated with such projects.. Our business is seasonal and is affected by the spending patterns of our customers as well as weather conditions, which exposes us to variations in quarterly results.. Some of our customers reduce their expenditures and work order requests towards the end of the calendar year.  In addition, adverse weather conditions, particularly during the winter season, can affect our ability to perform outdoor services in certain regions of North America.  As a result, we generally experience reduced revenue in the first quarter of each calendar year.  Natural catastrophes such as hurricanes or other severe weather could have an effect on demand for our services, or could affect our ability to perform outdoor services or utilize equipment and crews stationed in affected regions, as well as on the economy overall, which could negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.. 14. Our financial results are based, in part, upon estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results.  In addition, changes in accounting principles may cause unexpected fluctuations in our reported financial information.. In preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP, management makes a number of estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements.  These estimates and assumptions must be made because certain information used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements is either dependent on future events or cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available.  In some cases, these estimates are particularly uncertain and we must exercise significant judgment.  Key estimates include: the recognition of revenue and project profit or loss, which we define as project revenue, less project costs of revenue, including project-related depreciation, in particular, on contracts accounted for under the percentage-of-completion method, for which the recorded amounts require estimates of costs to complete and the amount of probable contract price adjustments; allowances for doubtful accounts; fair value estimates, including those related to business acquisitions, valuations of goodwill and intangible assets, acquisition-related contingent consideration and equity investments; asset lives used in computing depreciation and amortization; fair values of financial instruments; self-insurance liabilities; other accruals and allowances; income taxes; and the estimated effects of litigation and other contingencies.  Actual results could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.. In addition, accounting rules and regulations are subject to review and interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the \"FASB\"), the SEC and various other governing bodies.  A change in U.S. GAAP could have a significant effect on our reported financial results.  Additionally, the adoption of new or revised accounting principles could require that we make significant changes to our systems, processes and controls.  We cannot predict the effect of future changes to accounting principles, which could have a significant effect on our reported financial results and/or our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.  See Note 1 - Business, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated by reference, for information regarding new accounting pronouncements.. Acquisitions involve risks that could negatively affect our operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. We have made, and in the future may continue to make, strategic acquisitions and investments.  However, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition or strategic investment opportunities, or may be unable to obtain the required consent of our lenders and, therefore, may not be able to complete such acquisitions or strategic investments.  We may pay for acquisitions or strategic investments with our common stock or with debt instruments, including convertible debt securities, which could dilute the ownership interests of our common shareholders, or we may decide to pursue acquisitions with which our investors may not agree.  In connection with most of our acquisitions, we have agreed to substantial earn-out arrangements.  To the extent we defer the payment of the purchase price for an acquisition through a cash earn-out arrangement, it will reduce our cash flows in subsequent periods.  In addition, acquisitions may expose us to operational challenges and risks, including:. • the ability to profitably manage acquired businesses or successfully integrate the acquired business' operations, financial reporting and accounting control systems into our business;. • the expense of integrating acquired businesses;. • increased indebtedness and contingent earn-out obligations;. • the ability to fund cash flow shortages that may occur if anticipated revenue is not realized or is delayed, whether by general economic or market conditions, or unforeseen internal difficulties;. • the availability of funding sufficient to meet increased capital needs;. • diversion of management's attention; and. • the ability to retain or hire qualified personnel required for expanded operations.. In connection with our acquisitions, we generally require that key management and former principals of the businesses we acquire enter into non-competition agreements in our favor.  Enforceability of these non-competition agreements varies from state to state, and state courts will generally examine all of the facts and circumstances at the time a party seeks to enforce a non-competition agreement; consequently, we cannot predict with certainty whether, if challenged, a court will enforce any particular non-competition agreement.  If one or more former principals or members of key management of the businesses we acquire terminate their employment with us and the courts refuse to enforce the non-competition agreement entered into by such person or persons, we might be subject to increased competition, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. In addition, acquired companies may have liabilities that we failed, or were unable, to discover in the course of performing due diligence investigations.  We cannot assure you that the indemnifications granted to us by sellers of acquired companies will be sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset the possible liabilities associated with businesses or properties we assume upon consummation of an acquisition.  We may learn additional information about our acquired businesses that could materially adversely affect us, such as unknown or contingent liabilities, unprofitable projects and liabilities related to compliance with applicable laws.  Any such liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business.  Failure to successfully manage the operational challenges and risks associated with, or resulting from, our acquisitions could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.  Borrowings or issuances of debt associated with these acquisitions could also result in higher levels of indebtedness, which could negatively affect our ability to service our debt within the scheduled repayment terms.. We have incurred goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges, and in the future could incur additional impairment charges, which could harm our profitability.. We have significant amounts of long-lived assets, goodwill and intangible assets.  When we acquire a business, we record goodwill equal to the excess of the amount we pay for the business, including anticipated future liabilities, over the fair value of the acquired net assets of that business.  We periodically review the carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets to determine whether such carrying values exceed their fair market values.  Declines in the profitability of individual reporting units, due to economic or market conditions or otherwise, as well as adverse changes in financial,. 15. competitive and other conditions, or other adverse changes in the key valuation assumptions contributing to the fair value of our reporting units could adversely affect the values of the related reporting units, resulting in an impairment of the recorded balances of goodwill or intangible assets.  See Note 1 - Business, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated by reference, for additional details.  Changes in economic and capital market conditions, as well as the operating performance of our reporting units, could result in future impairment charges, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. In the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to lawsuits, indemnity or other claims, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows.. From time to time, we are subject to various claims, lawsuits and other legal proceedings brought or threatened against us in the ordinary course of our business.  These actions and proceedings may seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, workers' compensation, employment discrimination and other employment-related damages, breach of contract, property damage, environmental liabilities, multiemployer pension plan withdrawal liabilities, liquidated damages, consequential damages, punitive damages and civil penalties or other losses, or injunctive or declaratory relief.  We may also be subject to litigation involving allegations of violations of the Fair Labor Standards Act and state wage and hour laws or litigation related to the restatement of certain of our 2014 interim financial statements.  In addition, we generally indemnify our customers for claims related to the services we provide and actions we take under our contracts, and, in some instances, we may be allocated risk through our contract terms for actions by our joint venture partners, equity investees, customers or other third parties.. Claimants may seek large damage awards and defending claims can involve significant costs.  When appropriate, we establish reserves against these items that we believe to be adequate in light of current information, legal advice and professional indemnity insurance coverage, and we adjust such reserves from time to time according to developments.  See Note 14 - Commitments and Contingencies in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated by reference.  We could experience a reduction in our profitability and liquidity if our legal reserves are inadequate, our insurance coverage proves to be inadequate or becomes unavailable, or our self-insurance liabilities are higher than expected.  The outcome of litigation is difficult to assess or quantify, as plaintiffs may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts in these types of lawsuits or proceedings, and the magnitude of the potential loss may remain unknown for substantial periods of time.  Furthermore, because litigation is inherently uncertain, the ultimate resolution of any such claim, lawsuit or proceeding through settlement, mediation, or court judgment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  In addition, claims, lawsuits and proceedings may harm our reputation or divert management's attention from our business or divert resources away from operating our business, and cause us to incur significant expenses, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Many of our customers are highly regulated, and new regulations or changes in existing regulations could adversely affect their demand for our services and/or the profitability of those services.. Most of our communications customers are regulated by the FCC, and our energy customers are regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (\"FERC\").  In addition, our utility customers are regulated by state public utility commissions.  These agencies could change the way in which they interpret the application of current regulations and/or may impose additional regulations.  Interpretative changes or new regulations having an adverse effect on our customers and the profitability of the services they provide could reduce demand for our services, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.. Additionally, various federal, state, local, or foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives have been undertaken, which could result in additional requirements or restrictions being imposed on drilling and completion operations. These regulations, and any future restrictions that might be adopted, could lead to operational delays and increased operating costs for our customers in the oil and gas industry, which could result in reduced capital spending and delays or cancellations of future oil and gas infrastructure projects that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.. Our failure to comply with the regulations of OSHA, the U.S. DOT and other state and local agencies that oversee transportation and safety compliance could reduce our revenue, profitability and liquidity.. The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, as amended, establishes certain employer responsibilities, including maintenance of a workplace free of recognized hazards likely to cause death or serious injury, compliance with standards promulgated by OSHA and various recordkeeping, disclosure and procedural requirements.  Various standards, including standards for notices of hazards and safety in excavation and demolition work, may apply to our operations.  We have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in the ordinary course of business in complying with OSHA and other state and local laws and regulations, and could incur penalties and fines in the future, including, in extreme cases, criminal sanctions.. While we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial resources in occupational health and safety programs, our industry involves a high degree of operational risk, and there can be no assurance that we will avoid significant liability.  Although we have taken what we believe to be appropriate precautions, we have had employee injuries and fatalities in the past, and may suffer additional injuries or fatalities in the future.  Serious accidents of this nature may subject us to substantial penalties, civil litigation or criminal prosecution.  Personal injury claims for damages, including for bodily injury or loss of life, could result in substantial costs and liabilities, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  In addition, if our safety record were to deteriorate, or if we suffered substantial penalties or criminal prosecution for violation of health and safety regulations, customers could cancel existing contracts and not award future business to us, which could materially adversely affect our liquidity, cash flows and results of operations.  We have, from time to time, received notice from the DOT that our motor carrier operations will be monitored and that the failure to improve our safety performance could result in suspension or revocation of vehicle registration privileges.  If we were not able to successfully resolve such issues, our ability to service our customers could be damaged, which could lead to a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.. Our failure to comply with environmental laws could result in significant liabilities or harm our reputation.. 16. Some of the work we perform is in underground environments.  If the field location maps supplied to us are not accurate, or if objects are present in the soil that are not indicated on the field location maps, our underground work could strike objects in the soil containing pollutants and result in a rupture and discharge of pollutants.  In such a case, we could incur significant costs, including clean-up costs, and we may be liable for fines and damages.  Additionally, we sometimes perform directional drilling operations below certain environmentally sensitive terrains and water bodies.  Due to the inconsistent nature of terrain and water bodies, it is possible that such directional drilling could cause a surface fracture releasing subsurface materials or drilling fluid.  These releases alone or, in combination with releases that may contain contaminants in excess of amounts permitted by law, could potentially expose us to remediation costs, damages and fines.  We also own and lease several facilities at which we store our equipment.  Some of these facilities contain fuel storage tanks which may be above or below ground.  If these tanks were to leak, we could be responsible for the cost of remediation as well as potential fines.  In addition, new environmental laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or leaks, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur significant costs or result in new or increased liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.. In addition, concerns about climate change could result in potential new regulations, regulatory actions or requirements to fund energy efficiency activities, any of which could negatively affect our customers and decrease demand for their services, or result in increased costs associated with our operations.  For example, if new regulations are adopted regulating greenhouse gas emissions from sources such as cars and trucks, we could experience a significant increase in environmental compliance costs in light of our large fleet and the amount of construction machinery we own.  In addition, if our operations are perceived to result in high greenhouse gas emissions or to otherwise pose environmental risks, our reputation could suffer.. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified managers and skilled employees, we will be unable to operate efficiently, which could reduce our revenue, profitability and liquidity.. Our business is labor intensive, and some of our operations experience a high rate of employee turnover.  In addition, given the nature of the highly specialized work we perform, many of our employees are trained in, and possess, specialized technical skills that are necessary to operate our business and maintain productivity and profitability.  At times of low unemployment in the areas we serve, it can be difficult for us to find qualified and affordable personnel.  We may be unable to hire and retain a sufficiently skilled labor force necessary to support our operating requirements and growth strategy.  Our labor and training expenses may increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of skilled personnel.  We may not be able to pass these expenses on to our customers, which could adversely affect our profitability.  Additionally, our business is managed by a number of key executive and operational officers and is dependent upon retaining and recruiting qualified management.  Labor shortages, increased labor or training costs, or the loss of key personnel could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.. Our subcontractors may fail to satisfy their obligations to us or other parties, or we may be unable to maintain these relationships, either of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.. We depend on subcontractors to perform work on some of our projects.  There is a risk that we may have disputes with subcontractors arising from, among other things, the quality and timeliness of the work they perform, customer concerns about our subcontractors, or our failure to extend existing work orders or issue new work orders under a subcontracting arrangement.  If any of our subcontractors fail to perform the agreed-upon services on a timely basis and/or deliver the agreed-upon supplies, then our ability to fulfill our obligations as a prime contractor could be jeopardized.  In addition, the absence of qualified subcontractors with whom we have satisfactory relationships could adversely affect our ability to perform under some of our contracts, or the quality of the services we provide.  Additionally, in some cases, we pay our subcontractors before our customers pay us for the related services.  We could experience a material decrease in profitability and liquidity if we choose, or are required, to pay our subcontractors for work performed for customers that fail to pay us, or delay paying us, for the related work.  Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.. We also rely on suppliers to obtain the necessary materials for certain projects, and on equipment manufacturers and lessors to provide us with the equipment we require to conduct our operations.  Although we are not dependent on any single supplier or equipment manufacturer or lessor, any substantial limitation on the availability of required suppliers or equipment could negatively affect our operations.  Market and economic conditions could contribute to a lack of available suppliers or equipment.  If we cannot acquire sufficient materials or equipment, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.. Our participation in strategic arrangements, including joint ventures and equity investments, exposes us to numerous risks.. We have certain strategic arrangements, including joint ventures and equity investments, which provide us the opportunity to combine our skills and resources with those of others to allow for the performance of particular projects for which we do not control the day-to-day operations.  The success of these arrangements depends, in large part, on whether our partners satisfy their contractual and performance obligations.  In certain of these arrangements, we and our partners are jointly and severally liable for liabilities and obligations of the entity or joint venture.  If one of our partners fails to perform or is financially unable to bear its portion of required capital contributions or other obligations, including liabilities stemming from claims or lawsuits, we could be required to make additional investments, provide additional services or pay more than our proportionate share of a liability to make up for our partner's shortfall.  Further, if we are unable to adequately address our partner's performance issues, the projects could be terminated, which could result in legal liability to us, harm our reputation and could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.  In the past, we have incurred losses from our equity investments, and in the future, we could incur additional losses.  We also have, and in the future could be subject to, a write-down of a portion or all of the net investment related to such arrangements.  Market or other conditions, such as the inability of an entity in which we have invested to complete certain transactions, could subject us to a loss of some or all of the value of our investment.  See Note 14 - Commitments and Contingencies and Note 4 - Fair Value of Financial Instruments in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements, which are incorporated by reference, for additional information.. We rely on information, communications and data systems in our operations.  Systems and information technology interruptions and/or breaches in our data security could adversely affect our ability to operate and our operating results or could result in harm to our reputation.. We are heavily reliant on computer, information and communications technology and related systems in order to operate.  From time to time, we experience system interruptions and delays.  Our operations could be interrupted or delayed, or our data security could be breached, if we are unable. 17. to add software and hardware, effectively maintain and upgrade our systems and network infrastructure and/or take other steps to improve the efficiency of and protect our systems.  In addition, our computer and communications systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by natural disasters, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, acts of war or terrorism, physical or electronic break-ins and similar events or disruptions, including breaches by computer hackers and cyber-terrorists.  Any of these or other events could cause system interruptions, delays and/or loss of critical data including private data, could delay or prevent operations, including the processing of transactions and reporting of financial results, processing inefficiency, downtime, or could result in the unintentional disclosure of customer or our information, which could adversely affect our operating results, harm our reputation and result in significant costs, fines or litigation.  Similar risks could affect our customers and vendors, indirectly affecting us.  While management has taken steps to address these concerns by implementing network security and internal control measures, there can be no assurance that a system failure or loss or data security breach will not materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. Our business is subject to physical hazards that could result in substantial liabilities and weaken our financial condition.. Construction projects undertaken by us expose our employees to electrical lines, pipelines carrying potentially explosive or toxic materials, heavy equipment, mechanical failures, transportation accidents, adverse weather conditions and the risk of damage to equipment and property.  These hazards can cause personal injuries and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and other consequential damages and could lead to suspension of operations and large damage claims which could, in some cases, substantially exceed the amount we charge for the associated services.  In addition, if serious accidents or fatalities occur, or if our safety records were to deteriorate, we may be restricted from bidding on certain work and obtaining new contracts and certain existing contracts could be terminated.  Our safety processes and procedures are monitored by various agencies and ratings bureaus.  The occurrence of accidents in our business could result in significant liabilities, employee turnover, increase the costs of our projects, or harm our ability to perform under our contracts or enter into new customer contracts, all of which could materially adversely affect our revenue, profitability and liquidity.. Our operations may affect the environment or cause exposure to hazardous substances, and our properties may have environmental contamination, which could result in material liabilities.. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including those dealing with the handling and disposal of waste products, polychlorinated biphenyls (\"PCBs\"), fuel storage and air quality.  Certain of our current and historical construction operations have used hazardous materials and, to the extent that such materials are not properly stored, contained or recycled, they could become hazardous waste.  Additionally, some of our contracts require that we assume the environmental risk of site conditions and require that we indemnify our customers for any damages, including environmental damages, incurred in connection with our projects.  We may be subject to claims under various environmental laws and regulations, federal and state statutes and/or common law doctrines for toxic torts and other damages, as well as for natural resource damages and the investigation and clean-up of soil, surface water, groundwater, and other media under laws such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (\"CERCLA\").  Such claims may arise, for example, out of current or former conditions at project sites, current or former properties owned or leased by us, or contaminated sites that have always been owned or operated by third parties.  Liability may be imposed without regard to fault and may be strict and joint and several, such that we may be held responsible for more than our share of any contamination or other damages, or even for the entire share, and we may be unable to obtain reimbursement from the parties that caused the contamination.. Our existing operations in international markets, or expanding into additional international markets, may not be successful and could expose us to risks, including failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and/or similar anti-bribery laws, which could harm our business and prospects.. We derive a portion of our revenue from international markets, and we may further expand the volume of international services we provide, as well as the foreign geographic territories in which we operate.  See Note 13 - Segments and Related Information in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated by reference, for foreign revenue information.  Our international operations are presently conducted primarily in Canada and Mexico, but we have performed work in various other foreign countries, and revenue derived from, or the number of countries in which we operate, could expand over the next few years.  Economic conditions, including those resulting from wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts, or volatility in the global markets may adversely affect our international customers, their demand for our services and/or their ability to pay for our services.  In addition, there are numerous risks inherent in conducting our business internationally, including, but not limited to, potential instability in international markets, changes in regulatory requirements applicable to international operations, foreign currency fluctuations, exchange controls and other limits on our ability to repatriate and reinvest earnings, political, economic and social conditions in foreign countries and complex U.S. and foreign laws and treaties, including taxation laws and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the \"FCPA\").  These risks could restrict our ability to provide services to international customers or to operate our international business profitably, and our overall business and results of operations could be negatively affected by our foreign activities.. The FCPA and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions prohibit U.S.-based companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business.  We pursue opportunities in certain parts of the world that experience corruption to some degree, and, in certain circumstances, compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices.  Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws.  Further, we require our subcontractors, agents and others who work for us or on our behalf to comply with the FCPA and other anti-bribery laws.  There is no assurance that the policies and procedures we have in place to ensure that our employees and our agents comply with the FCPA and other anti-bribery laws will protect us against liability under the FCPA or other laws for actions taken by our agents, employees and intermediaries.  If we are found to be liable for FCPA violations (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could incur severe criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations or cash flows.  In addition, detecting, investigating and resolving actual or alleged FCPA violations is expensive and can consume significant time and attention of our senior management.. We are subject to foreign exchange and currency risks that could adversely affect our operations, and our ability to reinvest earnings from operations, as well as to mitigate our foreign exchange risk through hedging transactions, may be limited.. 18. We generally attempt to denominate our contracts in U.S. dollars or in the currencies of our costs.  In the past, however, we have entered, and in the future, we may enter, into new contracts in foreign locations that are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, subjecting us to currency risk exposure, particularly when the contract revenue is denominated in a currency different from the contract costs.  Certain portions of our consolidated revenue and operating expenses are in foreign currencies.  As a result, we are subject to foreign currency risks, including risks resulting from changes in foreign exchange rates and limitations on our ability to reinvest earnings from operations in one country to fund the financing requirements of our operations in other countries.. The renewable energy industry is reliant on tax incentives, the availability of which may be uncertain and could adversely affect demand for our services.. Because the unsubsidized cost of electric power from renewable resources such as wind and solar often exceeds that of fossil fuel and nuclear generating facilities, the renewable energy industry is reliant on tax incentives.  These tax incentives effectively reduce the market price at which renewable energy can be sold, which spurs investment in renewable energy facilities.  These tax incentives typically have a finite duration, which creates uncertainty for developers of renewable energy facilities and may adversely affect investment in them and, accordingly, demand for our services.  As a result, we cannot predict the effect that tax incentive legislation and/or the expiration or extension of these incentives, including production tax credits, investment tax credits, or accelerated or bonus depreciation provisions, will have on the demand for our services.  Whether the investment tax credit will be effective in the future for renewable energy projects is uncertain, as are any future efforts to extend or renew the existing production tax and investment tax credits.  Furthermore, the provisions regarding any extensions or renewals may not be as favorable as those that currently exist.  We cannot assure you that any extensions or renewals of the existing production tax and/or the investment tax credits would be enacted prior to their expiration or, if allowed to expire, that any extensions or renewals enacted thereafter would be enacted with retroactive effect.  We also cannot assure you that the tax laws providing for accelerated and bonus depreciation with respect to renewable energy generation assets will not be modified, amended or repealed in the future.  If the investment tax credit is not effective or if the federal production tax credit is not extended or renewed, or is extended or renewed at a lower rate, these generating facilities may be less profitable to build and operate and the ability of our customers to obtain financing for these projects may be impaired or eliminated, which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and results of operations.. Changes to renewable portfolio standards and decreased demand for renewable energy projects could negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.. A portion of our business provides construction and/or installation services to owners and operators of wind power, solar power and other renewable energy facilities.  The development of wind, solar and other renewable energy facilities is highly dependent upon federal tax credits, the existence of renewable portfolio standards and other tax or state incentives.  Renewable portfolio standards are state specific statutory provisions requiring that electric utilities generate a certain amount of electricity from renewable energy sources or devote a certain portion of operational/development capacity to renewable energy sources.  Additionally, certified renewable energy generators earn certificates for every megawatt hour of electricity they produce and can sell these along with their electricity to their customers.  In the past, these standards have spurred growth in the renewable energy industry and demand for renewable energy infrastructure construction services.  However, revenue from renewable energy projects in the past have been, and in the future are expected to continue to be, highly volatile.  Renewable portfolio standards or goals have been adopted in many states.  Elimination of, or changes to, existing renewable portfolio standards or similar environmental policies could negatively affect demand for our services.  Additionally, renewable energy is generally more expensive to produce and may require additional power generation sources as backup.  The locations of renewable energy projects are often remote and are not viable unless connection to the grid to transport the power to demand centers is economically feasible.  Furthermore, funding for renewable energy initiatives may not be available, particularly during periods of tight credit markets.  These factors could result in fewer renewable energy projects than anticipated or a delay in the timing of construction of these projects and the related infrastructure, which would negatively affect demand for our services.. Certain of our businesses have employees who are represented by unions or are subject to collective bargaining agreements.  The use of a unionized workforce and any related obligations could adversely affect our operations.. Certain of our employees are represented by labor unions and collective bargaining agreements.  Although all such collective bargaining agreements prohibit strikes and work stoppages, we cannot be certain that strikes or work stoppages will not occur despite the terms of these agreements.  Strikes or work stoppages could adversely affect our relationships with our customers and cause us to lose business.  Additionally, as current agreements expire, the labor unions may not be able to negotiate extensions or replacements on terms favorable to their members, or at all, or avoid strikes, lockouts or other labor actions that could affect their members.  Therefore, it cannot be assured that new agreements will be reached with employee labor unions as existing contracts expire, or on desirable terms.  Any action against us relating to the union workforce we employ could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cash flows and results of operations.. Our participation in multiemployer pension plans may subject us to liabilities that could materially and adversely affect our liquidity, cash flows and results of operations.. Substantially all of our union and collective bargaining agreements require us to participate with other companies in multiemployer pension plans.  To the extent that U.S.-registered plans are underfunded defined benefit plans, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended by the Multiemployer Pension Plan Amendments Act of 1980 (collectively, \"ERISA\"), which governs U.S.-registered multiemployer pension plans, subjects employers to substantial liabilities in the event of the employer's complete or partial withdrawal from, or upon termination of, such plans.  Under current law pertaining to employers that are contributors to U.S.-registered multiemployer defined benefit plans, a plan's termination, an employer's voluntary withdrawal from, or the mass withdrawal of contributing employers from, an underfunded multiemployer defined benefit plan requires participating employers to make payments to the plan for their proportionate share of the multiemployer plan's unfunded vested liabilities.  These liabilities include an allocable share of the unfunded vested benefits of the plan for all plan participants, not only for benefits payable to participants of the contributing employer.  As a result, participating employers may bear a higher proportion of liability for unfunded vested benefits if the other participating employers cease to contribute to, or withdraw from, the plan.  The allocable portion of liability to participating employers could be more disproportionate if employers that have withdrawn from the plan are insolvent, or if they otherwise fail to pay their proportionate share of the withdrawal liability.  We currently contribute, and in the past have contributed to, plans that are underfunded, and, therefore, could have potential liability associated. 19. with a voluntary or involuntary withdrawal from, or termination of, these plans.  In addition, the Pension Protection Act of 2006, as amended (the \"PPA\"), requires pension plans that are underfunded to improve their funding ratios within prescribed intervals based on their level of underfunding, under which benefit reductions may apply and/or participating employers could be required to make additional contributions.  In addition, if a multiemployer defined benefit plan fails to satisfy certain minimum funding requirements, the Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") may impose on the employers contributing to such a plan a non-deductible excise tax of 5% of the amount of the accumulated funding deficiency.. Based upon the information available to us from plan administrators as of December 31, 2017, several of the multiemployer pension plans in which we participate are underfunded and, as a result, we could be required to increase our contributions, including in the form of a surcharge on future benefit contributions.  The amount of additional funds we may be obligated to contribute in the future cannot be estimated, as these amounts are based on future levels of work of the union employees covered by these plans, investment returns and the level of underfunding of such plans.. In November 2014, we, along with other members of the Pipe Line Contractors Association (the \"PLCA\"), voluntarily terminated our participation in several multiemployer pension plans.  Additionally, we, along with other members of the PLCA, voluntarily withdrew from the Central States Southeast and Southwest Areas Pension Fund (\"Central States\") in 2011, for which a withdrawal liability was assessed and paid.  We recognized an immaterial amount of expense during the year ended December 31, 2017 in connection with the expected final settlement of this matter.  We do not have plans to withdraw from, and are not aware of circumstances that would reasonably lead to material claims against us in connection with our participation in any other plans.  However, there can be no assurance that we will not be assessed liabilities in the future.  Withdrawal liabilities, requirements to pay increased contributions, and/or excise taxes in connection with any of the multiemployer pension plans in which we participate could negatively affect our cash flows, liquidity and results of operations.. We are self-insured against many potential liabilities.. We are effectively self-insured for substantially all claims because most claims against us do not exceed the deductibles under our insurance policies.  We actuarially determine any liabilities for unpaid claims and associated expenses, including losses incurred but not reported, and reflect the present value of those liabilities in our balance sheet as other current and other long-term liabilities, as appropriate.  The determination of such claims and expenses and the appropriateness of the related liability is reviewed and updated quarterly.  However, insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to many factors, the effects of which are often unknown or difficult to estimate, including the severity of an injury, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties' liability, the number of incidents not reported and the effectiveness of our safety program.  If our insurance costs exceed our estimates of insurance liabilities, or if our insurance claims increase, we could experience a decline in profitability and liquidity.. We may have additional tax liabilities associated with our domestic and international operations.. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions.  Management must exercise significant judgment in determining our provision for income taxes due to lack of clear and concise tax laws and regulations in certain jurisdictions.  Tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations of laws are issued or applied, and such changes could materially affect our tax provisions.  The U.S. recently enacted tax reform legislation, referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"2017 Tax Act\"), and while this legislation is expected to reduce our effective tax rate in 2018 and future years, certain provisions of this legislation may adversely affect us.  In addition, the 2017 Tax Act significantly changes how the U.S. taxes corporations for years after 2017, and requires complex computations to be performed that were not previously required under U.S. tax law.  The provisions of the 2017 Tax Act will require significant judgments and estimates to be made, and our interpretations of these provisions could differ from those of the U.S. Treasury Department or the IRS, which has yet to promulgate most regulations implementing the 2017 Tax Act.  As we complete our analysis of the 2017 Tax Act and collect and prepare the necessary data, we may make adjustments to the provisional amounts that have been recorded, which could materially affect our provision for income taxes in the period any such adjustment is made.  In addition, we are audited by various U.S. and foreign tax authorities, and in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination may be uncertain.  Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of income tax examinations could be materially different from our expectations and the estimates that are reflected in our consolidated financial statements, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.. We have incurred restructuring charges, and in the future may incur additional restructuring charges, which could reduce our profitability.. From time to time, we review our operations in an effort to improve profitability.  We have incurred, and in the future could continue to incur, charges as a result of eliminating service offerings that no longer fit into our business plan, charges associated with the integration of acquired businesses, reducing or eliminating services or operations that do not produce adequate revenue or margins, or reducing costs of reporting units that need margin improvements.  Any charges related to restructuring or impairment would be reflected as operating expenses and could materially reduce our profitability and liquidity.. Warranty claims resulting from our services could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We generally warrant the work we perform for a one to two year period following substantial completion of a project, subject to further extensions of the warranty period following repairs or replacements.  Historically, warranty claims have not been material, but such claims could potentially increase.  If warranty claims occur, we could be required to repair or replace warrantied items at our cost, or, if our customers elect to repair or replace the warrantied item using the services of another provider, we could be required to pay for the cost of the repair or replacement.  Additionally, while we generally require that the materials provided to us by suppliers have warranties consistent with those we provide to our customers, if any of these suppliers default on their warranty obligations to us, we may incur costs to repair or replace the defective materials for which we are not reimbursed.  The costs associated with such warranties, including any warranty-related legal proceedings, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.. Our credit facility and senior notes impose restrictions on us that may prevent us from engaging in transactions that might benefit us, including responding to changing business and economic conditions or securing additional financing, if needed.. The terms of our indebtedness contain customary events of default and covenants that prohibit us from taking certain actions without satisfying certain financial tests or obtaining the consent of the lenders.  The prohibited actions include, among other things:. 20. • making investments and acquisitions in excess of specified amounts;. • incurring additional indebtedness in excess of specified amounts;. • buying back shares or paying dividends in excess of specified amounts;. • creating certain liens against our assets;. • prepaying subordinated indebtedness;. • engaging in certain mergers or combinations;. • failing to satisfy certain financial tests; and. • engaging in transactions that would result in a \"change of control,\" as defined in the credit facility and the indentures governing our senior notes.. Our senior secured credit facility requires that we comply with a consolidated leverage ratio and a consolidated interest coverage ratio.  Should we be unable to comply with the terms and covenants of our credit facility, we would be required to obtain consents from our bank group, further modify our credit facility or secure another source of financing to continue to operate our business, none of which may be available to us on reasonable terms or at all.  A default could also result in the acceleration of our obligations under the credit facility or under the indentures relating to our senior notes.  In addition, these covenants may prevent us from engaging in transactions that benefit us, including responding to changing business and economic conditions or securing additional financing, if needed.  Our business is capital intensive and to the extent we need additional financing, we may not be able to obtain such financing at all or on favorable terms, which could materially decrease our profitability, cash flows and liquidity.. We may be unable to obtain sufficient bonding capacity to support certain service offerings, and the need for performance and surety bonds could reduce availability under our credit facility.. Some of our contracts require performance and payment bonds.  If we are not able to renew or obtain a sufficient level of bonding capacity in the future, we may be precluded from being able to bid for certain contracts or successfully contract with certain customers.  In addition, even if we are able to successfully renew or obtain performance or payment bonds, we may be required to post letters of credit in connection with the bonds, which would reduce availability under our credit facility.  Furthermore, under standard terms in the surety market, sureties issue bonds on a project-by-project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the posting of additional collateral as a condition to issuing or renewing any bonds.  If we were to experience an interruption or reduction in the availability of bonding capacity as a result of these or any other reasons, we may be unable to compete for or work on projects that require bonding.. A failure of our internal control over financial reporting could materially affect our business.. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting.  An internal control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met.  Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs.  Because of the inherent limitations in all internal control systems, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud, and could expose us to litigation, harm our reputation, and/or adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Increases in the costs of fuel could reduce our operating margins.. The price of fuel required to run our vehicles and equipment is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by oil and gas producers, geopolitical developments, war and unrest in oil producing countries, regional production patterns and environmental concerns.  Any increase in fuel costs could materially reduce our profitability and liquidity because most of our contracts do not allow us to adjust our pricing for such expenses.. Risks Related to Our Company and Our Common Stock. There may be future sales of our common stock or other dilution of our equity that could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.  In connection with certain completed acquisitions, we have issued shares of our common stock, and we additionally have the option to issue shares of our common stock instead of cash as consideration for future earn-out obligations.  We may agree to issue additional shares in connection with other future acquisition or financing transactions, which, if issued, would dilute your share ownership and could lead to volatility in our common stock price.. We grow our business organically as well as through acquisition.  One method of acquiring companies or otherwise funding our corporate activities is through the issuance of equity securities.  In connection with certain acquisitions, we have the option to issue shares of our common stock instead of paying cash for the related earn-out obligations.  Such issuances could have the effect of diluting our earnings per share as well as our existing shareholders' individual ownership percentages and could lead to volatility in our common stock price.  Our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation provide that we may issue up to a total 145,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 82,802,773 shares were outstanding as of December 31, 2017.. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock.  The issuance of additional shares of our common stock in connection with future acquisitions, convertible securities or other issuances of our common stock, including restricted stock awards, restricted stock units and/or options, or otherwise, will dilute the ownership interest of our common shareholders.  Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other equity-related securities in the public market could depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of. 21. additional equity or equity-linked securities.  We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common stock or other equity-related securities would have on the market price of our common stock.. We have a significant amount of debt.  Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations.. We have a significant amount of debt and substantial debt service requirements. This level of debt could have significant consequences on our future operations, including:. • making it more difficult for us to meet our payment and other obligations;. • our failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our debt agreements, which could trigger events of default that could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable;. • reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or strategic investments and other general corporate requirements, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes;. • subjecting us to increased interest expense related to our indebtedness with variable interest rates, including borrowings under our credit facility;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to changes in our business, the industry in which we operate and the general economy;. • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged; and. • preventing us from paying dividends.. Any of the above-listed factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations.  Our ability to meet our payment and other obligations under our debt instruments depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow in the future.  This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control.  We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our payment obligations and to fund other liquidity needs.  If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital, and some of these activities may be on terms that are unfavorable or highly dilutive.  Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time.  If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may not be able to meet our payment obligations.. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile.. The market price of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange has been volatile in recent years.  We may continue to experience significant volatility in the market price of our common stock.  Numerous factors could have a significant effect on the price of our common stock, including:. • announcements of fluctuations in our operating results or the operating results of one of our competitors;. • market conditions in our customers' industries;. • capital spending plans of our significant customers;. • global and domestic energy prices;. • announcements by us or one of our competitors of new or terminated customers or new, amended or terminated contracts;. • announcements of acquisitions by us or one of our competitors;. • changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by securities analysts;. • future repurchases of our common stock; and. • future sales of our common stock or other securities, including any shares issued in connection with business acquisitions or earn-out obligations for any past or future acquisitions.. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations in recent years, which have sometimes been unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance.  Volatility in the market price of our common stock could cause shareholders to lose some or all of their investment in our common stock.. A small number of our existing shareholders have the ability to influence major corporate decisions.. Jorge Mas, our Chairman, and José R. Mas, our Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned approximately 20% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of December 31, 2017.  Accordingly, they are in a position to influence:. • the vote of most matters submitted to our shareholders, including any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets;. • the nomination of individuals to our Board of Directors; and. • a change in our control.. 22. These factors may discourage, delay or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider in their best interests or that might result in shareholders receiving a premium for their common stock.. Our articles of incorporation and certain provisions of Florida law contain anti-takeover provisions that may make it more difficult to effect a change in our control.. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation, by-laws and the Florida Business Corporation Act could delay or prevent an acquisition or change in control and the replacement of our incumbent directors and management, even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders by providing them with the opportunity to sell their shares possibly at a premium over the then market price of our common stock.  For example, our Board of Directors is divided into three classes.  At any annual meeting of our shareholders, our shareholders only have the right to appoint approximately one-third of the directors on our Board of Directors.  Consequently, it will take at least two annual shareholder meetings to effect a change in control of our Board of Directors, which may discourage hostile takeover bids.  In addition, our articles of incorporation authorize our Board of Directors, without further shareholder approval, to issue preferred stock.  The issuance of preferred stock could also dilute the voting power of holders of our common stock, including the granting of voting control to others, which could delay or prevent an acquisition or change in control."
