[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information. This annual report on Form 10-K contains \"forward-looking statements\" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The use of words such as \"anticipates,\" \"estimates,\" \"expects,\" \"plans\" and \"believes,\" among others, generally identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, among others, statements relating to: Match Group's future financial performance, Match Group's business prospects and strategy, anticipated trends and prospects in the industries in which Match Group's businesses operate and other similar matters. These forward-looking statements are based on Match Group management's expectations and assumptions about future events as of the date of this annual report, which are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict.. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements for a variety of reasons, including, among others, the risk factors set forth below. Other unknown or unpredictable factors that could also adversely affect Match Group's business, financial condition and results of operations may arise from time to time. In light of these risks and uncertainties, the forward-looking statements discussed in this annual report may not prove to be accurate. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which only reflect the views of Match Group's management as of the date of this annual report. Match Group does not undertake to update these forward-looking statements.. Risks relating to our business. The limited operating history of our newer dating brands and products makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects.. We seek to tailor each of our dating brands and products to meet the preferences of specific communities of users.  Building a given brand or product is generally an iterative process that occurs over a meaningful period of time and involves considerable resources and expenditures.  Although certain of our newer brands and products have experienced significant growth over relatively short periods of time, the historical growth rates of these brands and products may not be an indication of future growth rates for our newer brands and products generally.  We have encountered, and may continue to encounter, risks and difficulties as we build our newer brands and products.  The failure to successfully address these risks and difficulties could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The dating industry is competitive, with low switching costs and a consistent stream of new products and entrants, and innovation by our competitors may disrupt our business.. The dating industry is competitive, with a consistent stream of new products and entrants.  Some of our competitors may enjoy better competitive positions in certain geographical regions or user demographics that we currently serve or may serve in the future.  These advantages could enable these competitors to offer products that are more appealing to users and potential users than our products or to respond more quickly and/or cost-effectively than us to new or changing opportunities.. In addition, within the dating industry generally, costs for consumers to switch between products are low, and consumers have a propensity to try new approaches to connecting with people.  As a result, new products, entrants and business models are likely to continue to emerge.  It is possible that a new product could gain rapid scale at the expense of existing brands through harnessing a new technology or distribution channel, creating a new approach to connecting people or some other means.  If we are not able to compete effectively against our current or future competitors and products that may emerge, the size and level of engagement of our user base may decrease, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Each of our dating products monetizes users at different rates.  If a meaningful migration of our user base from our higher monetizing dating products to our lower monetizing dating products were to occur, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We own, operate and manage a large and diverse portfolio of dating products.  Each dating product has its own mix of free and paid features designed to optimize the user experience and revenue generation from that product's community of users.  In general, the mix of features for the various dating products within our more established brands leads to higher monetization rates per user than the mix of features for the various dating. 10. Table of Contents. products within our newer brands.  If a significant portion of our user base were to migrate to our less profitable brands, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.  See \"Item 7 - Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - Management overview - Trends affecting our business.\". Our growth and profitability rely, in part, on our ability to attract and retain users through cost-effective marketing efforts.  Any failure in these efforts could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Attracting and retaining users for certain of our dating products involve considerable expenditures for online and offline marketing. Historically, we have had to increase our marketing expenditures over time in order to attract and retain users and sustain our growth.. Evolving consumer behavior can affect the availability of profitable marketing opportunities.  For example, as traditional television viewership declines and as consumers spend more time on mobile devices rather than desktop computers, the reach of many of our traditional advertising channels is contracting.  Similarly, as consumers communicate less via email and more via text messaging and other virtual means, the reach of email campaigns designed to attract new and repeat users (and retain current users) for our dating products is adversely impacted.  To continue to reach potential users and grow our businesses, we must identify and devote more of our overall marketing expenditures to newer advertising channels, such as mobile and online video platforms, as well as targeted campaigns in which we communicate directly with potential, former and current users via new virtual means.  Generally, the opportunities in and sophistication of newer advertising channels are relatively undeveloped and unproven, making it difficult to assess returns on investment associated with such advertising channels, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to appropriately manage and fine-tune our marketing efforts in response to these and other trends in the advertising industry.  Any failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Communicating with our users via email is critical to our success, and any erosion in our ability to communicate in this fashion that is not sufficiently replaced by other means could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Historically, one of our primary means of communicating with our users and keeping them engaged with our products has been via email communication.  Our ability to communicate via email enables us to keep our users updated on activity with respect to their profile, present or suggest new or interesting users from the community, invite users to offline events and present discount and free trial offers, among other things.  As consumer habits evolve in the era of web-enabled mobile devices and messaging/social networking apps, usage of email, particularly among our younger users, has declined.  In addition, deliverability and other restrictions imposed by third party email providers and/or applicable law could limit or prevent our ability to send emails to our users. A continued and significant erosion in our ability to communicate successfully with our users via email could have an adverse impact on user experience, levels of user engagement and the rate at which non-paying users become Subscribers.. While we continually work to find new means of communicating and connecting with our users (for example, through push notifications), there is no assurance that such alternative means of communication will be as effective as email has been.  Any failure to develop or take advantage of new means of communication or limitations on those means of communications imposed by laws, device manufacturers or other sources could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations.. We operate in various international markets, primarily in various jurisdictions within the European Union, and as result are exposed to foreign exchange risk for both the Euro and British Pound (\"GBP\").  During the fiscal years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, 45% and 39% of our total revenues, respectively, were international revenues.  We translate international revenues into U.S. dollar-denominated operating results and during periods of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our international revenues will be reduced when translated into U.S. dollars.  In addition, as foreign currency exchange rates fluctuate, the translation of our international revenues into U.S. dollar-denominated operating results affects the period-over-period comparability of such results.. We have exposure to foreign currency exchange risk related to transactions carried out in a currency other than the U.S. dollar, and investments in foreign subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the U.S. dollar.. 11. Table of Contents. Our exposure is primarily related to the Euro, and to a lesser extent, the GBP. Since the average Euro exchange rate strengthened against the U.S. dollar in 2017 by 2% compared to 2016, the translation of our Euro-denominated international results into U.S. dollars did not significantly reduce our revenue nor did it have a significant effect on the period-over-period comparability of our U.S dollar-denominated operating results for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 versus December 31, 2016.  However, for our GBP-denominated international results the significant decline in the GBP due to the United Kingdom's decision to leave the European Union (\"Brexit\") on June 23, 2016 generated significant foreign currency exchange gains during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016.  See \"Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis - Match Group, Inc.'s Principles of Financial Reporting - Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates on Revenue\" and \"Item 7A - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk - Foreign Currency Exchange Risk.\". Brexit may continue to cause disruptions to capital and currency markets worldwide, and the full impact of the Brexit decision, remains uncertain.  A process of negotiation will determine the future terms of the United Kingdom's relationship with the European Union.  During this period of negotiation, our operating results may be negatively affected by exchange rate and other market and economic volatility.. To the extent that the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to either the Euro, the GBP or both, the translation of our international revenues into U.S. dollars will reduce our U.S. dollar denominated operating results and will affect their period-over-period comparability.  For the impact of foreign exchange effects on our revenues in 2017, see ''Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-Principles of financial reporting.'' Historically, we have not hedged any foreign currency exposures. The continued growth and expansion of our international operations into new countries increases our exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations.  Significant foreign exchange rate fluctuations, in the case of one currency or collectively with other currencies, could adversely affect our future results of operations.. Distribution and use of our dating products depends, in significant part, on a variety of third-party publishers, platforms and mobile app stores.  If these third parties limit, prohibit or otherwise interfere with or change the terms of the distribution or use of our dating products in any material way, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We market and distribute our dating products (including related mobile applications) through a variety of third-party publishers and distribution channels.  Our ability to market our brands on any given property or channel is subject to the policies of the relevant third party.  Certain publishers and channels have, from time to time, limited or prohibited advertisements for dating products for a variety of reasons, including as a result of poor behavior by other industry participants.  There is no assurance that we will not be limited or prohibited from using certain current or prospective marketing channels in the future.  If this were to happen in the case of a significant marketing channel and/or for a significant period of time, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Additionally, our mobile applications are increasingly accessed through the Apple App Store and the Google Play Store.  Both Apple and Google have broad discretion to change their respective terms and conditions applicable to the distribution of our applications, including the amount of, and requirement to pay, certain fees associated with purchases facilitated by Apple and Google through our applications, and to interpret their respective terms and conditions in ways that may limit, eliminate or otherwise interfere with our ability to distribute our applications through their stores.  There is no assurance that Apple or Google will not limit or eliminate or otherwise interfere with the distribution of our applications.  If either or both of them did so, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Lastly, in the case of Tinder, and certain other of our products, many users currently register for (and log in to) the application exclusively through their Facebook profiles.  While we recently launched an alternate authentication method that allows users to register for (and log into) Tinder using their mobile phone number, no assurances can be provided that this method will be widely adopted by users versus registering for (and logging into) Tinder through their Facebook profiles.  Facebook has broad discretion to change its terms and conditions applicable to the use of its platform and to interpret its terms and conditions in ways that could limit, eliminate or otherwise interfere with our ability to use Facebook as an authentication method and if Facebook did so and no alternate method is available (or the alternate method that we ultimately develop is not adopted by users), our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. 12. Table of Contents. As the distribution of our dating products through app stores increases, in order to maintain our profit margins, we may need to offset increasing app store fees by decreasing traditional marketing expenditures, increasing user volume or monetization per user or by engaging in other efforts to increase revenue or decrease costs generally, or our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. As our user base continues to shift to mobile solutions, we increasingly rely on the Apple App Store and the Google Play Store to distribute our mobile applications and related in-app products.  While our mobile applications are generally free to download from these stores, we offer our users the opportunity to purchase subscriptions and certain à la carte features through these applications.  We determine the prices at which these subscriptions and features are sold; however, purchases of these subscriptions and features are required to be processed through the in-app payment systems provided by Apple and, to a lesser degree, Google. Due to these requirements, we pay Apple and Google, as applicable, a share (generally 30%) of the revenue we receive from these transactions.  While we are constantly innovating on and creating our own payment systems and methods, given the increase of the distribution of our dating products through app stores and the requirement to use the in-app payments systems provided by Apple, and to a lesser degree, Google, we may need to offset these increased app store fees by decreasing traditional marketing expenditures as a percentage of revenue, increasing user volume or monetization per user, or by engaging in other efforts to increase revenue or decrease costs generally, or our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We depend on our key personnel.. Our future success will depend upon our continued ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled individuals, with the continued contributions of our senior management being especially critical to our success.  Competition for well-qualified employees across Match Group and its various businesses is intense and our continued ability to compete effectively depends, in part, upon our ability to attract new employees.  While we have established programs to attract new employees and provide incentives to retain existing employees, particularly our senior management, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to attract new employees or retain the services of our senior management or any other key employees in the future.  Effective succession planning is also important to our future success.  If we fail to ensure the effective transfer of senior management knowledge and smooth transitions involving senior management across our various businesses, our ability to execute short and long term strategic, financial and operating goals, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations generally, could be adversely affected.. Our success depends, in part, on the integrity of our systems and infrastructures and on our ability to enhance, expand and adapt these systems and infrastructures in a timely and cost-effective manner.. In order for us to succeed, our systems and infrastructures must perform well on a consistent basis.  From time to time, we may experience system interruptions that make some or all of our systems or data unavailable and prevent our products from functioning properly for our users; any such interruption could arise for any number of reasons.  Further, our systems and infrastructures are vulnerable to damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events.  While we have backup systems in place for certain aspects of our operations, our systems and infrastructures are not fully redundant, disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for all eventualities and our property and business interruption insurance coverage may not be adequate to compensate us fully for any losses that we may suffer.  Any interruptions or outages, regardless of the cause, could negatively impact our users' experiences with our products, tarnish our brands' reputations and decrease demand for our products, any or all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We also continually work to expand and enhance the efficiency and scalability of our technology and network systems to improve the experience of our users, accommodate substantial increases in the volume of traffic to our various dating products, ensure acceptable page load times for our dating products and keep up with changes in technology and user preferences.  Any failure to do so in a timely and cost-effective manner could adversely affect our users' experience with our various products and thereby negatively impact the demand for our products, and could increase our costs, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 13. Table of Contents. We may not be able to protect our systems and infrastructures from cyberattacks and may be adversely affected by cyberattacks experienced by third parties.. We are regularly under attack by perpetrators of random or targeted malicious technology-related events, such as cyberattacks, computer viruses, worms, bot attacks or other destructive or disruptive software, distributed denial of service attacks and attempts to misappropriate customer information, including credit card information.  While we have invested (and continue to invest) heavily in the protection of our systems and infrastructures and in related personnel and training, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent significant breaches in our systems or other such events from occurring.  Any cyber or similar attack we are unable to protect ourselves against could damage our systems and infrastructures, prevent us from providing our products, erode our reputation and brands, result in the disclosure of confidential or sensitive information of our users and/or be costly to remedy, as well as subject us to investigations by regulatory authorities and/or litigation that could result in liability to third parties.. The impact of cyber security events experienced by third-parties with whom we do business (or upon whom we otherwise rely in connection with our day-to-day operations) could have a similar effect on us.  Moreover, even cyber or similar attacks that do not directly affect us or third parties with whom we do business may result in a loss of consumer confidence generally, which could make users less likely to use or continue to use our products.  The occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our success depends, in part, on the integrity of third-party systems and infrastructures.. We rely on third parties, primarily data center service providers and cloud-based, hosted web service providers, as well as third-party computer systems, broadband and other communications systems and service providers, in connection with the provision of our products generally, as well as to facilitate and process certain transactions with our users.  We have no control over any of these third parties or their operations.. Problems experienced by third-party data center service providers  and cloud-based, hosted web service providers upon whom we rely, the telecommunications network providers with whom they contract or with the systems through which telecommunications providers allocate capacity among their customers could also adversely affect us.  Any changes in service levels at our data centers or hosted web service providers or any interruptions, outages or delays in our systems or those of our third-party providers, or deterioration in the performance of these systems, could impair our ability to provide our products or process transactions with our users, which would adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If the security of personal and confidential or sensitive user information that we maintain and store is breached or otherwise accessed by unauthorized persons, it may be costly to mitigate the impact of such an event and our reputation could be harmed.. We receive, process, store and transmit a significant amount of personal user and other confidential or sensitive information, including credit card information, and enable our users to share their personal information with each other.  In some cases, we retain third-party vendors to store this information.  We continuously develop and maintain systems to protect the security, integrity and confidentiality of this information, but cannot guarantee that inadvertent or unauthorized use or disclosure will not occur or that third parties will not gain unauthorized access to this information despite our efforts.  If any such event were to occur, we may not be able to remedy the event, and we may have to expend significant capital and other resources to mitigate the impact of such an event, and to develop and implement protections to prevent future events of this nature from occurring.  If a breach of our security (or the security of our vendors and partners) occurs, the perception of the effectiveness of our security measures and our reputation may be harmed, we could lose current and potential users and the recognition of our various brands and their competitive positions could be diminished, any or all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business is subject to complex and evolving U.S. and international laws and regulations.  Many of these laws and regulations are subject to change and uncertain interpretation, and could result in claims, changes to our business practices, monetary penalties, increased cost of operations, or declines in user growth or engagement, or otherwise harm our business.. We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the United States and abroad that involve matters that are important to or may otherwise impact our business, including, among others, broadband internet access, online. 14. Table of Contents. commerce, advertising, user privacy, data protection, protection of minors, consumer protection, sex-trafficking, taxation and securities law compliance.  The introduction of new products, expansion of our activities in certain jurisdictions, or other actions that we may take may subject us to additional laws, regulations, or other government scrutiny.  In addition, foreign laws and regulations can impose different obligations or be more restrictive than those in the United States.. These U.S. federal and state and foreign laws and regulations, which in some cases can be enforced by private parties in addition to government entities, are constantly evolving and can be subject to significant change.  As a result, the application, interpretation, and enforcement of these laws and regulations are often uncertain, particularly in the new and rapidly evolving industry in which we operate, and may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country and inconsistently with our current policies and practices.  These laws and regulations, as well as any associated inquiries or investigations or any other government actions, may be costly to comply with and may delay or impede the development of new products, result in negative publicity, increase our operating costs, require significant management time and attention, and subject us to remedies that may harm our business, including fines or demands or orders that we modify or cease existing business practices.. Proposed or new legislation and regulations could also adversely affect our business.  The promulgation of new laws or regulations, or the new interpretation of existing laws and regulations, in each case that restrict or otherwise unfavorably impact the ability or manner in which we provide our services could require us to change certain aspects of our business and operations to ensure compliance, which could decrease demand for services, reduce revenues, increase costs and subject us to additional liabilities.. The adoption of any laws or regulations that adversely affect the popularity or growth in use of the internet, including laws or regulations that undermine open and neutrally administered internet access, could decrease user demand for our service offerings and increase our cost of doing business.  For example, in December 2017, the Federal Communications Commission adopted an order reversing net neutrality protections in the United States, including the repeal of specific rules against blocking, throttling or \"paid prioritization\" of content or services by internet service providers. To the extent internet service providers engage in such blocking, throttling, \"paid prioritization\" of content or similar actions as a result of this order and the adoption of similar laws or regulations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. The varying and rapidly-evolving regulatory framework on privacy and data protection across jurisdictions could result in claims, changes to our business practices, monetary penalties, increased cost of operations, or declines in user growth or engagement, or otherwise harm our business.. There are numerous laws in the countries in which we operate regarding privacy and the storage, sharing, use, processing, disclosure and protection of this kind of information, the scope of which are constantly changing, inconsistent and conflicting and subject to differing interpretations, as new laws of this nature are proposed and adopted.  For example, in 2016 the European Commission adopted the General Data Protection Act, a comprehensive European Union privacy and data protection reform that becomes effective in May 2018, which applies to companies established in the European Union or otherwise providing services or monitoring the behavior of people located in the European Union and which provides for significant penalties in case of non-compliance.  The European Union is also considering an update to the EU's Privacy and Electronic Communications (so-called \"e-Privacy\") Directive, notably to amend rules on the use of cookies.  In addition, Brexit could result in the application of new and conflicting data privacy and protection laws and standards to our operations in the United Kingdom and our handling of personal data of users located in the United Kingdom.  At the same time, certain developing countries in which we do business have already or are also currently considering adopting privacy and data protection laws and regulations and legislative proposals concerning privacy and the protection of user information are often pending before the U.S. Congress and various U.S. state legislatures.. While we believe that we comply with industry standards and applicable laws and industry codes of conduct relating to privacy and data protection in all material respects, there is no assurance that we will not be subject to claims that we have violated applicable laws or codes of conduct, that we will be able to successfully defend against such claims or that we will not be subject to significant fines and penalties in the event of non-compliance.. Any failure or perceived failure by us (or the third parties with whom we have contracted to store such information) to comply with applicable privacy and security laws, policies or related contractual obligations or any compromise of security that results in unauthorized access, or the use or transmission of, personal user. 15. Table of Contents. information could result in a variety of claims against us, including governmental enforcement actions, significant fines, litigation, claims of breach of contract and indemnity by third parties and adverse publicity.  In the case of such an event, our reputation may be harmed, we could lose current and potential users and the competitive positions of our various brands could be diminished, any or all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Lastly, compliance with the numerous laws in the countries in which we operate regarding privacy and the storage, sharing, use, processing, disclosure and protection of personal data could be costly, as well as result in delays in the development of new products and features as resources are allocated to these compliance projects, particularly as these laws become more comprehensive in scope, more commonplace and continue to evolve.  In addition, the varying and rapidly-evolving regulatory frameworks across jurisdictions may result in decisions to introduce products in certain jurisdictions but not others or to cease providing certain services or features to users located in certain jurisdictions.  If these costs or other impacts are significant, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We are subject to a number of risks related to credit card payments, including data security breaches and fraud that we or third parties experience or additional regulation, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We accept payment from our users primarily through credit card transactions and certain online payment service providers.  The ability to access credit card information on a real-time basis without having to proactively reach out to the consumer each time we process an auto-renewal payment or a payment for the purchase of a premium feature on any of our dating products is critical to our success.. When we or a third party experiences a data security breach involving credit card information, affected cardholders will often cancel their credit cards.  In the case of a breach experienced by a third party, the more sizable the third party's customer base and the greater the number of credit card accounts impacted, the more likely it is that our users would be impacted by such a breach.  To the extent our users are ever affected by such a breach experienced by us or a third party, affected users would need to be contacted to obtain new credit card information and process any pending transactions.  It is likely that we would not be able to reach all affected users, and even if we could, some users' new credit card information may not be obtained and some pending transactions may not be processed, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Even if our users are not directly impacted by a given data security breach, they may lose confidence in the ability of service providers to protect their personal information generally, which could cause them to stop using their credit cards online and choose alternative payment methods that are not as convenient for us or restrict our ability to process payments without significant user effort.. Additionally, if we fail to adequately prevent fraudulent credit card transactions, we may face litigation, fines, governmental enforcement action, civil liability, diminished public perception of our security measures, significantly higher credit card-related costs and substantial remediation costs, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Finally, the passage or adoption of any legislation or regulation affecting the ability of service providers to periodically charge consumers for recurring subscription payments may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  For example, the European Union's Payment Services Directive (PSD2), which becomes effective in 2018, could impact our ability to process auto-renewal payments or offer promotional or differentiated pricing for users in the EU.  Any such impacts could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Inappropriate actions by certain of our users could be attributed to us and damage our brands' reputations, which in turn could adversely affect our business.. The reputations of our brands may be adversely affected by the actions of our users that are deemed to be hostile, offensive, defamatory, inappropriate or unlawful.  While we have systems and processes in place that aim to monitor and review the appropriateness of the content accessible through our dating products, which include, in particular, reporting tools through which users can inform us of such behavior on the platform, and have adopted policies regarding illegal, offensive or inappropriate use of our dating products, our users could nonetheless. 16. Table of Contents. engage in activities that violate our policies.  These safeguards may not be sufficient to avoid harm to our reputation and brands, especially if such hostile, offensive or inappropriate use is well-publicized.. In addition, it is possible that a user of our products could be physically, financially, emotionally or otherwise harmed by an individual that such user met through the use of one of our products.  If one or more of our users suffers or alleges to have suffered any such harm, we could experience negative publicity or legal action that could damage our reputation and our brands.  Similar events affecting users of our competitors' dating products could result in negative publicity for the dating industry generally, which could in turn negatively affect our business.. Concerns about harms and the use of dating products and social networking platforms for illegal conduct, such as romance scams, financial fraud, and sex-trafficking, could produce future legislation or other governmental action.  For example, legislation has been proposed in the United States that would allow victims of sex trafficking crimes to seek redress from platforms in certain circumstances. The European Union and the United Kingdom have also recently launched consultations regarding legislation that would expose platforms to similar or more expansive liability. If these proposed laws are passed, or if future legislation or governmental action is proposed or taken to address concerns regarding such harms, changes could be required to our dating products that could restrict or impose additional costs upon the conduct of our business generally or cause users to abandon our dating products.. We may fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or may be accused of infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties.. We rely heavily upon our trademarks and related domain names and logos to market our brands and to build and maintain brand loyalty and recognition, as well as upon trade secrets.  We also rely upon patented and patent-pending proprietary technologies relating to matching process systems and related features and products.. We also rely on a combination of laws, and contractual restrictions with employees, customers, suppliers, affiliates and others, to establish and protect our various intellectual property rights.  For example, we have generally registered and continue to apply to register and renew, or secure by contract where appropriate, trademarks and service marks as they are developed and used, and reserve, register and renew domain names as we deem appropriate.  Effective trademark protection may not be available or may not be sought in every country in which our products are made available and contractual disputes may affect the use of marks governed by private contract.  Similarly, not every variation of a domain name may be available or be registered, even if available.. We also generally seek to apply for patents or for other similar statutory protections as and if we deem appropriate, based on then-current facts and circumstances, and will continue to do so in the future.  No assurances can be given that any patent application we have filed or will file will result in a patent being issued, or that any existing or future patents will afford adequate protection against competitors and similar technologies.  In addition, no assurances can be given that third parties will not create new products or methods that achieve similar results without infringing upon patents we own.. Despite these measures, our intellectual property rights may still not be protected in a meaningful manner, challenges to contractual rights could arise, third parties could copy or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization or laws and interpretations of laws regarding the enforceability of existing intellectual property rights may change over time in a manner that provides less protection.  The occurrence of any of these events could result in the erosion of our brands and limit our ability to market our brands using our various domain names, as well as impede our ability to effectively compete against competitors with similar technologies, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. From time to time, we have been subject to legal proceedings and claims, including claims of alleged infringement of trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights held by third parties.  In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets and patents or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights claimed by others.  Any litigation of this nature, regardless of outcome or merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical resources, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 17. Table of Contents. We operate in various international markets, including certain markets in which we have limited experience.  As a result, we face additional risks in connection with certain of our international operations.. Our brands are available in over 190 countries and offered in 42 different languages.  Our international revenue represented 45% and 39% of our total revenue for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.. Operating internationally, particularly in countries in which we have limited experience, exposes us to a number of additional risks, including:. • operational and compliance challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences;. • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations;. • differing levels of social and technological acceptance of our dating products or lack of acceptance of them generally;. • foreign currency fluctuations;. • restrictions on the transfer of funds among countries and back to the United States and costs associated with repatriating funds to the United States;. • differing and potentially adverse tax laws;. • multiple, conflicting and changing laws, rules and regulations, and difficulties understanding and ensuring compliance with those laws by both our employees and our business partners, over whom we exert no control;. • compliance challenges due to different laws and regulatory environments, particularly in the case of privacy and data security;. • competitive environments that favor local businesses;. • limitations on the level of intellectual property protection; and. • trade sanctions, political unrest, terrorism, war and epidemics or the threat of any of these events.. The occurrence of any or all of the events described above could adversely affect our international operations, which could in turn adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may experience operational and financial risks in connection with acquisitions.. We have made numerous acquisitions in the past and we continue to seek potential acquisition candidates. We may experience operational and financial risks in connection with historical and future acquisitions if we are unable to:. • properly value prospective acquisitions, especially those with limited operating histories;. • accurately review acquisition candidates' business practices against applicable laws and regulations and, where applicable, implement proper remediation controls, procedures, and policies;. • successfully integrate the operations, as well as the accounting, financial controls, management information, technology, human resources and other administrative systems, of acquired businesses with our existing operations and systems;. • successfully identify and realize potential synergies among acquired and existing businesses;. • retain or hire senior management and other key personnel at acquired businesses; and. • successfully manage acquisition-related strain on our management, operations and financial resources and those of the various brands in our portfolio.. Furthermore, we may not be successful in addressing other challenges encountered in connection with our acquisitions.  The anticipated benefits of one or more of our acquisitions may not be realized or the value of goodwill and other intangible assets acquired could be impacted by one or more continuing unfavorable events or trends, which could result in significant impairment charges.  The occurrence of any these events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 18. Table of Contents. We are subject to litigation and adverse outcomes in such litigation could have an adverse effect on our financial condition.. We are, and from time to time may become, subject to litigation and various legal proceedings, including litigation and proceedings related to intellectual property matters, privacy and consumer protection laws, as well as stockholder derivative suits, class action lawsuits and other matters, that involve claims for substantial amounts of money or for other relief or that might necessitate changes to our business or operations.  For example, as discussed in \"Item 3 - Legal Proceedings,\" in early 2016 we were named, among other defendants, in purported class action lawsuits on behalf of purchasers of shares of our common stock in our initial public offering and thereafter.  The defense of these actions may be both time consuming and expensive.  We evaluate these litigation claims and legal proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and to estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses.  Based on these assessments and estimates, we may establish reserves and/or disclose the relevant litigation claims or legal proceedings, as and when required or appropriate.  These assessments and estimates are based on information available to management at the time of such assessment or estimation and involve a significant amount of judgment.  As a result, actual outcomes or losses could differ materially from those envisioned by our current assessments and estimates.  Our failure to successfully defend or settle any of these litigations or legal proceedings could result in liability that, to the extent not covered by our insurance, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks related to our ongoing relationship with IAC. IAC controls our company and has the ability to control the direction of our business.. As of February 2, 2018, IAC owned 12,843,442 shares of our common stock and 209,919,402 shares of Class B common stock representing 100% of our outstanding Class B common stock.  IAC's ownership of our outstanding common stock and Class B common stock represents approximately 81.2% of our outstanding shares of capital stock and approximately 97.6% of the combined voting power of our outstanding capital stock.  As long as IAC owns shares of our capital stock representing a majority of the combined voting power of our outstanding capital stock, it will be able to control any corporate action that requires a stockholder vote, regardless of the vote of any other stockholder.  As a result, IAC has the ability to control significant corporate activities, including:. • the election of our board of directors and, through our board of directors, decision-making with respect to our business direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of our officers;. • acquisitions or dispositions of businesses or assets, mergers or other business combinations;. • issuances of shares of our common stock, Class B common stock, Class C common stock and our capital structure;. • corporate opportunities that may be suitable for us and IAC, subject to the corporate opportunity provisions in our certificate of incorporation, as described below;. • our financing activities, including the issuance of additional debt and equity securities, or the incurrence of other indebtedness generally;. • the payment of dividends; and. • the number of shares available for issuance under our equity incentive plans for our prospective and existing employees.. This voting control will limit the ability of other stockholders to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that stockholders other than IAC do not view as beneficial.  This voting control may also discourage transactions involving a change of control of our company, including transactions in which holders of our common stock might otherwise receive a premium for the holders' shares.  Furthermore, IAC generally has the right at any time to sell or otherwise dispose of the shares of our capital stock that it owns, including the ability to transfer a controlling interest in us to a third party, without the approval of the holders of our common stock and without providing for the purchase of shares of common stock.. Even if IAC owns shares of our capital stock representing less than a majority of the combined voting power of our outstanding capital stock, so long as IAC retains shares representing a significant percentage of our combined voting power, IAC will have the ability to substantially influence these significant corporate activities.. 19. Table of Contents. In addition, pursuant to an investor rights agreement between us and IAC, IAC has the right to maintain its level of ownership in us to the extent we issue additional shares of our capital stock in the future and, pursuant to an employee matters agreement between us and IAC, IAC may receive payment for certain compensation expenses through the receipt of additional shares of our capital stock.  For a more complete summary of our agreements with IAC, see \"Note 16 - Related Party Transactions\" to the consolidated and combined financial statements included in \"Item 8 - Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements.\". Until such time as IAC no longer controls or has the ability to substantially influence us, we will continue to face the risks described in this \"Risk factors\" section relating to IAC's control of us and the potential conflicts of interest between IAC and us.. Our certificate of incorporation could prevent us from benefiting from corporate opportunities that might otherwise have been available to us.. Our certificate of incorporation has a \"corporate opportunity\" provision in which we renounce any interests or expectancy in corporate opportunities which become known to: (i) any of our directors or officers who are also officers, directors, employees or other affiliates of IAC or its affiliates (except that we and our subsidiaries shall not be deemed affiliates of IAC or its affiliates for the purposes of the provision) or (ii) IAC itself, and which relate to the business of IAC or may constitute a corporate opportunity for both IAC and us.  Generally, neither IAC nor our officers or directors who are also officers or directors of IAC or its affiliates will be liable to us or our stockholders for breach of any fiduciary duty by reason of the fact that any such person pursues or acquires any corporate opportunity for the account of IAC or its affiliates, directs or transfers such corporate opportunity to IAC or its affiliates, or does not communicate information regarding such corporate opportunity to us.  The corporate opportunity provision may exacerbate conflicts of interest between IAC and us because the provision effectively permits any of our directors or officers who also serves as an officer or director of IAC to choose to direct a corporate opportunity to IAC instead of to us.. IAC's interests may conflict with our interests and the interests of our stockholders.  Conflicts of interest between IAC and us could be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us and our public stockholders.. Various conflicts of interest between us and IAC could arise.  As of the date of this report, five of our eleven directors are current members of the board of directors or executive officers of IAC.  Ownership interests of directors or officers of IAC in our stock and ownership interests of our directors and officers in the stock of IAC, or a person's service as either a director or officer of both companies, could create or appear to create potential conflicts of interest when those directors and officers are faced with decisions relating to our company.  These decisions could include:. • corporate opportunities;. • the impact that operating decisions for our business may have on IAC's consolidated financial statements;. • the impact that operating or capital decisions (including the incurrence of indebtedness) for our business may have on IAC's current or future indebtedness or the covenants under that indebtedness;. • business combinations involving us;. • our dividend policy;. • management stock ownership; and. • the intercompany services and agreements between IAC and us.. Potential conflicts of interest could also arise if we decide to enter into any new commercial arrangements with IAC in the future or in connection with IAC's desire to enter into new commercial arrangements with third parties.. Furthermore, disputes may arise between IAC and us relating to our past and ongoing relationships, and these potential conflicts of interest may make it more difficult for us to favorably resolve such disputes, including those related to:. •  tax, employee benefit, indemnification and other matters;. 20. Table of Contents. •  the nature, quality and pricing of services IAC agrees to provide to us;. •  sales or other disposal by IAC of all or a portion of its ownership interest in us; and. •  business combinations involving us.. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts with IAC, and even if we do, the resolution may be less favorable to us than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party.  While we are controlled by IAC, we may not have the leverage to negotiate amendments to these agreements, if required, on terms as favorable to us as those we would negotiate with an unaffiliated third party.. We are a \"controlled company\" as defined in the NASDAQ rules, and rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements that provide protection to stockholders of other companies.. As a result of IAC owning more than 50% of the combined voting power of our share capital, we are a \"controlled company\" under the Marketplace Rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market, or the Marketplace Rules.  As a \"controlled company,\" we are exempt from the obligation to comply with certain Marketplace Rules related to corporate governance, including the following requirements:. •  that a majority of our board of directors consists of \"independent directors,\" as defined under the Marketplace Rules; and. •  that we have a nominating/governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities.. Accordingly, for so long as we are a \"controlled company,\" our stockholders will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the Marketplace Rules.. In order to preserve the ability of IAC to distribute its shares of our capital stock on a tax-free basis, we may be prevented from pursuing opportunities to raise capital, to effectuate acquisitions or to provide equity incentives to our employees, which could hurt our ability to grow.. Under current laws, IAC must retain beneficial ownership of at least 80% of our combined voting power and 80% of each class of our nonvoting capital stock (if any is outstanding) in order to effect a tax-free distribution of our shares held by IAC to its stockholders.  As of the date of this annual report, IAC has advised us that it does not have any present intention or plans to undertake such a tax-free distribution.  However, IAC does currently intend to use its majority voting interest to retain its ability to engage in such a transaction.  This intention may cause IAC to not support transactions we wish to pursue that involve issuing shares of our common stock, including for capital raising purposes, as consideration for an acquisition or as equity incentives to our employees.  The inability to pursue such transactions, if it occurs, may adversely affect our company.  See \" - IAC controls our company and will have the ability to control the direction of our business\" and \" - IAC's interests may conflict with our interests and the interests of our stockholders.\"  Conflicts of interest between IAC and us could be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us and our public stockholders.. Our agreements with IAC will require us to indemnify IAC for certain tax liabilities and may limit our ability to engage in desirable strategic or capital raising transactions, including following any distribution by IAC of our capital stock to its stockholders.. Under a tax sharing agreement between us and IAC, we generally are responsible and are required to indemnify IAC for: (i) all taxes imposed with respect to any consolidated, combined or unitary tax return of IAC or one of its subsidiaries that includes us or any of our subsidiaries to the extent attributable to us or any of our subsidiaries, as determined under the tax sharing agreement, and (ii) all taxes imposed with respect to any consolidated, combined, unitary or separate tax returns of us or any of our subsidiaries.  To the extent IAC failed to pay taxes imposed with respect to any consolidated, combined or unitary tax return of IAC or one of its subsidiaries that includes us or any of our subsidiaries, the relevant taxing authority could seek to collect such taxes (including taxes for which IAC is responsible under the tax sharing agreement) from us or our subsidiaries.. Under the tax sharing agreement, we generally will be responsible for any taxes and related amounts imposed on IAC or us that arise from the failure of a future spin-off of IAC's interest in us to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, under Section 368(a)(1)(D) and/or Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, to the extent that the failure to so. 21. Table of Contents. qualify is attributable to: (i) a breach of the relevant representations and covenants made by us in the tax sharing agreement or any representation letter provided in support of any tax opinion or ruling obtained by IAC with respect to the U.S. federal income tax treatment of such spin-off, or (ii) an acquisition of our equity securities.. To preserve the tax-free treatment of any potential future spin-off by IAC of its interest in us, and in addition to our indemnity obligation described above, the tax sharing agreement will restrict us, for the two-year period following any such spin-off, except in specific circumstances, from: (i) entering into any transaction pursuant to which all or a portion of shares of our stock would be acquired, whether by merger or otherwise, (ii) issuing equity securities beyond certain thresholds, (iii) repurchasing our shares other than in certain open-market transactions, (iv) ceasing to actively conduct our businesses or (v) taking or failing to take any other action that prevents the distribution and related transactions from qualifying as a transaction that is generally tax-free, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, under Section 368(a)(1)(D) and/or Section 355 of the Code.. These indemnity obligations and other limitations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Future sales or distributions of our shares by IAC could depress our common stock price.. IAC has the right to sell or distribute to its stockholders all or a portion of the shares of our capital stock that it holds (12,843,442 shares of our common stock and 209,919,402 shares of our Class B common stock, representing all of our outstanding Class B common stock, as of February 2, 2018).  As of the date of this annual report, IAC has advised us that it does not have any present intention or plans to undertake such a sale or distribution; however, any sales by IAC in the public market or distributions to its stockholders of substantial amounts of our stock in the form of common stock or Class B common stock, or the filing by IAC of a registration statement relating to a substantial amount of our stock, could depress the price of our common stock.. In addition, IAC has the right, subject to certain conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering the sale of its shares or to include its shares in other registration statements that we may file.  In the event IAC exercises its registration rights and sells all or a portion of its shares of our capital stock, the price of our common stock could decline.. The services that IAC provides to us may not be sufficient to meet our needs, which may result in increased costs and otherwise adversely affect our business.. IAC currently provides (and is expected to continue to provide) us with corporate and shared services related to certain corporate functions, including tax, treasury and other services, for a fee provided in the services agreement described in \"Item 1 - Business-Relationship with IAC.\"  IAC is not obligated to provide these services in a manner that differs from the nature of the service when we were a wholly-owned subsidiary of IAC, and thus we may not be able to modify these services in a manner desirable to us as a stand-alone public company. Further, if we no longer receive these services from IAC, we may not be able to perform these services ourselves, or find appropriate third-party arrangements at a reasonable cost, and the cost may be higher than that charged by IAC.. Risks related to our indebtedness. Our indebtedness may affect our ability to operate our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  We and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness.. As of December 31, 2017, we had total debt outstanding of approximately $1.3 billion and borrowing availability of $500 million under our revolving credit facility.. Our indebtedness could have important consequences, such as:. • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital needs, acquisitions, capital expenditures or other debt service requirements or for other purposes;. • limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to service debt;. • limiting our ability to compete with other companies who are not as highly leveraged, as we may be less capable of responding to adverse economic and industry conditions;. 22. Table of Contents. • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions, developing properties or exploiting business opportunities;. • restricting the way in which we conduct our business because of financial and operating covenants in the agreements governing our and certain of our subsidiaries' existing and future indebtedness, including, in the case of certain indebtedness of subsidiaries, certain covenants that restrict the ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us;. • exposing us to potential events of default (if not cured or waived) under financial and operating covenants contained in our or our subsidiaries' debt instruments that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results; increasing our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions or in pricing of our products; and. • limiting our ability to react to changing market conditions in our industry and in our customers' industries.. In addition to our debt service obligations, our operations require substantial investments on a continuing basis.  Our ability to make scheduled debt payments, to refinance our obligations with respect to our indebtedness and to fund capital and non-capital expenditures necessary to maintain the condition of our operating assets and properties, as well as to provide capacity for the growth of our business, depends on our financial and operating performance, which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, competitive, legal and other factors.. Subject to the restrictions in our credit agreement (which includes our revolving credit facility and term loan) and the restrictions included in the indentures related to our 6.375% Senior Notes due 2024 and 5.00% Senior Notes due 2027 (the \"Match Group Senior Notes\"), we and our subsidiaries may incur significant additional indebtedness, including additional secured indebtedness. Although the terms of our credit agreement and the indentures related to the Match Group Senior Notes contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be significant.  If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries' current debt levels, the risks described above could increase.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our current and planned indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness that may not be successful.. Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations will depend upon, among other things:. • our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control; and. • our future ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility, the availability of which will depend on, among other things, our complying with the covenants in the then-existing agreements governing our indebtedness.. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that we will be able to draw under our revolving credit facility or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to fund our liquidity needs.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to service our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness.  These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations.  Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time.  Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations.  In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives.  In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations, sell equity, and/or negotiate with our lenders to restructure the applicable debt, in order to meet our debt service and other obligations.  We may not be able to consummate those dispositions for fair market value or at all.  Our credit agreement and the indentures related to the Match Group Senior Notes may restrict, or market or business conditions may limit, our ability to avail ourselves of some or all of these options.. 23. Table of Contents. Furthermore, any proceeds that we could realize from any such dispositions may not be adequate to meet our debt service obligations then due.. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that will limit our flexibility in operating our business.. Our credit agreement and the indentures related to the Match Group Senior Notes contain, and any instruments governing future indebtedness of ours would likely contain, a number of covenants that will impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to, among other things:. • create liens on certain assets;. • incur additional debt;. • make certain investments and acquisitions;. • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets;. • sell certain assets;. • pay dividends on or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make restricted payments;. • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates; and. • place restrictions on distributions from subsidiaries.. Any of these restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions and could otherwise restrict corporate activities.  Any failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreement and/or the indentures related to the Match Group Senior Notes or any instruments governing future indebtedness of ours.  Upon a default, unless waived, the lenders under our credit agreement could elect to terminate their commitments, cease making further loans, foreclose on our assets pledged to such lenders to secure our obligations under our credit agreement and force us into bankruptcy or liquidation.  Holders of the Match Group Senior Notes also have the ability to force us into bankruptcy or liquidation in certain circumstances, subject to the terms of the related indentures.  In addition, a default under our credit agreement or the indentures related to the Match Group Senior Notes may trigger a cross default under our other agreements and could trigger a cross default under the agreements governing our future indebtedness.  Our operating results may not be sufficient to service our indebtedness or to fund our other expenditures and we may not be able to obtain financing to meet these requirements.. Variable rate indebtedness that we have incurred or may incur under our credit agreement will subject us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.. We currently have $425 million of indebtedness outstanding under our term loan.  Borrowings under the term loan are, and any borrowings under our revolving credit facility will be, at variable rates of interest.  Indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates exposes us to interest rate risk.  Our term loan bears interest at LIBOR plus 2.50%.  As of December 31, 2017, the rate in effect was 3.85%.  If LIBOR were to increase or decrease by 100 basis points, then the annual interest and expense payments on the outstanding balance as of December 31, 2017 on the term loan would increase or decrease by $4.3 million.  See also \"Item 7A-Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.\". Risks related to ownership of our common stock. The multi-class structure of our capital stock has the effect of concentrating voting control with holders of our Class B common stock and limiting the ability of holders of our common stock to influence corporate matters.. Our publicly held common stock has one vote per share and our Class B common stock has ten votes per share.  As of February 2, 2018, IAC owned all of the shares of our outstanding Class B common stock and 12,843,442 shares of our common stock, collectively representing approximately 81.2% of our outstanding shares of capital stock and approximately 97.6% of the combined voting power of our outstanding capital stock.  Due to the ten-to-one voting ratio between our Class B common stock and common stock, the holders of our Class B common stock collectively will continue to control a majority of the combined voting power of our capital stock, even when the outstanding shares of Class B common stock represent a small minority of our outstanding capital stock, and such voting control will be concentrated with IAC.  This concentrated control will significantly limit your ability to influence corporate matters.. 24. Table of Contents. The difference in the voting rights of our common stock and our Class B common stock may harm the value and liquidity of our common stock.. Holders of our Class B common stock are entitled to ten votes per share and holders of our common stock are entitled to one vote per share.  The difference in the voting rights of our common stock and Class B common stock could harm the value of our common stock to the extent that any investor or potential future purchaser of our common stock ascribes value to the right of the holders of our Class B common stock to ten votes per share.  The existence of two classes of common stock with different voting rights could result in less liquidity for either class of stock than if there were only one class of our common stock.. The price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. During 2017, our common stock has traded as high as $32.87 and as low as $15.42 and on February 27, 2018, the closing price of our common stock was $40.07.  The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance.  These fluctuations could cause you to lose part of your investment in our common stock since you might be unable to sell your shares at or above the price you paid.  Factors that could cause fluctuations in the market price of our common stock include the following:. • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time;. • volatility in the market prices and trading volumes of technology stocks generally, or those in our industry in particular;. • changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those in our industry in particular;. • volatility in the market price of our common stock due to the limited number of shares of our common stock held by the public;. • sales of shares of our stock by us and/or our directors, executive officers, employees and stockholders;. • the failure of securities analysts to maintain coverage of us, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts who follow our company or our failure to meet these estimates or the expectations of investors;. • the financial projections we may provide to the public, and any changes in those projections or our failure to meet those projections;. • announcements by us or our competitors of new brands, products or services;. • the public's reaction to our earnings releases, other public announcements and filings with the SEC;. • rumors and market speculation involving us or other companies in our industry;. • actual or anticipated changes in our operating results or fluctuations in our operating results;. • actual or anticipated developments in our business, our competitors' businesses or the competitive landscape generally;. • litigation involving us, our industry or both, or investigations by regulators into our operations or those of our competitors;. • developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights;. • announced or completed acquisitions of businesses or technologies by us or our competitors;. • new laws or regulations or new interpretations of (or changes to) existing laws or regulations applicable to our business;. • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidelines, interpretations or principles;. • any significant change in our management; and. • general economic conditions and slow or negative growth in any of our significant markets.. 25. Table of Contents. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies.  We currently are, and in the future may be, the target of this type of litigation.  See \"Item 3 - Legal Proceedings.\" Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources.. You may experience dilution due to the issuance of additional securities in the future.. Our dilutive securities consist of vested and unvested options to purchase shares of our common stock, restricted stock unit awards, shares of our common stock issuable to IAC as reimbursement for the cost of vested and unvested IAC equity awards held by our employees and stock appreciation rights settled in IAC stock.. These dilutive securities are reflected in our share calculations underlying our dilutive earnings per share calculation contained in our financial statements for fiscal years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015.  For more information, see \"Note 11 - Earnings per Share\" to the consolidated and combined financial statements included in \"Item 8-Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.\"  Intra-quarter movements in our stock price, could lead to more or less dilution than reflected in these calculations.. At the option of IAC, the shares Match Group issues in connection with former subsidiary equity awards, which were converted into Match Group equity awards in 2017, will either be issued to holders of such awards or to IAC.  In the event they are issued to IAC, IAC would in turn provide the equity holders with IAC shares of equivalent value to the Match Group shares issued to it.  In cases where Match Group shares are issued directly to equity holders, recipients may sell such stock into the open market.  If sales are significant and concentrated, these sales could have a temporary impact on the trading value of our stock.. Our quarterly results or operating metrics could fluctuate significantly, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline.. Our quarterly results and operating metrics have fluctuated historically and we expect that they could continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and may be difficult to predict, including:. • the timing, size and effectiveness of our marketing efforts;. • fluctuations in the rate at which we attract new users, the level of engagement of such users and the propensity of such users to subscribe to our brands or to purchase à la carte features;. • increases or decreases in our revenues and expenses caused by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;. • the timing, size and effectiveness of non-marketing operating expenses that we may incur to grow and expand our operations, develop new products and remain competitive;. • the performance, reliability and availability of our technology, network systems and infrastructure and data centers;. • operational and financial risks we may experience in connection with historical and potential future acquisitions and investments; and. • general economic conditions in either domestic or international markets.. The occurrence of any one of these factors, as well as other factors, or the cumulative effect of the occurrence of one or more of such factors could cause our quarterly results and operating metrics to fluctuate significantly.  As a result, quarterly comparisons of results and operating metrics may not be meaningful.. In addition, the variability and unpredictability of our quarterly results or operating metrics could result in our failure to meet our expectations, or those of any of our investors or of analysts that cover our company, with respect to revenues or other operating results for a particular period.  If we fail to meet or exceed such expectations for these or any other reasons, the market price of our common stock could fall substantially.. We do not expect to declare any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.. We have no current plans to pay cash dividends on our common stock and Class B common stock.  Instead, we anticipate that all of our future earnings will be retained to support our operations and to finance the growth. 26. Table of Contents. and development of our business.  Any future determination relating to our dividend policy will be made by our board of directors and will depend on a number of factors, including:. • our historic and projected financial condition, liquidity and results of operations;. • our capital levels and needs;. • tax considerations;. • any acquisitions or potential acquisitions that we may consider;. • statutory and regulatory prohibitions and other limitations;. • the terms of any credit agreements or other borrowing arrangements that restrict our ability to pay cash dividends, including the Match Group Credit Agreement and the indenture relating to the Match Group Senior Notes;. • general economic conditions; and. • other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors.. We are not obligated to pay dividends on our common stock or Class B common stock. Consequently, investors may need to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment.  Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws or Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock.. Delaware corporate law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous, including provisions which:. •  authorize the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock that our board could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares and to discourage a takeover attempt;. •  limit the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders;. •  provide that certain litigation against us can only be brought in Delaware; and. •  provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws.. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock."
