[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. The Company's business faces the risks set forth below, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.  All forward-looking statements made by the Company or on the Company's behalf are qualified by the risks described below.. Risks Relating To Operations. Changes in U.S., global, regional economic conditions or governmental policies that result in a decrease in consumer confidence or market demand for the Company's services and products in Hawaii and Alaska, the U.S. Mainland, Guam, Asia or the South Pacific may adversely affect the Company's financial position, results of operations, liquidity, or cash flows.. A weakening of domestic or global economies may adversely impact the level of freight volumes and freight rates.  Within the U.S., a weakening of economic drivers in Hawaii and Alaska, which include tourism, military spending, construction starts, personal income growth and employment, or the weakening of consumer confidence, market demand, the economy in the U.S. Mainland, or the effect of a change in the strength of the U.S. dollar against other foreign currencies, may further reduce the demand for goods to and from Asia, Hawaii and Alaska, adversely affecting inland and ocean transportation volumes or rates.  In addition, overcapacity in the global or transpacific ocean transportation markets, a change in the cost of goods or currency exchange rates, imposition of tariffs, or a change in international trade policies may adversely affect freight volumes and rates in the Company's China service.. The Company may face new or increased competition.. The Company may face new competition by established or start-up shipping operators that enter the Company's markets.  The entry of a new competitor or the addition of new vessels or capacity by existing competition on any of the Company's routes could result in a significant increase in available shipping capacity that could have an adverse effect on volumes and rates.  For example, in August 2017, TOTE announced its intent to establish a new domestic shipping service to Hawaii but subsequently announced in January 2018 that its plans are on hold as a result of its Phase 1 technical review of Piers 1 and 2 in Honolulu Harbor.  In addition in December 2016, the Company's major competitor in the Guam service upgraded its U.S. flagged feeder containership from a bi - weekly service to a weekly service. 13. Table of Contents. connecting the U.S. West Coast to Guam and Saipan via transshipments over Yokohama, Japan and Busan, South Korea.  As a result of these and other potential competitor actions, the Company could experience a reduction in profitability.. The loss of or damage to key vendor, agent and customer relationships may adversely affect the Company's business.. The Company's businesses are dependent on their relationships with key vendors, agents and customers, and derive a significant portion of their revenues from the Company's largest customers.  The Company could be adversely affected by any changes in the services provided, or changes to the costs of services provided by key vendors and agents.  Relationships with railroads and shipping companies and agents are important in the Company's intermodal business as well as in the Guam, Micronesia, Japan and South Pacific services.. The Company's business also relies on its relationships with the military, freight forwarders, large retailers and consumer goods and automobile manufacturers, as well as other larger customers.  In 2017, the Company's Ocean Transportation segment's 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 23 percent of the business' revenue.  In 2017, the Company's Logistics segment's 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 19 percent of the business' revenue.  The loss of or damage to any of these key relationships may adversely affect the Company's business and revenue.. An increase in fuel prices, or changes in the Company's ability to collect fuel surcharges, may adversely affect the Company's profits.. Fuel is a significant operating expense for the Company's Ocean Transportation business.  The price and supply of fuel are unpredictable and fluctuate based on events beyond the Company's control.  Increases in the price of fuel may adversely affect the Company's results of operations.  Increases in fuel costs also can lead to increases in other expenses, for example: increased energy costs, and the costs of purchased outside transportation services.  In the Company's Ocean Transportation and Logistics services segments, the Company utilizes fuel related surcharges, although increases in the fuel surcharge may adversely affect the Company's competitive position and may not correspond exactly with the timing of increases in fuel expense.  Changes in the Company's ability to collect fuel surcharges also may adversely affect its results of operations.. Work stoppages or other labor disruptions caused by unionized workers of the Company, other workers or their unions in related industries may adversely affect the Company's operations.. As of December 31, 2017, Matson and its subsidiaries had 1,947 regular employees, of which 748 employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements with unions.  In addition, at December 31, 2016, the active Matson fleet employed seagoing personnel in 328 billets, and vessel management services employed personnel in 28 billets.  Each billet corresponds to a position on a vessel that typically is filled by two or more employees, because seagoing personnel rotate between active sea-duty and time ashore.  Such employees are also subject to collective bargaining agreements.  Furthermore, the Company relies on the services of third-parties including SSAT that employ persons covered by collective bargaining agreements.  For additional information on collective bargaining agreements with unions, see Item1.  C. Employees and Labor Relations of Part I above.. The Company could be adversely affected by actions taken by employees of the Company or other companies in related industries against efforts by management to control labor costs, restrain wage or benefit increases or modify work practices.  Strikes and disruptions may occur as a result of the failure of Matson or other companies in its industry to negotiate collective bargaining agreements with such unions successfully.. In addition, any slow-downs, strikes, lock-outs or other disruptions, including limits to availability of labor through trade union hiring halts could have an adverse impact on Matson's or SSAT's operations.. The Company is susceptible to weather, natural disasters and other operating risks.. The Company's operations are vulnerable to disruption as a result of weather and natural disasters, such as bad weather at sea, hurricanes, typhoons, tsunamis, floods and earthquakes.  Such events will interfere with the Company's ability to provide on-time scheduled service, resulting in increased expenses and potential loss of business associated with such events.  In addition, severe weather and natural disasters can result in interference with the Company's terminal. 14. Table of Contents. operations, and may cause serious damage to its vessels and cranes, loss or damage to containers, cargo and other equipment, and loss of life or physical injury to its employees, all of which could have an adverse effect on the Company's business.. The Company's vessels and their cargoes are also subject to operating risks such as mechanical failure, collisions and human error.  The occurrence of any of these events may result in damage to or loss of vessels or other property, or injury or death of people.  If any of these events were to occur, the Company could be exposed to liability for resulting damages and possible penalties that, pursuant to typical maritime industry policies, it must pay and then seek reimbursement from its insurer.  Affected vessels may also be removed from service and thus would be unavailable for income-generating activity.. The Company maintains casualty and liability insurance policies, which are generally subject to large retentions and deductibles.  Some types of losses, such as losses resulting from a port blockage, generally, are not insured.  In some cases the Company retains the entire risk of loss because it is not economically prudent to purchase insurance coverage or because of the perceived remoteness of the risk.  Other risks are uninsured because insurance coverage may not be commercially available.  Finally, the Company retains all risk of loss that exceeds the limits of its insurance.. The Company's significant operating agreements and leases could be replaced on less favorable terms or may not be replaced.. The significant operating agreements and leases of the Company in its various businesses expire at various points in the future and may not be replaced or could be replaced on less favorable terms, thereby adversely affecting the Company's future financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. The Company may face unexpected drydock or repair costs for its vessels.. We routinely engage shipyards to drydock our vessels for regulatory compliance and to provide repair and maintenance.  Vessels may also have to be drydocked or repaired at sea in the event of accidents or other unforeseen damage.  The cost of repairs are difficult to predict with certainty and can be substantial.  Large drydocking and other repair expenses could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and cash flows.  In addition, the time when a vessel is out of service for maintenance is determined by a number of factors, including regulatory deadlines, market conditions, shipyard availability and customer requirements, and accordingly, the length of time that a vessel may be out of service may be longer than anticipated, which could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. If we are not able to use our information technology and communications systems effectively, our ability to conduct business might be negatively impacted.. The Company is highly dependent on the proper functioning of our information technology systems to enable operations and compete effectively.  Our information technology systems rely on third-party service providers for access to the Internet, satellite-based communications systems, the electric grid, database storage facilities and telecommunications providers.  We have no control over the operations of these third-party service providers.  If our information technology and communications systems experience reliability issues, integration or compatibility concerns or if our third-party providers are unable to perform effectively or experience disruptions or failures, there could be an adverse impact on the availability and functioning of our information technology and communications systems, which could lead to business disruption or inefficiencies, reputational harm or loss of customers that could have an adverse effect on our business.. Our information technology systems may be exposed to cybersecurity risks and other disruptions that could impair the Company's ability to operate and adversely affect its business.. The Company relies extensively on its information technology systems and third-party service providers including cloud services for accounting, billing, disbursement, cargo booking and tracking, vessel scheduling and stowage, equipment tracking, customer service, banking, payroll and employee communication systems.  The Company also collects, stores and transmits sensitive data, including its proprietary business information and that of its customers, and personally identifiable information of its customers and employees.  Despite our continuous efforts to make investments in our information technology systems and system-wide data security program, the implementation of security measures to protect our data and infrastructure against breaches and other cyber threats, and our use of internal processes and. 15. Table of Contents. controls designed to protect the security and availability of our systems, our information technology and communication systems may be vulnerable to cybersecurity risks such as computer viruses, hacking, malware, denial of service attacks, cyber terrorism, circumvention of security systems, malfeasance, breaches due to employee error, natural disasters, telecommunications failure, or other catastrophic events at the Company's facilities, aboard its vessels or at third-party locations.. Any failure, breach or unauthorized access to the Company's or third-party systems could result in the loss of confidential, sensitive or proprietary information, interruptions in its service or production or otherwise impact our ability to conduct business operations, and could result in potential reductions in revenue and profits, damage to its reputation or liability.. Loss of the Company's key personnel could adversely affect its business.. The Company's future success will depend, in significant part, upon the continued services of its key personnel, including its senior management and skilled employees.  The loss of the services of key personnel could adversely affect the Company's future operating results because of such employees' experience and knowledge of the Company's business and customer relationships.  If key employees depart, the Company may incur significant costs to replace them.  Additionally, the Company's ability to execute its business model could be impaired if it cannot replace them in a timely manner.  The Company does not maintain key person insurance on any of its key personnel.. The Company is involved in a joint venture and is subject to risks associated with joint venture relationships.. The Company is involved in a terminal joint venture, SSAT (and through SSAT, other joint ventures at U.S. West Coast terminals), and may initiate future joint venture projects.  A joint venture involves certain risks such as:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe Company may not have voting control over the joint venture;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe Company may not be able to maintain good relationships with its joint venture partner;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tA joint venture partner at any time may have economic or business interests that are inconsistent with the Company's;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tA joint venture partner may fail to fund its share of capital for operations or to fulfill its other commitments, including providing accurate and timely accounting and financial information to the Company;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe joint venture may experience operating difficulties and financial losses, which may lead to asset write-downs or impairment charges that could negatively impact the operating results of the joint venture and the Company;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe joint venture or venture partner could lose key personnel;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tA joint venture partner could become bankrupt requiring the Company to assume all risks and capital requirements related to the joint venture project, and the related bankruptcy proceedings could have an adverse impact on the operation of the partnership or joint venture; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tActions of the joint venture may result in reputational harm to the Company.. In addition, the Company relies on the terminal joint venture, SSAT, and SSA for its stevedoring services at the ports of Long Beach and Oakland, California, and Seattle and Tacoma, Washington on the U.S. West Coast.  The Company could be adversely affected by any changes in the services provided, or to the costs of such services provided by the Company's terminal joint venture, SSAT, and SSA.. The Company is subject to risks associated with conducting business in foreign shipping markets.. Matson's China, Micronesia, Japan and South Pacific services are subject to risks associated with conducting business in a foreign shipping market, which include:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tChallenges associated with operating in foreign countries and doing business and developing relationships with foreign companies;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tChallenges in working with and maintaining good relationships with business associates in our foreign operations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tDifficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tOur ability to be in compliance with U.S. and foreign legal and regulatory restrictions, including compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and foreign laws that prohibit corrupt payments to government officials;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tGlobal vessel overcapacity that may lead to decreases in volumes and shipping rates;. 16. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tNot having continued access to existing port facilities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tCompetition with established and new carriers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tChanges in vessel deployment by competitors that impact the Company's services;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tCurrency exchange rate fluctuations and our ability to manage these fluctuations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tPolitical and economic instability;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tProtectionist measures including the imposition of tariffs that may affect the Company's operation of its wholly-owned foreign enterprise; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tChallenges caused by cultural differences.. Any of these risks has the potential to adversely affect the Company's operating results.. The Company's Logistics segment is dependent upon third-parties for equipment, capacity and services essential to operate its business, and if the Company fails to secure sufficient third-party services, its business could be adversely affected.. The Company's Logistics segment is dependent upon rail, truck and ocean transportation services provided by independent third-parties.  If the Company cannot secure sufficient transportation equipment, capacity or services from these third-parties at reasonable rates to meet its customers' needs and schedules, customers may seek to have their transportation and logistics needs met by other third-parties on a temporary or permanent basis.  As a result, the Company's business, consolidated results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. The Company is subject to risks related to a marine accident or spill event.. The Company's vessel and terminal operations could be faced with a maritime accident, oil or other spill, or other environmental mishap.  Such event may lead to personal injury, loss of life, damage of property, pollution and suspension of operations.  As a result, such event could have an adverse effect on the Company's business.. The Company's Shipbuilding Agreements with Philly Shipyard and NASSCO are subject to risks.. On November 6, 2013, MatNav and Philly Shipyard entered into definitive agreements pursuant to which Philly Shipyard will construct two new 3,600-TEU Aloha Class dual-fuel capable containerships, with expected delivery dates during the third quarter of 2018 and the first quarter of 2019.  On August 25, 2016, MatNav and NASSCO entered into definitive agreements pursuant to which NASSCO will construct two new 3,500-TEU Kanaloa Class dual-fuel capable container and roll-on/roll-off vessels, with expected delivery dates at the end of 2019 and mid-2020.  Failure of any party to the shipbuilding agreements to fulfill its obligations under the agreements could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial position and results of operations.  Such a failure could happen for a variety of reasons, including but not limited to (i) delivery delays, (ii) delivery of vessels that fail to meet any of the required operating specifications (for example, capacity, fuel efficiency or speed), (iii) events in Korea which prevent one or more significant subcontractors to each of, Philly Shipyard or NASSCO from performing, or (iv) the insolvency of, or the refusal or inability to perform for any reason, by Philly Shipyard, NASSCO, or any of their respective subcontractors.  Significant delays in the delivery of the new vessels could limit our ability to replace aging steamships without substantial modifications, which could also have an adverse impact on our business plans, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company's terminals in Hawaii and Alaska require modernization.. We have purchased three new gantry cranes and are upgrading three existing cranes as part of a broader project to expand and improve the Company's Sand Island terminal in Honolulu Harbor.  We have also begun discussions with state and local authorities in Anchorage, Alaska regarding upgrades to those terminal and port facilities.  Regulatory, construction or other delays or cost overruns related to the modernization of the terminals could have an adverse impact on our business plans, financial condition and results of operations.. 17. Table of Contents. Heightened security measures, war, actual or threatened terrorist attacks, efforts to combat terrorism and other acts of violence may adversely impact the Company's operations and profitability.. War, terrorist attacks and other acts of violence may cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease, or may affect the ability or willingness of tourists to travel to Hawaii, Guam or Alaska, thereby adversely affecting those economies and the Company.  Additionally, future terrorist attacks could increase volatility in the U.S. and worldwide financial markets.  Acts of war or terrorism may be directed at the Company's shipping operations, or may cause the U.S. government to take control of Matson's vessels for military operation.  Heightened security measures potentially slow the movement and increase the cost of freight through U.S. or foreign ports, across borders or on U.S. or foreign railroads or highways and could adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations.. Acquisitions may have an adverse effect on the Company's business.. The Company's growth strategy includes expansion through acquisitions.  Acquisitions may result in difficulties in assimilating acquired assets or companies, and may result in the diversion of the Company's capital and its management attention from other business issues and opportunities.  The Company may not be able to integrate companies that it acquires successfully, including their personnel, financial systems, distribution, operations and general operating procedures.  The Company may also encounter challenges in achieving appropriate internal control over financial reporting in connection with the integration of an acquired company.  The Company may pay a premium for an acquisition, resulting in goodwill that may later be determined to be impaired, adversely affecting the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The Horizon and Span Alaska Acquisitions may expose us to unknown liabilities.. We acquired Horizon subject to all of the liabilities and obligations of its non-Hawaii business, including any remaining liabilities and obligations associated with its Puerto Rico operations, which Horizon ceased during the first quarter of 2015.  Similarly, in August 2016, we acquired Span Alaska subject to all of its liabilities and obligations.  The disposition of these liabilities, and any other obligations that are unknown to the Company, including contingent liabilities, could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. We may continue to be exposed to risks and liabilities related to Horizon's former Hawaii business.. Pasha acquired Horizon's former Hawaii business immediately before we acquired Horizon, and Pasha assumed substantially all liabilities and obligations related to Horizon's Hawaii business and agreed to perform various covenants.  In some cases however, Horizon, as the original contracting party, may remain primarily responsible for such assumed Hawaii liabilities and obligations.  The Company may incur losses related to such assumed Hawaii liabilities and obligations.. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if recorded intangible assets associated with the Horizon and Span Alaska Acquisitions became impaired.. We recorded significant intangible assets related to goodwill and customer relationships arising from the Horizon and Span Alaska acquisitions.  We are required to test goodwill for impairment annually, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount.  Factors that could lead to an impairment of goodwill or intangible customer relationships include any significant adverse changes affecting the reporting unit's financial condition, results of operations, and future cash flows.. Risks Relating to Financial Matters. A deterioration of the Company's credit profile or disruptions of the credit markets could restrict its ability to access the debt capital markets or increase the cost of debt.. Deterioration in the Company's credit profile may have an adverse effect on the Company's ability to access the private or public debt markets and also may increase its borrowing costs.  If the Company's credit profile deteriorates significantly, its access to the debt capital markets or its ability to renew its committed lines of credit may become restricted, or the Company may not be able to refinance debt at the same levels or on the same terms.  Because the Company relies on its ability to draw on its revolving credit facilities to support its operations, when required, any. 18. Table of Contents. volatility in the credit and financial markets that prevents the Company from accessing funds (for example, a lender that does not fulfill its lending obligation) could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and cash flows.  Additionally, the Company's credit agreements generally include an increase in borrowing rates if the Company's credit profile deteriorates.  Furthermore, the Company incurs interest under its revolving credit facilities based on floating rates.  Floating rate debt creates higher debt service requirements if market interest rates increase, which would adversely affect the Company's cash flow and results of operations.. Failure to comply with certain restrictive financial covenants contained in the Company's credit facilities could preclude the payment of dividends, impose restrictions on the Company's business segments, capital resources or other activities or otherwise adversely affect the Company.. The Company's credit facilities contain certain restrictive financial covenants, the most restrictive of which include a maximum ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (\"EBITDA\"), a minimum ratio of EBITDA to interest expense, the maintenance of no more than a maximum amount of priority debt as a percentage of consolidated tangible assets, and the maintenance of minimum shareholders' equity.  If the Company does not maintain these and other required covenants, and a breach of such covenants is not cured timely or waived by the lenders resulting in a default, the Company's access to credit may be limited or terminated, dividends may be suspended, and the lenders could declare any outstanding amounts due and payable.  The Company's continued ability to borrow under its credit facilities is subject to compliance with these financial and other non-financial covenants.. The Company's effective income tax rate may vary.. Various internal and external factors may have favorable or unfavorable, material or immaterial effects on the Company's effective income tax rate and, therefore, impact the Company's net income and earnings per share.  These factors include, but are not limited to changes in tax rates; changes in tax laws including the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted on December 22, 2017 (the \"Tax Act\"), regulations, and rulings; changes in interpretations of existing tax laws, regulations and rulings; changes in the evaluation of the Company's ability to realize deferred tax assets, and changes in uncertain tax positions; changes in accounting principles; changes in current pre-tax income as well as changes in forecasted pre-tax income; changes in the level of CCF deductions, non-deductible expenses, and expenses eligible for tax credits; changes in the mix of earnings among countries with varying tax rates; and acquisitions and changes in the Company's corporate structure.  These factors may result in periodic revisions to our effective income tax rate, which could affect the Company's cash flow and results of operations.. Changes in the value of pension assets, or a change in pension law or key assumptions, may adversely affect the Company's financial performance.. The amount of the Company's employee pension and post-retirement benefit costs and obligations are calculated on assumptions used in the relevant actuarial calculations.  Adverse changes in any of these assumptions due to economic or other factors, changes in discount rates, higher health care costs, or lower actual or expected returns on plan assets, may adversely affect the Company's operating results, cash flows, and financial condition.  In addition, a change in federal law, including changes to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act or Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation premiums, may adversely affect the Company's single-employer and multi-employer pension plans and plan funding.  These factors, as well as a decline in the fair value of pension plan assets, may put upward pressure on the cost of providing pension and medical benefits and may increase future pension expense and required funding contributions.  There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in limiting future cost and expense increases, and continued upward pressure in costs and expenses could further reduce the profitability of the Company's businesses.. The Company may have exposure under its multi-employer pension and post-retirement plans in which it participates that extends beyond its funding obligation with respect to the Company's employees.. The Company contributes to various multi-employer pension plans.  In the event of a partial or complete withdrawal by the Company from any plan that is underfunded, the Company would be liable for a proportionate share of such plan's unfunded vested benefits (See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II below).  Based on the limited information available from plan administrators, which the Company cannot independently validate, the Company believes that its portion of the contingent liability in the case of a full withdrawal or termination may be material to its financial position and results of operations.  If any other contributing employer withdraws from any plan that is underfunded, and such employer (or any member of its controlled group) cannot satisfy its obligations under the. 19. Table of Contents. plan at the time of withdrawal, then the Company, along with the other remaining contributing employers, would be liable for its proportionate share of such plan's unfunded vested benefits.  In addition, if a multi-employer plan fails to satisfy the minimum funding requirements, the Internal Revenue Service will impose certain penalties and taxes.. Risks Relating to Legal and Legislative Matters. Compliance with safety and environmental protection and other governmental requirements may adversely affect our operations.. The shipping industry in general, our business and the operation of our vessels and terminals in particular are affected by extensive and changing safety, environmental protection and other international, national, State and local governmental laws and regulations, including the following: laws pertaining to air emissions; wastewater discharges; the transportation, handling and disposal of solid and hazardous materials, oil and oil-related products, hazardous substances and wastes; the investigation and remediation of contamination; and health, safety and the protection of the environment and natural resources.  For example, our U.S. flagged vessels generally must be maintained \"in class\" and are subject to periodic inspections by the American Bureau of Shipping or similar classification societies, and must be periodically inspected by, or on behalf of, the United States Coast Guard.  Federal environmental laws and certain State laws require us, as a vessel operator, to comply with numerous environmental regulations and to obtain certificates of financial responsibility and to adopt procedures for oil and hazardous substance spill prevention, response and clean up.. In complying with these laws, we have incurred expenses and may incur future expenses for vessel modifications, changes in operating procedures and undergoing additional oversight inspections.  Changes in enforcement policies for existing requirements and additional laws and regulations adopted in the future could limit our ability to do business or further increase the cost of our doing business.  Our vessels' operating certificates and licenses are renewed periodically during the required annual surveys of the vessels.  However, there can be no assurance that such certificates and licenses will be renewed, even though Matson maintains extensive programs and policies to ensure such renewal.  Also, in the future, we may have to alter existing equipment, add new equipment, or change operating procedures for our vessels to comply with changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards to meet our customers' changing needs.  If any such costs are material, they could adversely affect our financial condition.. We are subject to regulation and liability under environmental laws that could result in substantial fines and penalties that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. The U.S. Act to Prevent Pollution from vessels, which implements the International Maritime Pollution (MARPOL) treaty, and the Oil Pollution Action of 1990 (OPA-90), among many other laws, treaties and regulations, provides for severe civil and criminal penalties related to vessel-generated pollution for incidents in U.S. waters within three nautical miles and in some cases within the 200-mile exclusive economic zone.  The EPA requires vessels to obtain coverage under a general permit and to comply with inspection, monitoring, discharge, recordkeeping and reporting requirements.  Matson's vessels operate within sulfur emission control areas (SECAs) or emission control areas (ECAs).  If our vessels are not operated in accordance with these requirements, including waivers, permits or record keeping and other reporting requirements, such violations could result in substantial fines or penalties that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our business.. The Company is subject to, and may in the future be subject to disputes, legal or other proceedings, and government inquiries or investigations that could have an adverse effect on the Company.. The nature of the Company's business exposes it to the potential for disputes, legal or other proceedings, and government inquiries or investigations, relating to antitrust matters, labor and employment matters, personal injury and property damage, environmental and other matters, as discussed in the other risk factors disclosed in this section or in other Company filings with the SEC.  For example, Matson is a common carrier, whose tariffs, rates, rules and practices in dealing with its customers are governed by extensive and complex foreign, federal, state and local regulations, which may be the subject of disputes or administrative or judicial proceedings.  If these disputes develop into proceedings, these proceedings, individually or collectively, could involve or result in significant expenditures or losses by the Company, or result in significant changes to Matson's tariffs, rates, rules and practices in dealing with its customers, all of which could have an adverse effect on the Company's future operating results, including profitability, cash flows, and financial condition.. 20. Table of Contents. Repeal, substantial amendment, or waiver of the Jones Act or its application would have an adverse effect on the Company's business.. If the Jones Act was to be repealed, substantially amended, or waived and, as a consequence, competitors were to enter the Hawaii or Alaska markets with lower operating costs by utilizing their ability to acquire and operate foreign-flag and foreign-built vessels, the Company's business would be adversely affected.  In addition, the Company's advantage as a U.S. citizen operator of Jones Act vessels could be eroded by periodic efforts and attempts by foreign interests to circumvent certain aspects of the Jones Act.  If maritime cabotage services were included in the General Agreement on Trade in Services, the North American Free Trade Agreement or other international trade agreements, or if the restrictions contained in the Jones Act were otherwise altered, the shipping of cargo between covered U.S. ports could be opened to foreign-flag or foreign-built vessels.. Non-compliance with, or changes to, federal, state or local law or regulations, including passage of climate change legislation or regulation, may adversely affect the Company's business.. The Company is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations, including cabotage laws, government rate regulations, and environmental regulations including those relating to air quality initiatives at port locations, including but not limited to, the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation & Liability Act of 1980, the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1899, the Clean Water Act, the Invasive Species Act and the Clean Air Act.  Continued compliance with these laws and regulations may result in additional costs and changes in operating procedures that may adversely affect the Company's business.  Non-compliance with, or changes to, the laws and regulations governing the Company's business could impose significant additional costs on the Company and adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, changes in environmental laws impacting the business, including passage of climate change legislation or other regulatory initiatives that restrict emissions of greenhouse gasses such as a \"cap and trade\" system of allowances and credits, if enacted, may require costly vessel modifications, the use of higher-priced fuel and changes in operating practices that may not be recoverable through increased payments from customers.  Further changes to these laws and regulations could adversely affect the Company.. Risks Related to Capital Structure. The Company's business could be adversely affected if the Company were determined not to be a U.S. citizen under the Jones Act.. Certain provisions of the Company's articles of incorporation protect the Company's ability to maintain its status as a U.S. citizen under the Jones Act.  Although the Company is a U.S. citizen under the Jones Act, if non-U.S. citizens were able to defeat such articles of incorporation restrictions and own in the aggregate more than 25 percent of the Company's common stock, the Company would no longer be considered as a U.S. citizen under the Jones Act.  Such an event could result in the Company's ineligibility to engage in coastwise trade and the imposition of substantial penalties against it, including seizure or forfeiture of its vessels, which could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operation."                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
