[1] "Item 1A.   Risk Factors. An investment in our securities is subject to risks inherent in our business.  Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included in this report.  In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  The value or market price of our securities could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. A substantial portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate.  Deterioration in the real estate markets or other segments of our loan portfolio could lead to losses, which could have a material negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, excluding purchased credit-impaired loans, approximately 44% of our total loan portfolio was secured by real estate, a majority of which is commercial real estate.. Our commercial real estate portfolio consists of health care, industrial, multifamily, office, retail, church and school loans.  Our concentration in commercial real estate loans involves additional risk as the values of the properties securing the loans can decline.  In addition, vacancy rates can increase, resulting in lower cash flows on the underlying properties and stress on our customer's ability to repay their loans.. At December 31, 2017, excluding purchased credit-impaired loans, our commercial real estate loans totaled $4.1 billion, or 30% of our total loan portfolio. This loan type represented approximately 28% of our total non-performing loans as of December 31, 2017.. We originate fixed and adjustable rate loans secured by one- to four-family residential real estate.  Our general practice is to sell a majority of our newly originated fixed-rate residential real estate loans and to hold in portfolio a majority of our newly originated adjustable-rate residential real estate loans with 15 and 30 year maturities.  Our portfolio also includes home equity lines of credit and fixed-rate second mortgage loans.  Home equity lines of credit are generally extended up to 80% of the value of the property, less existing liens.  Terms for second mortgages typically range from five to ten years.. This type of real estate lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict.  Our non-performing consumer related loans were $32.4 million, or 55% of our total non-performing loans, as of December 31, 2016 compared to $37.1 million, or 48% of our total non-performing loans, as of December 31, 2017.  Non-performing home equity and residential real estate loans together accounted for 91% of the consumer related non-performing loans as of December 31, 2017.. A weak real estate market could result in additional charge-offs and provisions for loan losses, which could have a material negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Repayment of our commercial loans and lease loans is often dependent on the cash flows of the borrower or lessee, which may be unpredictable, and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value.. We make our commercial loans primarily based on the identified cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. Collateral securing commercial loans may depreciate over time, be difficult to appraise and fluctuate in value. In the case of loans secured by accounts receivable, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to collect the amounts due from its customers. Accordingly, we make our commercial loans primarily based on the historical and expected cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on underlying collateral provided by the borrower.  At December 31, 2017, our commercial loans totaled $4.8 billion, or 34% of our total loan portfolio. This loan type represented approximately 23% of our total non-performing loans as of December 31, 2017.. We lend money to small and mid-sized independent lessors to finance the debt portion of leases. A lease loan arises when a lessor discounts the equipment rental revenue stream owed to the lessor by a lessee. Our lease loans entail many of the same types of risks as our commercial loans. Lease loans generally are non-recourse to the leasing company, and, consequently, our recourse is limited to the lessee and the leased equipment. As with commercial loans secured by equipment, the equipment securing our lease loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value. We rely on the lessee's continuing financial stability, rather than the value of the leased equipment, for the repayment of all required amounts under lease loans. In the event of a default on a lease loan, it is unlikely that the proceeds from the sale of the leased equipment will be sufficient to satisfy the. 16. outstanding unpaid amounts under the terms of the loan.    At December 31, 2017, our lease loans totaled $2.1 billion, or 15% of our total loan portfolio. This loan type represented approximately 1% of our total non-performing loans as of December 31, 2017.. Changes in economic conditions, particularly an economic slowdown in the Chicago area and state of Illinois, could hurt our business.. Our business is directly affected by market conditions, trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, and changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control.  Deterioration in economic conditions, particularly within the Chicago area, could result in the following consequences, among others, any of which could hurt our business materially:. • loan delinquencies may increase;. • problem assets and foreclosures may increase;. • demand for our products and services may decline;. • collateral for our loans may decline in value, in turn reducing a customer's borrowing power; and. • the net worth and liquidity of loan guarantors may decline, impairing their ability to honor commitments to us.. Our lending and deposit gathering activities are mostly concentrated in the Chicago metropolitan area.  Our success depends on the general economic conditions of this metropolitan area and throughout Illinois.  Our nationwide activities include: leasing and lease loans, asset-based lending, indirect lending, mortgage banking, and certain treasury management services.. Both the State of Illinois and the City of Chicago currently face significant fiscal challenges, including large budget deficits, substantial unfunded pension obligations and low credit ratings, which could negatively impact us to the extent this leads to declines in business activity and overall economic conditions in Illinois and the Chicago metropolitan area.  In addition, until July 2017, the State of Illinois operated without a budget for more than two years, which in some cases led to the State not meeting its financial obligations in a timely manner.  Some of our commercial loan borrowers are health care operators and service providers who may be dependent on the receipt of contractual payments and reimbursements from the State of Illinois for services rendered.  To the extent the State delays or suspends these payments and reimbursements, this could adversely affect the ability of borrowers to meet their loan repayment obligations to us. Any resulting delinquencies and defaults on these loans would in turn adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Many of the loans in our portfolio are secured by real estate. Many of these loans are secured by properties located in the Chicago metropolitan area. Deterioration in the real estate markets where collateral for a mortgage loan is located could negatively affect the borrower's ability to repay the loan and the value of the collateral securing the loan. Real estate values are affected by various other factors, including changes in general or regional economic conditions, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters such as tornadoes.. Negative changes in the regional and general economy could reduce our growth rate, impair our ability to collect loans and generally have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our allowance for loan and lease losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio.. Lending money is a substantial part of our business. Every loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things:. • cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed;. • changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral, in the case of a collateralized loan;. • credit experience of a particular borrower;. • changes in economic and industry conditions; and. • duration of the loan.. We maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses, a reserve established through a provision for credit losses charged to expense, which we believe is appropriate to provide for probable losses in our loan portfolio. The amount of this allowance is determined by our management through a periodic review and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to:. • our general reserve, based on our historical default and loss experience as well as current macroeconomic factors; and. • our specific reserve, based on our evaluation of non-performing loans and their underlying collateral.. 17. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan and lease losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan and lease losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan and lease losses, we may need additional provisions to replenish the allowance for loan and lease losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan and lease losses will result in a decrease in net income and, most likely, capital, and may have a material negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to information security, recovery, and other risks in connection with our use of technology.. Our security measures may not be sufficient to mitigate the risk of a cyber attack or cyber theft.. Communications and information systems are essential to the conduct of our business, as we use such systems to manage our customer relationships, our general ledger, and virtually all other aspects of our business. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage, and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks as well as by our third party providers to whom we have outsourced certain data processing and other operational functions.  Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, the security of our computer systems, software, and networks may be vulnerable to breaches, unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses, or other malicious code and cyber attacks that could have a security impact.  If one or more of these events occur, this could jeopardize our or our customers' confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations or the operations of our customers or counterparties. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us.  We could also suffer significant reputational damage.. Security breaches in our internet banking activities could further expose us to possible liability and damage our reputation.  Any compromise of our security also could deter customers from using our internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information.  We rely on standard (or typical industry) internet security measures/protocols or frameworks to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures, which could result in significant legal liability and significant damage to our reputation and our business.. Our security measures may not protect us from systems failures or interruptions.. While we have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of systems failures and interruptions, there can be no assurance that such events will not occur or that they will be adequately addressed if they do. In addition, we outsource certain aspects of our data processing and other operational functions to certain third-party providers. If our third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if we have difficulty in communicating with them, our ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely impacted. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel.. The occurrence of any systems failure or interruption could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business, could subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose us to legal liability.  Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to certain risks in connection with our data management or aggregation.. We are reliant on our ability to manage data and our ability to aggregate data in an accurate and timely manner to ensure effective risk reporting and management.  Our ability to manage data and aggregate data may be limited by the effectiveness of our policies, programs, processes and practices that govern how data is acquired, validated, stored, protected and processed. While we continuously update our policies, programs, processes and practices, many of our data management and aggregation processes are manual and subject to human error or system failure.  Failure to manage data effectively and to aggregate data in an accurate and timely manner may limit our ability to manage current and emerging risks, as well as to manage changing business needs.. 18. Conditions in the financial markets may limit our access to additional funding to meet our liquidity needs.. Liquidity is essential to our business, as we must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale or pledging as collateral of loans and other assets could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could negatively affect our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or negative regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as severe disruption of the financial markets or negative news and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole, as evidenced by recent turmoil in the domestic and worldwide credit markets.. Our wholesale funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits or support our future growth.. As a part of our liquidity management, we use a number of funding sources in addition to core deposit growth and repayments and maturities of loans and investments. These sources include brokered certificates of deposit, repurchase agreements, federal funds purchased and Federal Home Loan Bank advances. Negative operating results or changes in industry conditions could lead to an inability to replace these additional funding sources at maturity. Our financial flexibility could be constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our results of operations and financial condition would be negatively affected.. Our mortgage business may increase volatility in our consolidated revenues and earnings and our residential mortgage lending profitability could be significantly reduced if we are not able to originate and sell mortgage loans at profitable margins.. We significantly increased our mortgage business as a result of our acquisition of Taylor Capital's mortgage business in the Taylor Capital merger, which we completed in 2014, and transferred approximately 165 residential mortgage team members from Busey Bank to our company in December 2017.  As a result of the factors set forth below with respect to our mortgage business, we could experience significant volatility in our consolidated revenue and consolidated net income.. Mortgage production, especially refinancing, generally declines in rising interest rate environments. We have experienced historically low interest rates in recent years but have started to increase in 2017.  When interest rates rise, or even if they do not, there can be no assurance that our mortgage production will continue at current levels.  Because we sell a substantial portion of the mortgage loans we originate, the profitability of our mortgage banking operations depends in large part upon our ability to aggregate a high volume of loans and sell them in the secondary market at a gain.  Thus, in addition to the interest rate environment, our mortgage business is dependent upon (i) the existence of an active secondary market and (ii) our ability to profitably sell loans into that market.  The loans in our held for sale portfolio are carried at fair market value with changes recognized in our statement of operations.  Carrying the loans at fair value may also increase the volatility in our earnings.. Our ability to sell mortgage loans readily is dependent upon the availability of an active secondary market for single-family mortgage loans, which in turn depends in part upon the continuation of programs currently offered by the government sponsored enterprises (\"GSEs\") and other institutional and non-institutional investors. These entities account for a substantial portion of the secondary market in residential mortgage loans. Because the largest participants in the secondary market are GSEs whose activities are governed by federal law, any future changes in laws that significantly affect them could, in turn, materially and adversely affect us. The impact on us of existing proposals to reform Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which were placed into conservatorship in 2008, is difficult to predict. In addition, our ability to sell mortgage loans readily is dependent upon our ability to remain eligible for the programs offered by GSEs and other market participants. Our ability to remain eligible to originate and securitize government insured loans may also depend on our having an acceptable delinquency ratio for Federal Housing Administration loans relative to our peers.. Any significant impairment of our eligibility to participate in the programs offered by the GSEs could materially and adversely affect us. Further, the criteria for loans to be accepted under such programs may be changed from time-to-time by the sponsoring entity which could result in a lower volume of corresponding loan originations or other administrative costs.. 19. Changes in interest rates may change the value of our mortgage servicing rights portfolio which may increase the volatility of our earnings and negatively impact regulatory capital.. As a result of our mortgage servicing business, we have a sizable portfolio of mortgage servicing rights. A mortgage servicing right is the right to service a mortgage loan - collect principal, interest and escrow amounts - for a fee. We invest in mortgage servicing rights to support mortgage banking strategies and diversify revenue streams from our Mortgage Banking Segment.. We measure and carry all of our residential mortgage servicing rights using the fair value measurement method. Fair value is determined as the present value of estimated future net servicing income, calculated based on a number of variables, including assumptions about the likelihood of prepayment by borrowers as well as delinquencies.. The primary risk associated with mortgage servicing rights is that in a declining interest rate environment, they will likely lose a substantial portion of their value as a result of higher than anticipated prepayments. Moreover, if prepayments are greater than expected, the cash we receive over the life of the mortgage loans would be reduced. Conversely, these assets generally increase in value in a rising interest rate environment to the extent that prepayments are slower than previously estimated. Although we invest in mortgage servicing rights to diversify the revenue streams from our Mortgage Banking Segment, the increasing size of our mortgage servicing rights portfolio may increase our interest rate risk and correspondingly, the volatility of our earnings, especially if we cannot adequately hedge the interest rate risk relating to our mortgage servicing rights.. At December 31, 2017, our mortgage servicing rights had a fair value of $276.3 million compared to $238.0 million at December 31, 2016.  Changes in fair value of our mortgage servicing rights are recorded to earnings in each period. Depending on the interest rate environment, it is possible that the fair value of our mortgage servicing rights may be reduced in the future. If such changes in fair value significantly reduce the carrying value of our mortgage servicing rights, our financial condition and results of operations would be negatively affected.. The Basel III Rule requires deductions from Common Equity Tier 1 Capital in the event mortgage servicing rights exceed a certain percentage of a bank's Common Equity Tier 1 threshold.. Certain hedging strategies that we use to manage investment in mortgage servicing rights, mortgage loans held for sale and interest rate lock commitments may be ineffective to offset any adverse changes in the fair value of these assets due to changes in interest rates and market liquidity.. We use derivative instruments to economically hedge mortgage servicing rights, mortgage loans held for sale and interest rate lock commitments to offset changes in fair value resulting from changing interest rate environments. Our hedging strategies are susceptible to prepayment risk, basis risk, market volatility and changes in the shape of the yield curve, among other factors. In addition, hedging strategies rely on assumptions and projections regarding assets and general market factors. If these assumptions and projections prove to be incorrect or our hedging strategies do not adequately mitigate the impact of changes in interest rates, we may incur losses that would adversely impact earnings.. Our mortgage loan representation and warranty reserve for losses could be insufficient.. We currently maintain a representation and warranty reserve, which is a liability on our consolidated balance sheets, to reflect our best estimate of expected losses that we will incur on loans that we have sold or securitized into the secondary market and must subsequently repurchase or with respect to which we must indemnify the purchasers and insurers because of violations of customary representations and warranties.  Increases to this reserve for current loan sales reduce mortgage banking revenue. The level of the reserve reflects management's continuing evaluation of loss experience on repurchased loans, indemnifications and present economic conditions, as well as the actions of loan purchasers and guarantors. The determination of the appropriate level of the mortgage loan representation and warranty reserve inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make estimates of repurchase risks and expected losses subsequently experienced. Both the assumptions and estimates used could be inaccurate, resulting in a level of reserve that is less than actual losses. If additional reserves are required, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Representation and warranty reserves were $7.0 million as of December 31, 2017.. A significant increase in certain loan balances associated with our mortgage business may result in liquidity risk related to the funding of these loans.. The held for sale loan balance in our mortgage business represents mortgage loans that are in the process of being sold to various investors. Loan balances steadily accumulate and then decrease at the time of sale. We fund these balances through short term funding, primarily through Federal Home Loan Bank (\"FHLB\") advances, which require collateral. In the event that we experience. 20. a significant increase in our held for sale loan balances, our liquidity could be negatively impacted as we increase our short term borrowings and therefore our required collateral. Although we have access to other sources of contingent liquidity, we could be materially and adversely affected if we fail to effectively manage this risk.. Changes in interest rates may reduce our net interest income, and may result in higher defaults in a rising rate environment.. Our consolidated operating results are largely dependent on our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and interest expense incurred on deposits and other borrowings. Our net interest income is impacted by changes in market rates of interest, changes in credit spreads, changes in the shape of the yield curve, the interest rate sensitivity of our assets and liabilities, prepayments on our loans and investments, and the mix of our funding sources and assets, among other things.. Our interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities may react in different degrees to changes in market interest rates. Interest rates on some types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate prior to changes in broader market interest rates, while rates on other types may lag behind. The result of these changes to rates may cause differing spreads on interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities. While we take measures intended to manage the risks from changes in market interest rates, we cannot control or accurately predict changes in market rates of interest or be sure our protective measures are adequate.. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other interest bearing liabilities increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other interest earning assets, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected.  As a result of the relatively low interest rate environment, an increasing percentage of our deposits have been comprised of deposits bearing no or a relatively low rate of interest.  We would incur a higher cost of funds to retain these deposits in a rising interest rate environment.  In addition, a substantial portion of our loans (approximately 62% of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2017) have adjustable interest rates.  While the higher payment amounts we would receive on these loans in a rising interest rate environment may increase our interest income, some borrowers may be unable to afford the higher payment amounts, which may result in a higher rate of default.  A portion of our adjustable rate loans have interest rate floors that are in-the-money and may not adjust upward immediately with increases in interest rates.  Rising interest rates also may reduce the demand for loans and the value of our fixed-rate investment securities.. Negative developments in the financial industry could adversely affect our industry and our business.. Negative developments in the financial industry and the impact of new legislation and regulations in response to those developments could restrict our business operations, including our ability to originate loans, and negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.. Fiscal challenges facing the U.S. government and the governments of other countries could have a material adverse impact on financial markets and economic conditions in the United States and worldwide, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. Many of our investment securities are issued by and some of our loans are made to the U.S. government and government agencies and sponsored entities.  Uncertain domestic political conditions, including prior federal government shutdowns and potential future federal government shutdowns, any future concerns regarding the possibility of the federal government defaulting on its obligations for a period of time due to potential future debt ceiling limitations or other unresolved political issues, may pose credit default and liquidity risks with respect to investments in financial instruments issued or guaranteed by the federal government and loans to the federal government.  Any downgrade in the sovereign credit rating of the United States, as well as sovereign debt issues facing the governments of other countries, could have a material adverse impact on financial markets and economic conditions in the United States and worldwide.  Any such adverse impact could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. The fair value of our investment securities can fluctuate due to market conditions outside of our control.. As of December 31, 2017, our investment securities portfolio contained 471 securities in an unrealized loss position (with total unrealized losses of $13.2 million as of that date), compared to 615 securities in an unrealized loss position as of December 31, 2016 (with total unrealized losses of $15.7 million as of that date).  Factors beyond our control can significantly influence the fair value of securities in our investment securities portfolio and can cause potential adverse changes to the fair value of these securities. These factors include but are not limited to rating agency downgrades of the securities, defaults by the issuer or with respect to the underlying securities, changes in market interest rates and instability in the credit markets. Any of these mentioned factors could cause an-other-than-temporary impairment or permanent impairment of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges. 21. which could have a material negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, we have a large longer term municipal security portfolio that would decline substantially in value if interest rates increase materially.. New or changing tax, accounting, and regulatory rules and interpretations could significantly impact strategic initiatives, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition.. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. Federal and state banking regulations are designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, not to benefit a company's stockholders. These regulations may sometimes impose significant limitations on operations. The significant federal and state banking regulations that affect us are described in this report under the heading \"Item 1. Business-Supervision and Regulation\". These regulations, along with the currently existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance, and monetary laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time.. New accounting standards may result in a significant change to the Company's recognition of credit losses and may materially impact the Company's financial condition or results of operations.. In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued new authoritative accounting guidance under ASC Topic 326 \"Financial Instruments - Credit Losses\" amending the incurred loss impairment methodology in current accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (\"GAAP\") with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses (referred to as the \"CECL model\") and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information for credit loss estimates, which goes into effect for the Company on January 1, 2020.  Under the incurred loss model, the Company delays recognition of losses until it is probable that a loss has been incurred. The CECL model represents a dramatic departure from the incurred loss model.  The CECL model requires a financial asset (or a group of financial assets) measured at amortized cost basis, such as loans held for investment and held-to-maturity debt securities, to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected (net of the allowance for credit losses).  Similarly, the credit losses relating to available-for-sale debt securities will be recorded through an allowance for credit losses rather than a write-down.  In addition, the measurement of expected credit losses will take place at the time the financial asset is first added to the balance sheet (with periodic updates thereafter) and will be based on relevant information about past events, including historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectability of the reported amount.. As such, the CECL model will materially impact how the Company determines its allowance for loan and lease losses and may require the Company to significantly increase its allowance for loan and lease losses.  Furthermore, the Company may experience more fluctuations in its allowance for loan and lease losses, which may be significant.  If the Company were required to materially increase its allowance for loan and lease losses, it may negatively impact the Company's financial condition and results of operations.   The Company is currently evaluating the new guidance and expects it to have an impact on the Company's statements of operations and financial condition, the significance of which is not yet known.  The Company expects the CECL model will require the Company to recognize a one-time cumulative adjustment to the Company's allowance for loan and lease losses in order to fully transition from the incurred loss model to the CECL model, which could negatively impact the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The recently enacted tax reform legislation is expected to have a significant impact on the Company, and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by the broader implications of the legislation.. H.R. 1, which was originally known as the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\" and was signed into law in December 2017, is expected to have a significant impact on our financial statements and customers.  It will take some time for us to analyze all of the implications of this legislation.  Although we realized a one-time tax benefit of $104.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2017 resulting from the revaluation of our deferred tax liabilities following the enactment of the legislation and generally benefit from the legislation's reduction in the Federal corporate income tax rate, a tax rate reduction potentially has broader implications for our operations, as the new rate could cause positive or negative effects on loan demand and on our pricing models, municipal bonds, tax credits, and other investments.  The interest deduction limitation implemented by the legislation could make some businesses and industries less inclined to borrow, potentially reducing demand for our commercial loan products.  Further, the legislation's limitation on the mortgage interest deduction and state and local tax deduction for individual taxpayers could increase the after-tax cost of owning a home for some of our potential and existing customers and potentially reduce demand for, or the individual size of, the residential mortgage loans we originate.. 22. Financial reform legislation has, among other things, tightened capital standards and resulted in new regulations that may increase our costs of operations.. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law.  This law significantly changes the bank regulatory structure and affects the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years.. Among the many requirements in the Dodd-Frank Act for banking regulations is the requirement for capital regulations.   Generally, trust preferred securities will no longer be eligible as Tier 1 capital.  See \"Item 1. Business--Supervision and Regulation--Capital Adequacy.\". The Dodd-Frank Act created the CFPB, which has broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The CFPB has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks, including the authority to prohibit \"unfair, deceptive or abusive\" acts and practices. The CFPB has examination and enforcement authority over all banks with more than $10 billion in assets.. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act increased the authority of the Federal Reserve Board to examine the Company and its non-bank subsidiaries and gave the Federal Reserve Board the authority to establish rules regarding interchange fees charged for an electronic debit transaction by a payment card issuer that, together with its affiliates, has assets of $10 billion or more, and to enforce a new statutory requirement that such fees be reasonable and proportional to the actual cost of a transaction to the issuer.  By regulation, the Federal Reserve Board has limited the fees for such a transaction to the sum of 21 cents plus five basis points times the value of the transaction, plus up to one cent for fraud prevention costs.. Certain aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act remain subject to rulemaking and will take effect over several years.  Compliance with this law and its implementing regulations has resulted, and will continue to result, in additional operating costs that could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition and results of operations.  For additional discussion of the Dodd-Frank Act, see \"Item 1. Business - Supervision and Regulation-Regulatory Reform.\". We are subject to federal and state fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to material penalties.. Federal and state fair lending laws and regulations, such as the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and the Fair Housing Act, impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. The Department of Justice, CFPB and other federal and state agencies are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution's performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation. A successful challenge to our performance under the fair lending laws and regulations could adversely impact our rating under the CRA and result in a wide variety of sanctions, including the required payment of damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, imposition of restrictions on merger and acquisition activity and restrictions on expansion activity, which could negatively impact our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.. Rulemaking changes implemented by the CFPB in particular are expected to result in higher regulatory and compliance costs that may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. As noted above, the Dodd-Frank Act created the CFPB, an independent federal agency with broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement powers under various federal consumer financial protection laws.  The CFPB's jurisdiction also extends to unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices.  The CFPB has examination and primary enforcement authority with respect to depository institutions with $10 billion or more in assets and their affiliates, their service providers and certain non-depository entities such as debt collectors and consumer reporting agencies.. Since its formation, the CFPB has finalized a number of significant rules that could have a significant impact on our business and the financial services industry more generally. In particular, as discussed above under \"Item 1. Business--Supervision and Regulation-Consumer Protection Laws,\" the CFPB has adopted rules impacting nearly every aspect of the lifecycle of a residential mortgage loan.  Among other things, the rules adopted by the CFPB require banks to: (i) develop and implement procedures to ensure compliance with an \"ability to repay\" test and identify whether a loan meets a new definition for a \"qualified mortgage,\" in which case a safe harbor or a rebuttable presumption exists (dependent on whether the loan is a higher priced covered transaction) that the creditor extending the loan has satisfied the ability to repay test; (ii) implement new or revised disclosures, policies and procedures for originating and servicing mortgages including, but not limited to, providing a written list of homeownership. 23. counseling organizations, early intervention with delinquent borrowers and specific loss mitigation procedures for loans secured by a borrower's principal residence; (iii) comply with additional restrictions on mortgage loan originator hiring and compensation; (iv) comply with new disclosure requirements and standards for appraisals and certain financial products; and (v) maintain escrow accounts for higher-priced mortgage loans for a longer period of time.  The rules include the TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosure (TRID) rules. The TRID rules contain requirements and disclosure forms that are required to be provided to borrowers.  The CFPB has also issued guidance which could significantly affect the automotive financing industry by subjecting indirect motorcycle and motorsport lenders, such as our subsidiary bank, to regulation as creditors under the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, which would make indirect lenders monitor and control certain credit policies and procedures undertaken by dealers.. Compliance with the rules and policies adopted by the CFPB may limit the products we may permissibly offer to some or all of our customers, or limit the terms on which those products may be issued, or may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business as previously conducted (including our residential mortgage and indirect lending businesses in particular). We may also be required to add compliance personnel or incur other significant compliance-related expenses. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or competitive position may be adversely affected as a result.. Non-compliance with the USA PATRIOT Act, Bank Secrecy Act, OFAC, or other laws and regulations could result in fines or sanctions.. The USA PATRIOT and Bank Secrecy Acts require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. If such activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file Suspicious Activity Reports with the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts as well as the customer's \"beneficial owners.\"  Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or sanctions. During the last several years, several banking institutions have received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations. Although we have developed policies and procedures designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations, no assurance can be given that these policies and procedures will be effective in preventing violations of these laws and regulations.. We provide treasury management services to money services businesses, which include check cashers, issuers/sellers of traveler's checks, money orders and stored value cards, and money transmitters.  Providing banking services to money service businesses exposes us to enhanced risks from noncompliance with a variety of laws and regulations.. We provide treasury management services to the check cashing industry, offering currency, check clearing, monetary instrument, depository and credit services.  We also provide treasury management services to money transmitters.  Financial institutions that open and maintain accounts for money services businesses are expected to apply the requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act and Bank Secrecy Act, as they do with all account holders, on a risk-assessed basis.  As with any category of account holder, there will be money services businesses that pose lower risk of money laundering or lack of compliance with other laws and regulations and those that pose a significant risk.  Providing treasury management services to money services businesses represent a significant compliance and regulatory risk, and failure to comply with all statutory and regulatory requirements could result in fines or sanctions.. Prepaid card products and services are subject to extensive regulatory supervision that create significant compliance and operating costs, as well as the risk of data breaches.. We offer prepaid gift and incentive cards to our customers.   Additionally, we provide sponsorship and issuing services to corporate clients who have developed and manage their own card programs for their customers.  Through these sponsorship and issuing relationships, we maintain the critical oversight and control responsibilities of the program, while our corporate clients take on various key management roles, including the marketing, processing and distribution of the cards. Our prepaid card products and our involvement with the card programs of our corporate clients subject us to certain risks.. Prepaid cards operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to extensive supervision and examination.   This regulatory environment includes an expectation of a comprehensive Bank Secrecy Acts/anti-money laundering oversight and monitoring program, as well as federal and state laws addressing consumer protection, escheatment, privacy and data protection.  Compliance with these laws and regulations are costly, challenging and require significant personnel resources.. The issuance and delivery of prepaid products depend on a variety of processing platforms, networks and third party service providers in order to transmit, store and communicate customer and transactional data.  If our systems, or the systems of one of our third party service providers were breached, critical data and information could be lost, compromised or misused.  These. 24. breaches may result in significant financial loss to customers and result in reputational damage to us and adversely affect our operating results.. Our operations rely on numerous external vendors.. We rely on numerous external vendors to provide us with products and services necessary to maintain our day-to-day operations.  Accordingly, our operations are exposed to risk that these vendors will not perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements. The failure of an external vendor to perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements because of changes in the vendor's organizational structure, financial condition, support for existing products and services or strategic focus or for any other reason, could be disruptive to our operations, which in turn could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations.   We also could be adversely affected to the extent such an agreement is not renewed by the third party vendor or is renewed on terms less favorable to us.. Significant legal actions could subject us to substantial liabilities.. We are from time to time subject to claims related to our operations. These claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. As a result, we may be exposed to substantial liabilities, which could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We pursue a strategy of supplementing internal growth by acquiring other financial companies or their assets and liabilities that we believe will help us fulfill our strategic objectives and enhance our earnings. There are risks associated with this strategy, including the following:. • We may be exposed to potential asset quality issues or unknown or contingent liabilities of the banks, businesses, assets, and liabilities we acquire. If these issues or liabilities exceed our estimates, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially negatively affected;. • Prices at which acquisitions can be made fluctuate with market conditions. We have experienced times during which acquisitions could not be made in specific markets at prices we considered acceptable and expect that we will experience this condition in the future;. • The acquisition of other entities generally requires integration of systems, procedures and personnel of the acquired entity into our company to make the transaction economically successful. This integration process is complicated and time consuming and can also be disruptive to the customers of the acquired business. If the integration process is not conducted successfully and with minimal effect on the acquired business and its customers, we may not realize the anticipated economic benefits of particular acquisitions within the expected time frame, and we may lose customers or employees of the acquired business. We may also experience greater than anticipated customer losses even if the integration process is successful;. • To the extent our costs of an acquisition exceed the fair value of the net assets acquired, the acquisition will generate goodwill.  As discussed below, we are required to assess our goodwill for impairment at least annually, and any goodwill impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition;. • To finance an acquisition, we may borrow funds, thereby increasing our leverage and diminishing our liquidity, or raise additional capital, which could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders; and. • We have completed various acquisitions in the past few years that enhanced our rate of growth.  We may not be able to continue to sustain our past rate of growth or to grow at all in the future.. New lines of business or new products and services may subject us to additional risks.. From time to time, we may seek to implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed.  In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services, we may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved, and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible, which could in turn have a material negative effect on our operating results.. 25. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry.. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of competitors. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive environment. To date, we have grown our business successfully by focusing on our business lines and emphasizing the high level of service and responsiveness desired by our customers. We compete for loans, deposits and other financial services with other commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions, brokerage houses, mutual funds, insurance companies and specialized finance companies. Many of our competitors offer products and services which we do not offer, and many have substantially greater resources and lending limits, name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, and smaller newer competitors may also be more aggressive in terms of pricing loan and deposit products than we are to obtain a share of the market. Some of the financial institutions and financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies, federally insured state-chartered banks and national banks and federal savings banks. In addition, increased competition among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies may negatively affect our ability to successfully market our products and services. As a result, these competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various services.. Our growth or future losses may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or the cost of that capital may be very high.. We are required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate that our capital resources will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point need to raise additional capital to support continued growth or losses, both internally and through acquisitions. Any capital we obtain may result in the dilution of the interests of our existing stockholders.. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time (which are outside our control) and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, we cannot make assurances of our ability to raise additional capital if needed, or if the terms will be acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired and our financial condition and liquidity could be materially and negatively affected.. The soundness of other financial institutions could negatively affect us.. Our ability to engage in routine funding and other transactions could be negatively affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. Defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and losses of depositor, creditor and counterparty confidence and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. We could experience increases in deposits and assets as a result of the difficulties or failures of other banks, which would increase the capital we need to support our growth.. The loss of certain key personnel could negatively affect our operations.. Our success depends in large part on the retention of a limited number of key management and other banking personnel. We could undergo a difficult transition period if we were to lose the services of any of these individuals. Our success also depends on the experience of our banking facilities' managers and bankers and on their relationships with the customers and communities they serve. The loss of these key persons could negatively impact the affected banking operations.. Any inaccurate assumptions in our analytical and forecasting models could cause us to miscalculate our projected revenue or losses, which could adversely affect the Company's statements of operations or financial condition.. We use analytical and forecasting models to estimate the effects of economic conditions on our financial assets and liabilities as well as our mortgage servicing rights.  Those models include assumptions about interest rates and consumer behavior that may be incorrect.  If our model assumptions are incorrect, improperly applied or inadequate, we may record higher than expected  losses or lower than expected revenues which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 26. We rely on dividends from the Bank for substantially all of our revenue at the holding company level.. We are an entity separate and distinct from our principal subsidiary, MB Financial Bank, and derive substantially all of our revenue at the holding company level in the form of dividends from that subsidiary. Accordingly, we are, and will be, dependent upon dividends from MB Financial Bank to pay the principal of and interest on our indebtedness, to satisfy our other cash needs and to pay dividends on our common and preferred stock. MB Financial Bank's ability to pay dividends is subject to its ability to earn net income and to meet certain regulatory requirements. In the event MB Financial Bank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to pay dividends on our common or preferred stock. Also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors.. If we defer payments of interest on our junior subordinated debt securities, or if certain defaults relating to those debt securities occur, we will be prohibited from declaring or paying dividends or distributions on, and from making liquidation payments with respect to, our capital stock.. As of December 31, 2017, we had outstanding $211.5 million aggregate principal amount of junior subordinated debt securities issued in connection with the sale of trust preferred securities by certain subsidiaries that are statutory business trusts. We have also guaranteed these trust preferred securities.. As of December 31, 2017, we had ten separate series of these junior subordinated debt securities outstanding, each series having been issued under a separate indenture and with a separate guarantee. Each of these indentures, together with the related guarantee, prohibits us, subject to limited exceptions, from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on, or redeeming, repurchasing, acquiring or making any liquidation payments with respect to, any of our capital stock at any time when (i) there shall have occurred and be continuing an event of default under the indenture or any event, act or condition that with notice or lapse of time or both would constitute an event of default under the indenture; (ii) we are in default with respect to payment of any obligations under the related guarantee; or (iii) we have deferred payment of interest on the junior subordinated debt securities outstanding under that indenture. In that regard, we are entitled, at our option but subject to certain conditions, to defer payments of interest on the junior subordinated debt securities of each series from time to time for up to five consecutive years.. Events of default under each indenture generally consist of failure to pay interest on the junior subordinated debt securities outstanding under that indenture under certain circumstances other than pursuant to a permitted deferral, failure to pay any principal of or premium on such junior subordinated debt securities when due, failure to comply with certain covenants under the indenture, and certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or liquidation.. As a result of these provisions, if we were to be in default under the applicable indenture or under the applicable guarantee or elect to defer payments of interest on any series of junior subordinated debt securities, we would be prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends on our capital stock, from redeeming, repurchasing or otherwise acquiring any of our capital stock, and from making any payments to holders of our capital stock in the event of our liquidation, which would likely have a material negative effect on the market value of our common and preferred stock.. Our charter contains a provision which could limit the voting rights of a holder of our common stock.. Our charter provides that any person or group who acquires beneficial ownership of our common stock in excess of 14.9% of the outstanding shares may not vote the excess shares. Accordingly, if you acquire beneficial ownership of more than 14.9% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, your voting rights with respect to our common stock will not be commensurate with your economic interest in our company.. 27. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively affect our stockholders.. Provisions in our charter and bylaws, the corporate laws of the state of Maryland and federal laws and regulations could delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our stockholders, or otherwise negatively affect the market value of our stock. These provisions include: a prohibition on voting shares of our common stock beneficially owned in excess of 14.9% of total shares outstanding; advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors and for proposing matters that stockholders may act on at stockholder meetings; and a requirement that only directors may fill a vacancy in our board of directors. Our charter also authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred or other stock, and preferred or other stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal.  In addition, because we are a bank holding company, the ability of a third party to acquire us is limited by applicable banking laws and regulations.  The Bank Holding Company Act requires any bank holding company to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve Board before acquiring 5% or more of any class of our voting securities.  Any entity that is a holder of 25% or more of any class of our voting securities, or a holder of a lesser percentage if such holder otherwise exercises a \"controlling influence\" over us, is subject to regulation as a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act.  Under the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978, as amended, any person (or persons acting in concert), other than a bank holding company, is required to notify the Federal Reserve Board before acquiring 10% or more of any class of our voting securities.. We may experience future goodwill impairment.. If our estimates of the fair value of our goodwill change as a result of changes in our business or other factors, we may determine that an impairment charge is necessary. Estimates of fair value are based on a fairly complex model using, among other things, estimated cash flows and industry pricing multiples.  Based on the Company's 2017 goodwill impairment testing of the three reporting units, banking, leasing, and mortgage banking, no reductions to goodwill were made.  If the fair values of the three reporting units were less than their book value of total common stockholders' equity, the Company will consider this and other factors, including the anticipated cash flows of each of the reporting units, to determine whether goodwill is impaired. No assurance can be given that the Company will not record an impairment loss on goodwill in the future and any such impairment loss could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our participation in the loss-share agreements with the FDIC requires that we follow certain servicing procedures, and the terms of certain loans may exceed the coverage periods under the loss-share agreements.. MB Financial Bank entered into loss-share agreements with the FDIC as part of the Heritage Community Bank (\"Heritage\"), Benchmark Bank (\"Benchmark\"), Broadway Bank (\"Broadway\"), and New Century Bank (\"New Century\") transactions. These loss-share agreements require that MB Financial Bank follow certain servicing procedures as specified in the agreement.  A failure to follow these procedures or any other breach of the agreement by MB Financial Bank could result in the loss of FDIC reimbursement of losses on covered loans and other real estate owned, which could have a material negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, the loss-share agreements protect MB Financial Bank against losses for limited periods of time (generally ten years for single family residential real estate (consumer) loans and five years for commercial loans).  To the extent MB Financial Bank continues to hold any of the covered loans following the expiration of the applicable loss-share period, it will absorb 100% of any losses.  The commercial loan loss-share agreements for the Heritage and Benchmark transactions expired in March 2014 and December 2014, respectively, and the commercial loan loss-share agreements for the Broadway and New Century transactions expired in June 2015.  The consumer loan loss-share agreements for the Heritage and Benchmark transactions will expire in March 2019 and December 2019, respectively, and the consumer loan loss-share agreements for the Broadway and New Century transactions will expire in June 2020.. Higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments could significantly increase our non-interest expense.. FDIC insurance rates increased significantly in 2009, and we may pay higher FDIC premiums in the future.  The Dodd-Frank Act established 1.35% as the minimum Designated Reserve Ratio (\"DRR\"). The FDIC has determined that the DRR should be 2.0% and has adopted a plan under which it will meet the statutory minimum DRR of 1.35% by the statutory deadline of September 30, 2020. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FDIC to offset the effect of the increase in the statutory minimum DRR to 1.35% from the former statutory minimum of 1.15% on institutions with assets less than $10 billion.  The FDIC has adopted a rule to implement this offset, under which institutions with assets of $10 billion or more pay a temporary surcharge.. 28"
