[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. This report, including Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward - looking statements that may be affected by several risk factors. The following information summarizes all material risks known to us as of the date of filing this report:. Risks Relating to Our Company. Our results of operations, cash flows and the value of our properties are highly dependent on the market prices of gold, silver, and copper and these prices can be volatile.. The profitability of our gold and silver mining operations and the value of our mining properties, are directly related to the market price of gold, silver and copper. The price of gold, silver and copper may also have a significant influence on the market price of our common stock. Historically, the market price of gold and silver has fluctuated significantly and is affected by numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include supply and demand fundamentals, global or national political or economic conditions, expectations with respect to the rate of inflation, the relative strength of the U.S. dollar and other currencies, interest rates, gold and silver sales and loans by central banks, forward sales by metal producers, accumulation and divestiture by exchange traded funds, and a number of other factors such as industrial and commercial demand.. We derive all of our revenue from the sale of gold and silver and our results of operations will fluctuate as the prices of these metals change.  A period of significant and sustained lower gold and silver prices would materially and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. The volatility of mineral prices represents a substantial risk which no amount of planning or technical expertise can fully eliminate. In the event mineral prices decline or remain low for prolonged periods of time, we might be unable to develop our properties, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial performance and cash flows. An asset impairment charge may result from the occurrence of unexpected adverse events that impact our estimates of expected cash flows generated from our producing properties or the market value of our non-producing properties, including a material diminution in the price of gold and/or silver.. Our results of operations have been and could continue to be materially and adversely affected by the impairment of assets.. During 2017, the price of gold, as measured by the London PM fix, fluctuated between $1,151 and  $1,346 per ounce. while the price of silver fluctuated between $15.22 and $18.56 per ounce.  As at February 16, 2018, gold, silver and copper prices were $1,352 per ounce, $16.84 per ounce, and $3.27 per pound, respectively.. Our Estimates of proven and probable reserves and mineralized material are based on interpretation and assumptions and may yield less mineral production under actual conditions than is currently estimated.. Unless otherwise indicated, proven and probable reserves and mineralization figures presented in our filings with securities regulatory authorities, including the SEC, news releases and other public statements that may be made from time to time, are based upon estimates made by both independent and our own internal geologists. Estimates of proven and probable reserves and mineralized material are subject to considerable uncertainty and are based, to a large extent, on the prices of gold and silver and interpretations of geologic data obtained from drill holes and other exploration techniques.  These prices and interpretations are subject to change.  If we determine that certain of our estimated reserves or mineralized material have become uneconomic, we may be forced to reduce our estimates.  Actual production may be significantly less than we expect.. When making determinations about whether to advance any of our projects to development, we rely upon such estimated calculations as to the mineralized material and grades of mineralization on our properties. Until ore is mined and processed, mineralized material and grades of mineralization must be considered as estimates only.  We cannot ensure that:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthese estimates will be accurate; or. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthis mineralization can be mined or processed profitably.. 7. Table of Contents. Any material changes in mineral estimates and grades of mineralization may affect the economic viability of placing a property into production and such property's return on capital. There can be no assurance that minerals recovered in small scale tests will be recovered in large - scale tests under on - site conditions or in production scale. Extended declines in market prices for gold and/or silver may render portions of our mineralization estimates uneconomic and result in reduced reported mineralization or adversely affect the commercial viability of one or more of our properties. Any material reductions in estimates of mineralization, or of our ability to extract this mineralization, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. Investors should also be aware that calculations of \"Reserves\" differ under SEC reporting standards and those under other international standards, such as Canada.  Investors should also be aware that mineralized material may never be converted into reserves.  See, CAUTIONARY NOTE TO UNITED STATES INVESTORS-INFORMATION CONCERNING PREPARATION OF RESOURCE AND RESERVE ESTIMATES. We may be unable to replace gold and silver reserves as they become depleted.. Like all metal producers, we must continually replace reserves depleted by production to maintain production levels over the long term and provide a return on invested capital. Depleted reserves can be replaced in several ways, including expanding known ore bodies, by locating new deposits or acquiring interests in reserves from third parties. Exploration is highly speculative in nature, involves many risks and uncertainties and is frequently unsuccessful in discovering significant mineralization. Accordingly, our current or future exploration programs may not result in new mineral producing operations. Even if significant mineralization is discovered, it will likely take many years from the initial phases of exploration until commencement of production, during which time the economic feasibility of production may change.. From time to time, we may acquire ore reserves from other parties, as we did in 2017. Such acquisitions are based on an analysis of a variety of factors including historical operating results, estimates of and assumptions regarding the extent of ore reserves, the timing of production from such reserves and cash and other operating costs. In addition, we may rely on data and reports prepared by third parties (including the ability to permit and comply with existing regulations) and which may contain information or data that we are unable to independently verify or confirm in advance. Other than historical operating results, all of these factors are uncertain and may have an impact on our revenue, our cash flow and other operating issues, as well as contributing to the uncertainties related to the process used to estimate ore reserves.. As a result of these uncertainties, our exploration programs and acquisitions may not result in the expansion or replacement of our current production with new ore reserves or operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial position.. The Black Fox and Lexam acquisitions may not achieve their intended results and may result in us assuming unanticipated liabilities.. The Black Fox and Lexam acquisitions completed in 2017 subject us to many risks.  We may discover title defects or adverse environmental or other conditions relating to the properties acquired in the transactions of which we are currently unaware. Environmental, title, and other problems could reduce the value of the properties to us, and, depending on the circumstances, we could have limited or no recourse to the sellers with respect to those problems. We have assumed substantially all of the liabilities associated with the acquired properties and would be entitled to indemnification in connection with those liabilities in only limited circumstances, for limited periods and in limited amounts. Potential remedies may not be adequate to cover any liabilities we incur, and such liabilities could be significant. Also, it is uncertain whether our existing operations and the acquired properties and operations can be integrated in an efficient and effective manner. In addition, the success of the Black Fox acquisition depends on, among other things, the accuracy of our assessment of the reserves associated with the acquired properties and operating costs, among other factors. These assessments were based to a significant degree on information provided by the sellers and we cannot guarantee their accuracy. Although the acquired properties are subject to many of the risks and uncertainties to which acquisitions we pursue are subject generally, risks associated with the Black Fox acquisition, in particular, include those associated with our ability to operate efficiently in a new area and the significant size of the transactions in the aggregate.. 8. Table of Contents. Our business requires substantial capital investment and we may be unable to raise additional funding on favorable terms to develop additional mining operations.. We will need to obtain additional capital, either in the form of debt or equity financing, to fund construction of the Gold Bar project and to continue our development and exploration activities on other projects.  Our working capital balance at December 31, 2017, along with expected cash generated from mining operations at El Gallo 1 and Black Fox mines and any dividends received from MSC, is not expected to be sufficient to allow us to fund the construction of Gold Bar or to continue our operations indefinitely. Should we also decide to develop the Los Azules project,  we will require significant capital beyond our existing resources.  Our ability to obtain necessary funding, in turn, depends upon a number of factors, including the state of the economy and applicable commodity prices. We may not be successful in obtaining the required financing for Gold Bar or other purposes, on terms that are favorable to us or at all, in which case, our ability to replace reserves and continue operating would be adversely affected. Failure to obtain such additional financing could result in delay or indefinite postponement of further exploration or potential development and the possible partial or total loss of our interest in certain properties.. If we do not hedge our exposure to reductions in gold and silver prices, we may be subject to significant reductions in price.. We do not use hedging transactions with respect to any of our gold and silver production and we do not expect to do so in the future.  Accordingly, we may be exposed to more significant price fluctuations if gold and/or silver prices decline. While the use of hedging transactions limits the downside risk of price declines, their use also may limit future revenues from price increases. Hedging transactions also involve the risk that the counterparty may be unable to satisfy its obligations.. We own our 49% interest in the San José mine, under the terms of an option and joint venture agreement (\"OJVA\"), and therefore we are unable to control all aspects of the exploration and development of, and, production from this property.. Our interest in the San José mine is subject to the risks normally associated with the conduct of joint ventures. A disagreement between joint venture partners on how to conduct business efficiently, the inability of joint venture partners to meet their obligations to the joint venture or third parties, or litigation arising between joint venture partners regarding joint venture matters could have a material adverse effect on the viability of our interests held through the joint venture.. We conduct operations in a number of foreign countries and are exposed to legal, political and social risks associated with those operations.. All of our revenue in 2017 was generated by operations outside the United States.  Exploration, development, production and closure activities in many countries are potentially subject to heightened political and social risks that are beyond our control and could result in increased costs, capacity constraints and potential disruptions to our business. These risks include the possible unilateral cancellation or forced renegotiation of contracts in which we may, directly or indirectly, have an interest, unfavorable changes in foreign laws and regulations, royalty and tax increases (including taxes associated with the import or export of goods), risks associated with consumption taxes in Mexico (VAT) and Canada (HST), income tax refund recovery and collection processes, changes in US legislation as applicable to foreign operations, claims by governmental entities or indigenous communities, expropriation or nationalization of property and other risks arising out of foreign sovereignty over areas in which our operations are conducted. The right to import and export gold and silver may depend on obtaining certain licenses and quotas, which could be delayed or denied at the discretion of the relevant regulatory authorities, or could become subject to new taxes or duties imposed by U.S. or foreign jurisdictions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or future prospects. In addition, our rights under local law may be less secure in countries where judicial systems are susceptible to manipulation and intimidation by government agencies, non-governmental organizations or civic groups.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was enacted on December 22, 2017. The Act reduces the US federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, requires companies to pay a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred and creates new taxes on certain foreign sourced earnings. See Note 9 Income and mining tax to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details.. 9. Table of Contents. Any of these developments could require us to curtail or terminate operations at our mines, incur significant costs to renegotiate contracts, meet newly-imposed environmental or other standards, pay greater royalties or higher prices for labor or services and recognize higher taxes, or experience significant delays or obstacles in the recovery of VAT/HST or income tax refunds owed, which could materially and adversely affect financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our ongoing and future success depends on developing and maintaining productive relationships with the communities, including indigenous peoples, and other stakeholders in our operating locations. Notwithstanding our ongoing efforts, local communities and stakeholders can become dissatisfied with our activities or the level of benefits provided, which may result in civil unrest, protests, direct action or campaigns against us. Any such occurrences could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our operations in Argentina and Mexico are subject to political and social risks.. With respect to our San José mine, there are risks relating to an uncertain or unpredictable political and economic environment in Argentina. For instance, Argentina defaulted on foreign debt repayments and on the repayment on a number of official loans to multinational organizations in 2002 and 2003, and defaulted again on its bonds in 2014 after failing to reach an agreement with certain of its bondholders. In 2008, the Argentine government also reassessed its policy and practice in respect of export duties and began levying export duties on mining companies operating in the country. In 2012, Argentina's President announced the nationalization of the majority stake of Yacimientos Petrolíferos Fiscales (YPF), Argentina's largest oil company. In 2013, Argentina's federal Income Tax Statute was amended to include a 10% income tax withholding on dividend distributions by Argentine corporations, and the capital gains exception for non - resident taxpayers was repealed. In 2015, Argentina's federal government removed export taxes for dore and concentrate products while the local authorities in the province of Santa Cruz substituted a provincial reserve tax with a lower provincial Corporate Social Responsibility (\"CSR\") payment. In December 2017, Argentina enacted comprehensive tax reform (Law No. 27,430 (the Law)), through publication in the Official Gazette. The Law is generally effective 1 January 2018. Specifically, the Law introduces amendments to corporate income tax, personal income tax, value added tax (VAT), tax procedural law, criminal tax law, social security contributions, excise tax, tax on fuels, and tax on the transfer of real estate. It also establishes a special regime comprising an optional revaluation of assets for income tax purposes. The law  gradually reduces the corporate tax rate to 25 % from 35 % by 2020. It also proposes to tax profits from financial investment for the first time, introducing a levy of 15 % for foreign currency-denominated and inflation-linked instruments and 5 percent for peso-denominated debt.. With respect to our El Gallo 1 mine in Mexico, there has been a consistent level of violence and crime relating to drug cartels and gangs in Sinaloa State where we operate, and in other regions of Mexico. Our facility at El Gallo was robbed in 2015.  On January 10, 2018 the US State Department issued a Level 4 (\"do not travel\") warning with respect to five Mexican states, including Sinaloa State due to violence related to the drug cartels.  These events may disrupt our ability to carry out exploration and mining activities and affect the safety and security of our employees and contractors.. In Mexico, in October 2013, the Mexican lower house passed a bill proposing a tax - deductible mining royalty of 7.5% on earnings before the deduction of interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, along with an additional 0.5% on precious metals revenue for precious metals mining companies.  The Mexican Senate approved the provisions of the Tax Reform on October 31, 2013. The effective date of the law was January 1, 2014. On February 11, 2014, we filed an Amparo with the Supreme Court to appeal the constitutionality of the Tax Reform.  On November 15, 2017, the Supreme Court ruled against us and remanded the case to the lower court.  Our obligation to pay the tax is presently stayed pending a final ruling from the court.  A ruling against us would result in an additional expense and may result in additional expenses in the future.  As of December 31, 2017, we have not generated taxable income subject to the 7.5% mining royalty, and have accrued $1.2 million for the 0.5% precious metals royalty.. Reform of the General Mining Law in the United States could adversely affect our results of operations.. Periodically, members of the U.S. Congress have introduced bills which would supplant or alter the provisions of the General Mining Law of 1872, which governs the unpatented claims that we control with respect to our U.S. properties. One such amendment has become law and has imposed a moratorium on the patenting of mining claims, which reduced the security of title provided by unpatented claims such as those on our U.S. properties. If additional legislation is enacted, it could substantially increase the cost of holding unpatented mining claims by requiring payment of royalties, and could significantly impair our ability to develop mineral estimates on unpatented mining claims. Such bills have proposed,. 10. Table of Contents. among other things, to make permanent the patent moratorium, to impose a federal royalty on production from unpatented mining claims and to declare certain lands as unsuitable for mining. Although it is impossible to predict at this time what royalties may be imposed in the future, the imposition of such royalties could adversely affect the potential for development of such mining claims, and the economics of existing operating mines on federal unpatented mining claims. Passage of such legislation could adversely affect our business.. Our business is subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti - bribery laws, a breach or violation of which could lead to civil and criminal fines and penalties, loss of licenses or permits and reputational harm.. We operate in certain jurisdictions that have experienced governmental and private sector corruption to some degree. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or other commercial advantage. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could lead to civil and criminal fines and penalties, litigation, and loss of operating licenses or permits, and may damage our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. There can be no assurance that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from recklessness, fraudulent behavior, dishonesty or other inappropriate acts committed by our affiliates, employees or agents. As such, our corporate policies and processes may not prevent all potential breaches of law or other governance practices.. We are subject to foreign currency risk.. While we transact most of our business in U.S. dollars, expenses, such as labor, operating supplies, and property and equipment, are denominated in Canadian dollars, Mexican pesos or Argentine pesos. As a result, currency exchange fluctuations may impact our operating costs. The appreciation of non - U.S. dollar currencies against the U.S. dollar increases costs and the cost of purchasing property and equipment in U.S. dollar terms in Mexico, Argentina and Canada, which can adversely impact our operating results and cash flows. Conversely, a depreciation of non - U.S. dollar currencies usually decreases operating costs and property and equipment purchases in U.S. dollar terms in foreign countries.. The value of cash and cash equivalents denominated in foreign currencies also fluctuates with changes in currency exchange rates. Appreciation of non - U.S. dollar currencies results in a foreign currency gain on such investments and a depreciation in non - U.S. dollar currencies results in a loss. We have not utilized market risk sensitive instruments to manage our exposure to foreign currency exchange rates but may in the future actively manage our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk. We also hold portions of our cash reserves in Canadian, Mexican and Argentine currency.. Development at Los Azules presents development challenges that may negatively affect, if not completely negate, the feasibility of development of the property.. The Los Azules property is located in a remote location that is accessed by 75 miles (120 kilometers) of unimproved dirt road with eight river crossings and two mountain passes above 13,451 feet (4,100 meters). Even assuming that technical difficulties associated with this remote location can be overcome, the significant capital costs required to develop the project may make the project uneconomical.  If the long term price of copper were to remain low or decrease significantly below the current price or capital cost estimates increase significantly, Los Azules may not be feasible for development, and we may have to write - off the remaining carrying value of the asset. Furthermore, the project's economic feasibility has not yet been demonstrated through a full feasibility study. The PEA is preliminary in nature, includes NI 43 - 101 mineral resources that are considered too speculative geologically to have economic considerations applied to them that would allow them to be categorized as mineral reserves either under Industry Guide 7 or NI 43 - 101, and there is no certainty that the PEA will be realized.. We may acquire additional exploration stage properties and we may face negative reactions if reserves are not located on acquired properties.. We have in the past and may in the future acquire additional exploration stage properties. There can be no assurance that we have or will be able to complete the acquisition of such properties at reasonable prices or on favorable terms and that reserves will be identified on any properties that we acquire. We may also experience negative reactions from the financial markets if we are unable to successfully complete acquisitions of additional properties or if reserves are not located on acquired properties. These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock or our financial condition or results of operations.. 11. Table of Contents. The nature of mineral exploration and production activities involves a high degree of risk and the possibility of uninsured losses that could materially and adversely affect our operations.. Exploration for and production of minerals is highly speculative and involves greater risk than many other businesses. Many exploration programs do not result in the discovery of mineralization, and any mineralization discovered may not be of sufficient quantity or quality to be profitably mined. Few properties that are explored are ultimately advanced to production. Our current exploration efforts are, and future development and mining operations we conduct will be, subject to all of the operating hazards and risks normally incident to exploring for and developing mineral properties, such as, but not limited to:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\teconomically insufficient mineralized material;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfluctuations in production costs that may make mining uneconomical;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tavailability of labor, contractors, engineers, power, transportation and infrastructure;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlabor disputes;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpotential delays related to social, public health, and community issues;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnegotiations with aboriginal groups or local populations affecting our efforts to explore, develop or produce gold and silver deposits;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tunanticipated variations in grade and other geologic problems;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tenvironmental hazards;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twater conditions;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficult surface or underground conditions;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmetallurgical and other processing problems;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmechanical and equipment performance problems;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tindustrial accidents, personal injury, fire, flooding, cave - ins, landslides and other natural disasters; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdecrease in reserves or mineralized material due to a lower silver, gold or copper price.. Any of these risks can materially and adversely affect, among other things, the development of properties, production quantities and rates, costs and expenditures, potential revenues and production dates. We currently have no insurance to guard against any of these risks, except in very limited circumstances. If we determine that capitalized costs associated with any of our mineral interests are not likely to be recovered, we would incur a write - down of our investment in these interests. All of these factors may result in losses in relation to amounts spent which are not recoverable.. We do not insure against all risks to which we may be subject in our operations.. While we currently maintain insurance policies to insure against general commercial liability claims and physical assets at our properties in Argentina, Canada, Mexico, and the United States, we do not maintain insurance to cover all of the potential risks associated with our operations. Our other exploration projects have no existing infrastructure for which we insure. We may also be unable to obtain insurance to cover other risks at economically feasible premiums or at all. Insurance coverage may not continue to be available, or may not be adequate to cover liabilities. We might also become subject to liability for environmental, pollution or other hazards associated with mineral exploration and production which may not be insured against, which may exceed the limits of our insurance coverage or which we may elect not to insure against because of premium costs or other reasons. Losses from these events may cause us to incur significant costs that. 12. Table of Contents. could materially adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to fund activities on our property. A significant loss could force us to reduce or terminate our operations.. Our operations are subject to permitting requirements which could require us to delay, suspend or terminate our operations on our mining properties.. Our mining operations, including ongoing exploration drilling programs, require permits from various state and federal governments, including permits for the use of water and for drilling wells for water. We may be unable to obtain these permits in a timely manner, on reasonable terms or on terms that provide us sufficient resources to develop our properties, or at all. Even if we are able to obtain such permits, the time required by the permitting process can be significant. If we cannot obtain or maintain the necessary permits, or if there is a delay in receiving these permits, our timetable and business plan for exploration of our properties will be adversely affected, which may in turn adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and market price of our securities.. Due to an increased level of non - governmental organization and aboriginal and local group activity targeting the mining industry, the potential for the government or process instituted by non-governmental organizations, aboriginal and local, to delay the issuance of permits or impose new requirements or conditions upon mining operations may be increased. Any changes in government policies may be costly to comply with and may delay mining operations. Future changes in such laws and regulations, if any, may adversely affect our operations, make our operations prohibitively expensive, or prohibit them altogether. If our interests are materially adversely affected as a result of a violation of applicable laws, regulations, or permitting requirements or a change in applicable law or regulations, it would have a significant negative impact on the value of our company and could have a significant impact on our stock price.. Title to mineral properties can be uncertain, and we are at risk of loss of ownership of one or more of our properties.. Our ability to explore and operate our properties depends on the validity of our title to that property. Our U.S. mineral properties include leases of unpatented mining claims, as well as unpatented mining and mill site claims, which we control directly. Unpatented mining claims provide only possessory title and their validity is often subject to contest by third parties or the federal government, which makes the validity of unpatented mining claims uncertain and generally riskier.  Similarly, Canadian mineral properties consist of patented and unpatented claims which each have their respective risks and uncertainties.  Further, there may be title defects or additional rights which are not recorded on the title.  Our concessions in Mexico are subject to continuing government regulation and failure to adhere to such regulations will result in termination of the concession. Similarly, under Argentine Law, failure to comply with applicable conditions may result in the termination of the concession. Uncertainties inherent in mineral properties relate to such things as the sufficiency of mineral discovery, proper posting and marking of boundaries, assessment work and possible conflicts with other claims not determinable from public record. We have not obtained title opinions covering our entire property, with the attendant risk that title to some claims, particularly title to undeveloped property, may be defective. There may be valid challenges to the title to our property which, if successful, could impair development and/or operations.. We cannot ensure that we will have an adequate supply of water to complete desired exploration or development of our mining properties.. Our mining operations require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. Our operations in Argentina, Mexico, Canada and the United States are in areas where water is scarce and competition among users for continuing access to water is significant. Continuous production at our mines is dependent on our ability to maintain our water rights and claims and to defeat claims adverse to our current water uses in legal proceedings. Although each of our operations currently has sufficient water rights and claims to cover its operational demands, we cannot predict the potential outcome of pending or future legal proceedings relating to our water rights, claims and uses. Water shortages may also result from weather or environmental and climate impacts out of the Company's control.. Our continuing reclamation obligations at Tonkin, Gold Bar, Black Fox, El Gallo, and other properties could require significant additional expenditures.. We are responsible for the reclamation obligations related to disturbances located on all our properties. On February 10, 2014, we submitted to the BLM an amendment to the original Plan of operations for the Tonkin Complex that incorporated the final plan for permanent closure, which was approved by the BLM on September 21, 2015, including our $3.6 million estimate of anticipated reclamation requirements, for which a financial guarantee has been put in place. In order for the. 13. Table of Contents. Company to commence construction at its Gold Bar project, a reclamation bond of $15.0 million was approved by the BLM on August 25, 2017, reflecting an estimate of the anticipated reclamation requirements, for which a financial guarantee has been put in place. As at December 31, 2017 the extent of the disturbances at Gold Bar were limited to early site preparation work. An initial reclamation obligation of $0.1 million was recorded to reflect this work.. Pursuant to the Black Fox acquisition, which closed in October 2017, the Company filed three updated closure plans with the Ministry of Northern Development and Mines (\"MNDM\"). The three updated closure plans included the Black Fox Mine, the Stock Mill, and the Grey Fox Advanced Exploration Project, which have closure costs of C$15.1 million, C$5.2 million, and C$0.4 million, respectively. The updated closure plans were filed on September 21, 2017, and accepted by the MNDM on September 27, 2017. These financial assurances were satisfied by the Company through financial guarantees.. Regarding the El Gallo 1 mine and El Gallo 2 project, we have not posted a bond in Mexico as none is required by the current legislation; however, we have recorded a liability based on the estimated amount of our reclamation obligations.. There is a risk that any surety bond or recorded liability, even if increased based on the analysis and work performed to update the reclamation obligations, could be inadequate to cover the actual costs of reclamation when carried out. The satisfaction of bonding requirements and continuing reclamation obligations will require a significant amount of capital. Further, it is possible that the BLM may request that the Company provides additional long-term financing supported by a long-term trust for an amount that cannot be determined at this point. There is a risk that we will be unable to fund any additional bonding requirements or that the surety bonds may no longer be accepted by the governmental agencies as satisfactory reclamation coverage, in which case we would be required to replace the surety bonding with cash, and further, that the regulatory authorities may increase reclamation and bonding requirements to such a degree that it would not be commercially reasonable to continue exploration activities, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial performance and cash flows.. Our ongoing operations and past mining activities are subject to environmental risks, which could expose us to significant liability and delay, suspension or termination of our operations.. All aspects of our operations are subject to Argentine, Mexican, Canadian and American federal, state and local environmental regulation. These regulations mandate, among other things, the maintenance of air and water quality standards and land reclamation. They also set forth limitations on the generation, transportation, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous waste, including cyanide. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner which will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non - compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects, and a heightened degree of responsibility for us and our officers, directors and employees. Future changes in environmental regulation, if any, may adversely affect our operations, make our operations prohibitively expensive, or prohibit them altogether. Environmental hazards may exist on our properties that are unknown to us at the present and that have been caused by us, or previous owners or operators, or that may have occurred naturally. We utilize explosives in our business, which could cause injury to our personnel, and damage to our equipment or assets. Mining properties from the companies we have acquired may cause us to be liable for remediating any damage that those companies may have caused. The liability could include response costs for removing or remediating the release and damage to natural resources, including ground water, as well as the payment of fines and penalties. Failure to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permitting requirements may also result in enforcement actions thereunder, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities, causing operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment, or remedial actions.. Our industry is highly competitive, attractive mineral lands are scarce, and we may not be able to obtain quality properties.. We compete with many companies in the mining industry, including large, established mining companies with substantial capabilities, personnel and financial resources. There is a limited supply of desirable mineral lands available for claim staking, lease or acquisition in Argentina, Mexico, Canada and the United States, and other areas where we may conduct exploration activities. We may be at a competitive disadvantage in acquiring mineral properties, since we compete with these individuals and companies, many of which have greater financial resources and larger technical staffs than we do. From time to time, specific properties or areas which would otherwise be attractive to us for exploration or acquisition may be unavailable to us due to their previous acquisition by other companies or our lack of financial resources. Competition in the industry is not limited to the acquisition of mineral properties but also extends to the technical expertise. 14. Table of Contents. to find, advance, and operate such properties; the labor to operate the properties; and the capital for the purpose of funding such properties. Many competitors not only explore for and mine precious metals, but conduct refining and marketing operations on a world - wide basis. Such competition may result in our Company being unable not only to acquire desired properties, but to recruit or retain qualified employees or to acquire the capital necessary to fund our operation and advance our properties. Our inability to compete with other companies for these resources would have a material adverse effect on our results of operation, financial condition and cash flows.. We rely on contractors to conduct a significant portion of our operations and construction projects.. A significant portion of our operations and construction projects are currently conducted in whole or in part by contractors, including specifically our operations at the El Gallo 1 and Black Fox mines and the construction at the Gold Bar Project. As a result, our operations are subject to a number of risks, some of which are outside our control, including:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tNegotiating agreements with contractors on acceptable terms;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe inability to replace a contractor and its operating equipment in the event that either party terminates the agreement;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tReduced control and oversight over those aspects of operations which are the responsibility of the contractor;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tFailure of a contractor to perform under its agreement;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tInterruption of operations or increased costs in the event that a contractor ceases its business due to insolvency or other unforeseen events;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tFailure of a contractor to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements, to the extent it is responsible for such compliance; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tProblems of a contractor with managing its workforce, labor unrest or other related employment issues.. In addition, we may incur liability to third parties as a result of the actions of our contractors. The occurrence of one or more of these risks could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.. If our employees or contractors engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, we could experience business disruptions or increased costs.. As of December 31, 2017, a number of our employees were represented by different trade unions and work councils which subject us to employment arrangements very similar to collective bargaining agreements. Further, most of our employees are based in foreign locations. The laws of certain foreign countries may place restrictions on our ability to take certain employee-related actions or require that we conduct additional negotiations with trade unions, works councils or other governmental authorities before we can take such actions.. If the employees or contractors at the San José, El Gallo 1 or Black Fox mines were to engage in a strike, work stoppage, or other slowdown in the future, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations. Such disruption could interfere with our business operations and could lead to decreased productivity, increased labor costs, and lost revenue.. We may not be successful in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements or other employment arrangements when the current ones expire. Furthermore, future labor negotiations could result in significant increases in our labor costs. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cybersecurity threats, and other disruptions.. We face various security threats, including attempts by third parties to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable; threats to the safety of our employees; threats to the security of our infrastructure; and threats from terrorist acts. There can be no assurance that the procedures and controls we use to monitor these threats and mitigate our exposure to them will be sufficient in preventing them from materializing. If any of these events were to. 15. Table of Contents. materialize, they could lead to losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure, personnel or capabilities essential to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. Our technologies, systems and networks, and those of our business partners, may become the target of cyber-attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of proprietary and other information, theft of property or other disruption of our business operations. In addition, certain cyber incidents, such as surveillance, may remain undetected for an extended period. A cyber incident involving our information systems and related infrastructure, or that of our business partners, could disrupt our business plans and negatively impact our operations. Although to date we have not experienced any significant cyber-attacks, there can be no assurance that we will not be the target of such attacks in the future. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any security vulnerabilities.. The laws of the State of Colorado, our Articles of Incorporation and agreements with certain officers and directors may protect our directors from certain types of lawsuits.. The laws of the State of Colorado provide that our directors will not be liable to us or our shareholders for monetary damages for all but certain types of conduct as directors of the Company. Our Articles of Incorporation permit us to indemnify our directors and officers against all damages incurred in connection with our business to the fullest extent provided or allowed by law, including through stand - alone indemnity agreements. We have also entered into indemnification agreements with our executive officers and directors which require that we indemnify them against certain liabilities incurred by them in their capacity as such. The exculpation provisions may have the effect of preventing shareholders from recovering damages against our directors caused by their negligence, poor judgment or other circumstances. The indemnification provisions may require us to use our limited assets to defend our directors and officers against claims, including claims arising out of their negligence, poor judgment, or other circumstances.. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock. A small number of existing shareholders own a significant portion of McEwen Mining common stock, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of any shareholder vote.. As of February 21, 2018, Mr. McEwen beneficially owned approximately 23% of our outstanding shares, or 79.2 million of the 337.1 million shares of McEwen Mining common stock. Van Eck Associates Corporation beneficially owns 10.1% of our outstanding common stock.  Under our Articles of Incorporation and the laws of the State of Colorado, the vote of the holders of a majority of the shares voting at a meeting at which a quorum is present is generally required to approve most shareholder action. As a result, Mr. McEwen and/or the other beneficial owner will be able to significantly influence the outcome of shareholder votes for the foreseeable future, including votes concerning the election of directors, amendments to our Articles of Incorporation or proposed mergers, acquisitions or other significant corporate transactions.. Our stock price may be volatile, and as a result you could lose all or part of your investment.. In addition to other risk factors identified herein and to volatility associated with equity securities in general, the value of your investment could decline due to the impact of any of the following factors upon the market price of our common stock:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tChanges in the worldwide price for gold, silver and/or copper;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tDisappointing results from our exploration or production efforts;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tProducing at rates lower than those targeted;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tPolitical and regulatory risks;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tWeather conditions, including both unusually heavy rains and unusually light rains or drought;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tFailure to meet our revenue or profit goals or operating budget;. 16. Table of Contents. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tDecline in demand for our common stock;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tDownward revisions in securities analysts' estimates or changes in general market conditions;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tTechnological innovations by competitors or in competing technologies;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tInvestor perception of our industry or our prospects;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tActions by government central banks; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tGeneral economic trends.. Stock markets in general have in the past and may in the future experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations are often unrelated to operating performance and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Adverse price fluctuations may lead to threatened or actual delisting of our common stock from the NYSE. As a result, you may be unable to resell your shares at a desired price.. There is no guarantee that the Company will continue to declare returns of capital and/or other distributions.. On June 18, 2015, the Board of Directors declared an annual return of capital of $0.01 per share of common stock, payable semi-annually.  The most recent return of capital installment of $0.005 was paid on February 14, 2018. Any determination to continue this return of capital on our common stock will be based primarily upon our financial condition, results of operations and capital requirements, including for capital expenditures and acquisitions, and our Board of Directors' determination that the return of capital is in the best interest of our stockholders and in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the Company.. Gains recognized by non - U.S. holders and non - U.S. persons holding any interest in the Company other than solely as a creditor (including, for example, interests in the form of our convertible debt, if any) on the sale or other disposition of our securities may be subject to U.S. federal income tax.. We believe that we currently are a \"United States real property holding corporation\" under section 897(c) of the Internal Revenue Code (the \"Code\"), or USRPHC, and that there is a substantial likelihood that we will continue to be a USRPHC in the future. Subject to certain exceptions, securities (other than securities that provide no interest in a corporation other than solely as a creditor) issued by a corporation that has been a USRPHC at any time during the preceding five years (or the non - U.S. holder's holding period for such securities, if shorter) are treated as U.S. real property interests, or USRPIs, and a gain recognized by a non - U.S. holder on the sale or other disposition of a USRPI is subject to regular U.S. federal income tax, on a net basis at graduated rates, as if such gain were effectively connected with the conduct by such holder of a U.S. trade or business. If a gain recognized by a non - U.S. holder from the sale or other disposition of our common stock or other securities is subject to regular net basis income tax under these rules, the transferee of such common stock or other securities may be required to deduct and withhold a tax equal to 10% of the gross amount paid to the non - U.S. holder with respect to the sale or other disposition, unless certain exceptions apply. Any tax withheld may be credited against the U.S. federal income tax owed by the non - U.S. holder for the year in which the sale or other disposition occurs.. The future issuances of our common stock will dilute current shareholders and may reduce the market price of our common stock.. Under certain circumstances, our board of directors has the authority to authorize the offer and sale of additional securities without the vote of or notice to existing shareholders. We may issue equity in the future in connection with acquisitions, strategic transactions or for other purposes. Based on the need for additional capital to fund expected growth, it is likely that we will issue additional securities to provide such capital and that such additional issuances may involve a significant number of shares of our common stock. Issuance of additional securities in the future will dilute the percentage interest of existing shareholders and may reduce the market price of our common stock and any other outstanding securities. Furthermore, the sale of a significant amount of our common stock by any selling security holders, including Mr. McEwen, may depress the price of our common stock. As a result, you may lose all or a portion of your investment.. 17. Table of Contents"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
