[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Relating to Our Business and Structure. Changes in the taxicab and for-hire vehicle industries have resulted in increased competition and have had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operations.. There have been recent changes in the taxicab and for-hire vehicle industries that have resulted in increased competition in all of our taxi medallion markets. Ridesharing applications, or ridesharing apps, utilized by for-hire vehicles were introduced in New York City in 2011 and continue to expand domestically and globally. Many of these for-hire vehicle operators operate outside of the regulatory regime with which we and our borrowers operate, which poses an increased risk of competition because such operators are able to pass the cost savings of not having to comply with certain regulations to its passengers. According to the TLC, between January 2017 and January 2018 approximately 16,000 new for-hire vehicle licenses were issued, increasing the total number of for-hire vehicles to approximately 105,100 as of January 31, 2018, an 18% increase from January 2017.. In addition, the New York State legislature enacted a law on December 21, 2011, which was amended on February 17, 2012, to permit cars for-hire to pickup street hails in boroughs outside of Manhattan. Pursuant to this law the TLC has issued approximately 8,300 Street Hail Livery licenses since June 2013, of which approximately 3,800 are active.. 19. Table of Contents. TLC annualized data through December 2017 has shown a 13.9% reduction in total New York City taxicab fares, compared to the same period in 2016, and a 13.5% reduction in the total number of New York City taxicab trips. Such reductions in fare totals and taxicab trips are likely the result of a combination of ridesharing apps, Street Hail Livery licenses, and other forms of public transportation.. As of December 31, 2017, 15.9% of our managed medallion loan portfolio and 26.1% of our on-balance sheet loan portfolios were 90 days or more past due, compared to 18.8% and 24.4% at December 31, 2016. As discussed in further detail below, there have also been recent decreases in the values of our medallion loan collateral and our Chicago medallions purchased out of foreclosure. Increased competition from ridesharing apps and Street Hail Livery licenses has reduced our market share, the overall market for taxicab services, the supply of taxicab drivers, income from operating medallions, and the value of taxicab medallions. If these trends continue and intensify, there would be a further material increase to our loan to value ratios, loan delinquencies, and loan defaults resulting in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Decreases in the value of our medallion loan collateral and our Chicago medallions purchased out of foreclosure have had a material adverse effect on our business.. A significant portion of our loan revenue is derived from loans collateralized by New York City taxicab medallions. According to TLC data, over the past 20 years New York City taxicab medallions had appreciated in value from under $200,000 to $1,320,000 for corporate medallions and $1,050,000 for individual medallions in 2014. As reported by the TLC, individual (owner-driver) medallions and corporate medallions sold for a wide range of prices during 2017. Like many other financial institutions, we evaluate the transactions and cash flows underlying borrower performance and determined that a market value of $324,000, $315,000 net of liquidation costs, was appropriate, reflecting a blend of transactional activity and values supported by borrower cash flows. In March 2017, the New York City Council made changes to the medallion classes, eliminating the distinction between individual and corporate medallions. Until the market fully stabilizes we will not be able to determine the ultimate impact of this change, however, we believe it will allow for greater economic investment as these rules were a significant barrier of entry into the industry.. We own 159 Chicago taxicab medallions that were purchased out of foreclosure in 2003. Additionally, a portion of our loan revenue is derived from loans collateralized by Chicago taxicab medallions. The Chicago medallions had appreciated in value from $50,000 in 2003 to approximately $370,000 in 2013. Since that time, however, there has been a decline in the value of Chicago taxicab medallions to approximately $48,000, $47,000 net of liquidation costs, at the end of 2017.. Decreases in the value of our medallion loan collateral has resulted in an increase in the loan-to-value ratios of our medallion loans. We estimate that the weighted average loan-to-value ratio of our managed medallion loans was approximately 131% as of December 31, 2017 and 129% as of December 31, 2016. If taxicab medallion values continue to decline, there could be an increase in medallion loan delinquencies, foreclosures, and borrower bankruptcies. Our ability to recover on defaulted medallion loans by foreclosing on and selling the medallion collateral would be diminished, which would result in material losses on defaulted medallion loans which would have a material adverse effect on our business. A substantial decrease in the value of our Chicago medallions purchased out of foreclosure would adversely affect our ability to dispose of such medallions at times when it may be advantageous for us to do so. If we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our medallions quickly, we would realize less than the value at which we had previously recorded such medallions.. We borrow money, which magnifies the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested, and may increase the risk of investing in us.. Borrowings, also known as leverage, magnify the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested, and therefore increase the risk associated with investing in us. We borrow from and issue senior debt securities to banks and other lenders, and through long-term subordinated SBA debentures. These creditors have fixed dollar claims on our assets that are superior to the claims of our shareholders. If the value of our assets increases, then leveraging would cause the net asset value to increase more sharply than it would have had we not leveraged. Conversely, if the value of our assets decreases, leveraging would cause net asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged. Similarly, any increase in our income in excess of interest payable on the borrowed funds would cause our net income to increase more than it would without the leverage, while any decrease in our income would cause net income to decline more sharply than it would have had we not borrowed. Such a decline could reduce the amount available for distribution payments.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $327,623,000 of outstanding indebtedness, which had a weighted average borrowing cost of 4.01% at December 31, 2017, and our wholly-owned unconsolidated portfolio companies, primarily Medallion Bank, had $906,748,000 of outstanding indebtedness at a weighted average borrowing cost of 1.51%.. Most of our borrowing relationships have maturity dates during 2018. We have been in active and ongoing discussions with each of these lenders and have extended each of the facilities as they matured except as set forth in the following risk factor. Certain lenders have worked with us to extend and change the terms of the borrowing agreements. See Note 4 for a discussion of the current and new lending arrangements to date.. 20. Table of Contents. Failure to obtain an extension of our existing credit facilities or failure to obtain additional revolving credit facilities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.. We utilize secured revolving credit facilities and other facilities to fund our investments. We cannot guarantee that our credit facilities will continue to be available beyond their current maturity dates on reasonable terms or at all or that we will be able to otherwise obtain funds by selling assets or raising equity to make required payments on maturing indebtedness. Our revolving credit facilities have converted to term loans. Obtaining additional revolving credit facilities or other alternative sources of financing may be difficult and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to do so on terms favorable to us or at all. The availability of revolving credit facilities depends, in part, on factors outside of our control, including regulatory capital treatment for unfunded bank lines of credit, the financial strength and strategic objectives of the banks that participate in our credit facilities and the availability of bank liquidity in general. If the credit facilities are not renewed or extended by our lenders by their maturity dates, we will not be able to make further borrowings under the facilities after they mature and the outstanding principal balances under such facilities will be due and payable at maturity. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or meet our payment obligations, our financial condition would be adversely affected and our lenders may foreclose on the property securing such indebtedness. If we are unable to extend or replace these facilities or arrange new credit facilities or other types of interim financing, we may need to curtail or suspend loan origination and funding activities which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.. We and our subsidiaries obtain financing under lending facilities extended by various banks and other financial institutions, some of which are secured by loans, taxi medallions and other assets. Where these facilities are extended to our subsidiaries, we and others of our subsidiaries may guarantee the obligations of the relevant borrower. Five of our smallest subsidiaries are borrowers under promissory notes extended to them by a bank that total $8.8 million that came due on October 17, 2016. These loans are secured by Chicago taxi medallions owned by our subsidiaries. These notes are guaranteed by Medallion Funding, not by Medallion Financial Corp. These subsidiaries have not repaid the amounts due under the notes and the bank has filed a suit seeking payment of these amounts. This failure to pay would constitute an event of default under certain loan agreements which we or our subsidiaries are borrowers, but the lenders under those agreements have waived the default. If judgment is entered against us in the suit brought by the bank or entered and not satisfied within specified periods of time, these outcomes may constitute an additional event of default under these other agreements. If waivers are required and not granted for this additional event of default, it would lead to events of default under other of our financing arrangements.. We are subject to certain financial covenants and other restrictions under our loan and credit arrangements, which could affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities.. Our loan and credit agreements contain financial covenants and other restrictions relating to borrowing base eligibility, tangible net worth, net income, leverage ratios, shareholders' equity, and collateral values. Our ability to meet these financial covenants and restrictions could be affected by events beyond our control, such as a substantial decline in collateral values or a rise in borrower delinquencies. A breach of these covenants could result in an event of default under the applicable debt instrument. Such a default, if not cured or waived, may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt that is subject to an applicable cross-acceleration or cross-default provision. Certain other events can constitute an event of default. Furthermore, if we were unable to repay the amounts due and payable under our credit facilities, those lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. In the event our lenders or holders of the related notes accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. Based on the foregoing factors, the operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our current credit agreements and any future financing agreements could adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities.. The issuance of debt securities or preferred stock and our borrowing money from banks or other financial institutions may affect holders of our common stock.. Our business may periodically require capital. We may issue debt securities or preferred stock, and/or borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as senior securities. Any amounts that we use to service our debt or make payments on preferred stock will not be available for distributions to our common shareholders. It is likely that any senior securities we issue will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. Additionally, some of these securities or other indebtedness may be rated by rating agencies, and in obtaining a rating for such securities and other indebtedness, we may be required to abide by operating and investment guidelines that further restrict operating and financial flexibility. We and, indirectly, our shareholders will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities and other indebtedness. Preferred stock or any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences, and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock, including separate voting rights, and could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control to the detriment of the holders of our common stock.. If we raise additional funds by issuing more common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, the percentage ownership of our shareholders at that time would decrease and they may experience dilution. Moreover, we can offer no assurance that we will be able to issue and sell additional equity securities in the future, on favorable terms or at all.. 21. Table of Contents. Consumer lending by Medallion Bank carries a higher risk of loss and could be adversely affected by an economic downturn.. By its nature, lending to consumers carries with it a higher risk of loss than commercial lending. Although the net interest margins should be higher to compensate Medallion Bank for this increased risk, an economic downturn could result in higher loss rates and lower returns than expected, and could affect the profitability of Medallion Bank's consumer loan portfolio.. We are dependent upon our key investment personnel for our future success.. We depend on the diligence, skill, and network of business contacts of the investment professionals we employ for sourcing, evaluating, negotiating, structuring, and monitoring our investments. Our future success will also depend, to a significant extent, on the continued service and coordination of our senior management team, particularly, Alvin Murstein, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Andrew M. Murstein, our President, and Larry D. Hall, our Chief Financial Officer. The departure of Messrs. Murstein or Mr. Hall, or any member of our senior management team, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objective.. Changes in taxicab industry regulations that result in the issuance of additional medallions or increases in the expenses involved in operating a medallion would lead to a decrease in the value of our medallion loan collateral and our Chicago medallions purchased out of foreclosure.. Every city in which we originate medallion loans, and most other major cities in the United States, limits the supply of taxicab medallions. This regulation results in supply restrictions that support the value of medallions. Actions that loosen these restrictions and result in the issuance of additional medallions into a market could decrease the value of medallions in that market. If this were to occur, the value of the collateral securing our then outstanding medallion loans in that market would be adversely affected. We are unable to forecast with any degree of certainty whether any other potential increases in the supply of medallions will occur.. In New York City, Chicago, Boston, and other markets where we originate medallion loans, taxicab fares are generally set by government agencies. Expenses associated with operating taxicabs are largely unregulated. As a result, the ability of taxicab operators to recoup increases in expenses is limited in the short term. Escalating expenses, such as rising gas prices and an increase in interest rates, can render taxicab operations less profitable, could cause borrowers to default on loans from us and would adversely affect the value of our collateral.. We operate in a highly regulated environment, and if we are found to be in violation of any of the federal, state, or local laws or regulations applicable to us, our business could suffer.. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, was enacted in 2010. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly changed federal financial services regulation and affects, among other things, the lending, deposit, investment, trading, and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. In addition to the statutory requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act, the legislation also delegated authority to US banking, securities and derivatives regulators to impose additional restrictions through required rulemaking. The Dodd-Frank Act requires a company that owns an industrial bank to serve as a \"source of strength\" to the institution. We believe that we have historically served, and will serve in the future, as a source of strength to our industrial bank subsidiary, Medallion Bank. We do not believe that the codification of this requirement under the Dodd-Frank Act materially impacts our obligations. A company that owns an industrial bank is also subject to the Dodd-Frank Act \"Volcker Rule.\" We do not believe that the \"Volcker Rule\" materially impacts our operations as presently conducted.. For so long as we remain a BDC, the 1940 Act imposes numerous constraints on our operations. For a discussion of those constraints, see \"Government Regulation - Regulation by the SEC and under the 1940 Act.\" Any failure to comply with the requirements imposed on BDCs by the 1940 Act, if applicable, could have material adverse consequences to us or our investors, including possible enforcement action by the SEC. See \"Risk Factors - Risks Associated with Our Operations as a BDC.\". Other changes in the laws or regulations applicable to us more generally, may negatively impact the profitability of our business activities, require us to change certain of our business practices, materially affect our business model, limit the activities in which we may engage, affect retention of key personnel, require us to raise additional regulatory capital, increase the amount of liquid assets that we hold, otherwise affect our funding profile or expose us to additional costs (including increased compliance costs). Any such changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes and may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business as previously conducted or our results of operations or financial condition.. We are also subject to a wide range of federal, state, and local laws and regulations, such as local licensing requirements, and retail financing, debt collection, consumer protection, environmental, health and safety, creditor, wage-hour, anti-discrimination, whistleblower and other employment practices laws and regulations and we expect these costs to increase going forward. The violation of these or future requirements or laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil, or criminal sanctions against us, which may include fines, a cease and desist order against the subject operations or even revocation or suspension of our license to operate the subject business. As a result, we have incurred and will continue to incur capital and operating expenditures and other costs to comply with these requirements and laws and regulations.. 22. Table of Contents. Changes in laws, regulations, or policies may adversely affect our business.. The post-financial crisis era has been marked by an increase in regulation, regulatory intensity, and enforcement. We are unable to predict all of the ways in which this change in the regulatory environment could impact our business models or objectives. The laws and regulations governing our lending, servicing, and debt collection activities or the regulatory or enforcement environment at the federal level or in any of the states in which we operate may change at any time which may have an adverse effect on our business.. We expect, however, to see an increase over time in regulatory scrutiny and enforcement in the area of consumer financial products regulation, as a result of the establishment of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, or the CFPB, by the Dodd-Frank Act. The CFPB is responsible for interpreting and enforcing a broad range of consumer protection laws that govern the provision of deposit accounts and the making of loans, including the regulation of mortgage lending and servicing and automobile finance. While Medallion Bank's size currently falls below the threshold that would give the CFPB direct authority over it, Medallion Bank's existing bank supervisors may pursue similar policies and make similar information requests to those of the CFPB with respect to consumer financial products and other matters within the scope of the CFPB's authority. We believe that the CFPB's regulatory reforms, together with other provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, and increased regulatory supervision, may increase our cost of doing business, impose new restrictions on the way in which we conduct our business, or add significant operational constraints that might impair our profitability.. We are unable to predict how these or any other future legislative proposals or programs will be administered or implemented or in what form, or whether any additional or similar changes to statutes or regulations, including the interpretation or implementation thereof, will occur in the future. Any such action could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our inability to remain in compliance with regulatory requirements in a particular jurisdiction could have a material adverse effect on our operations in that market and on our reputation generally. No assurance can be given that applicable laws or regulations will not be amended or construed differently or that new laws and regulations will not be adopted, either of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Federal and state law may discourage certain acquisitions of our common stock which could have a material adverse effect on our shareholders.. Because Medallion Bank is an \"insured depository institution\" within the meaning of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act and the Change in Bank Control Act and we are a \"financial institution holding company\" within the meaning of the Utah Financial Institutions Act, federal and Utah law and regulations prohibit any person or company from acquiring control of us and, indirectly Medallion Bank, without, in most cases, prior written approval of the FDIC or the Commissioner of the Utah Department of Financial Institutions, as applicable. Under the Change in Bank Control Act, control is conclusively presumed if, among other things, a person or company acquires 25% or more of any class of our voting stock. A rebuttable presumption of control arises if a person or company acquires 10% or more of any class of voting stock and is subject to a number of specified \"control factors\" as set forth in the applicable regulations. Under the Utah Financial Institutions Act, control is defined as the power to vote 20% or more of any class of our voting securities by an individual or to vote more than 10% of any class of our voting securities by a person other than an individual. Investors are responsible for ensuring that they do not, directly or indirectly, acquire shares of our common stock in excess of the amount which can be acquired without regulatory approval. These provisions could delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our shareholders, or otherwise adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Although Medallion Bank is an \"insured depository institution\" within the meaning of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act and the Change in Bank Control Act, your investment in Medallion Financial Corp. is not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC, or any other agency, and is subject to loss.. Change in the Company's Tax Classification.. RIC qualification rules require that at the end of each quarter of our taxable year, (i) at least 50% of the market value of our assets must be represented by cash, securities of other RICs, US government securities, and other securities, with such other securities limited, in respect of any one issuer, to an amount not greater than 5% of our assets and not greater than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of such issuer and (ii) not more than 25% of the value of our assets may be invested in the securities (other than US government securities or securities of other RICs) of any one issuer, any two or more issuers of which 20% or more of the voting stock is held by us and that are determined to be engaged in the same or similar trades or businesses or related trades or businesses or in the securities of one or more qualified publicly traded partnerships. We monitor our compliance with these asset tests and any other. 23. Table of Contents. investment concentrations in conjunction with the diversification tests. As of December 31, 2017 our largest investment subject to this test was our investment in Medallion Bank, representing 52.9% of our RIC assets, and no other investments were more than 5% of our RIC assets. As a result of our failure of the 25% asset diversification test, we were not eligible to file our tax returns as a RIC for 2017.. Because we did not meet the qualifications for RIC tax treatment for the tax years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, and now we are subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions. Qualification as a RIC is made on an annual basis and, although we and some of our subsidiaries have qualified in the past, we cannot assure you that we will qualify for such treatment in the future.. If we do not qualify as a RIC for more than two consecutive years, and then seek to requalify and elect RIC status, we would be required to recognize gain to the extent of any unrealized appreciation on our assets unless we make a special election to pay corporate-level tax on any such unrealized appreciation recognized during the succeeding 10-year period.. To obtain and maintain RIC tax treatment under the Code in any future taxable year, we must meet the following annual distribution, income source, and asset diversification requirements.. <U+0095>   The annual distribution requirement for a RIC will be satisfied if we distribute to our shareholders on an annual basis at least 90% of our net ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any, and at least 90% of our net tax-exempt income. Because we use debt financing, we are subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and financial covenants under loan and credit agreements that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to satisfy the distribution requirement. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we could fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level income tax.. <U+0095>   The income source requirement will be satisfied if we obtain at least 90% of our income for each year from dividends, interest, gains from the sale of stock or securities, or similar sources.. <U+0095>   The asset diversification requirement will be satisfied if we meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each quarter of our taxable year. Failure to meet those requirements may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of RIC status. Because most of our investments will be in private companies, and therefore will be relatively illiquid, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and could result in substantial losses.. If we meet the requirements to be treated as a RIC in a future tax year, for US federal income tax purposes, we would have to include in taxable income certain amounts that we would not have yet received in cash, such as original issue discount, which may arise if we received warrants in connection with the origination of a loan or possibly in other circumstances, or contractual payment-in-kind interest, which represents contractual interest added to the loan balance and due at the end of the loan term. Such original issue discount or increases in loan balances as a result of payment-in-kind interest will be included in income before we receive any corresponding cash payments. We also may be required to include in income certain other amounts that we will not receive in cash.. Since, in certain cases, we may recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty meeting the annual distribution requirement necessary to achieve and maintain RIC tax treatment under the Code. Accordingly, we may have to sell some of our investments at times and/or at prices we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital, or reduce new investment originations for this purpose. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may subsequently fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level income tax. If the Company withdraws its election to be regulated as a BDC under the 1940 Act, the Company would remain ineligible to file as a RIC under the Code and would be treated as a C corporation for tax purposes. See Note 5 for more information.. Our SBIC subsidiaries may be unable to meet the investment company requirements, which could result in the imposition of an entity-level tax.. Some of our subsidiaries are subject to the SBIA. Our SBIC subsidiaries that are RICs may be prohibited by the SBIA from making the distributions necessary to qualify as a RIC. The SBA has agreed that our SBIC subsidiaries can make these distributions provided we reinvest the distributions in our SBIC subsidiaries as undistributed net realized earnings. We cannot assure you that this will continue to be the SBA's policy or that our subsidiaries will have adequate capital to make the required adjustments. If our subsidiaries are unable to obtain a waiver, compliance with the SBA regulations may result in loss of RIC status and a consequent imposition of an entity-level tax at the subsidiary level. In the event we are granted a waiver, we will be required to reinvest the distribution into the SBIC as capital. This may result in us recognizing taxable income without receiving a corresponding amount of cash to pay the distribution. Any failure to pay the distribution could cause a loss of RIC status and the imposition of entity level tax. If the Company withdraws its election to be regulated as a BDC under the 1940 Act, the SBIC subsidiaries would be ineligible to file as a RIC under the Code.. 24. Table of Contents. Our SBIC subsidiaries are licensed by the SBA, and are therefore subject to SBA regulations.. Our SBIC subsidiaries are licensed to operate as SBICs and are regulated by the SBA. The SBA also places certain limitations on the financing terms of investments by SBICs in portfolio companies and prohibits SBICs from providing funds for certain purposes or to businesses in a few prohibited industries. Compliance with SBA requirements may cause the SBIC subsidiaries to forego attractive investment opportunities that are not permitted under SBA regulations.. Further, SBA regulations require that a licensed SBIC be periodically examined and audited by the SBA to determine its compliance with the relevant SBA regulations. The SBA prohibits, without prior SBA approval, a \"change of control\" of an SBIC or transfers that would result in any person (or a group of persons acting in concert) owning 10% or more of a class of capital stock of an SBIC. If the SBIC subsidiaries fail to comply with applicable SBIC regulations, the SBA could, depending on the severity of the violation, limit or prohibit their use of debentures, declare outstanding debentures immediately due and payable, and/or limit them from making new investments. In addition, the SBA could revoke or suspend an SBIC license or bring a suit for the appointment of a receiver for the SBIC and for its liquidation for willful or repeated violation of, or willful or repeated failure to observe, any provision of the SBIA or any rule or regulation promulgated thereunder. Such actions by the SBA would, in turn, negatively affect us.. We anticipate withdrawing the Company's election to be regulated as a BDC and may in the future materially change our corporate structure and the nature of our business.. On March 7, 2018, a majority of the Company's shareholders authorized the Company's Board of Directors to withdraw the Company's election to be regulated as a BDC under the 1940 Act and our Board of Directors approved the filing of the Company's withdrawal form with the SEC to be made on or about April 1, 2018. At that point, we would no longer be a BDC or be subject to the provisions of the 1940 Act applicable to BDCs.. The withdrawal of the Company's election to be regulated as a BDC would result in a significant change in our accounting and financial reporting requirements.. If the Company withdraws its election to be regulated as a BDC, as expected, commencing with the second quarter of 2018, the Company would no longer be subject to FASB Accounting Standards Codification Topic 946, Financial Services  -  Investment Companies, which would result in a significant change in our accounting and financial reporting requirements. Our financial statements are currently presented and accounted for under the specialized method of accounting applicable to investment companies, which requires us to recognize our investments, including controlled investments, at fair value. As a BDC, we are currently precluded from consolidating any entity other than another investment company that acts as an extension of our investment operations and facilitates the execution of our investment strategy or an investment in a controlled operating company that provides substantially all of its services to us. Our financial statements currently consolidate the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned investment company subsidiaries, except for Medallion Bank and other portfolio investments. Our financial statements reflect our investment in Medallion Bank and other portfolio investments at fair value, as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors. Medallion Bank's financial statements are separately provided as a significant unconsolidated wholly-owned subsidiary. If the Company withdraws its election to be regulated as a BDC, the Company will consolidate the financial statements of Medallion Bank and controlled or majority-owned portfolio investments together with those of the Company, which would be a significant change in our accounting and financial reporting requirements.. Our shareholders would no longer have the protections of the 1940 Act upon the withdrawal of the Company's election to be regulated as a BDC.. If the Company ceases to operate as a BDC, our shareholders would no longer have the following protections of the 1940 Act:. <U+0095>   we would no longer be subject to the requirement under the 1940 Act that we maintain a ratio of assets to senior securities of at least 200%;. <U+0095>   we would no longer be subject to provisions of the 1940 Act prohibiting us from protecting any director or officer against any liability to the Company or our shareholders arising from willful malfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence, or reckless disregard of the duties involved in the conduct of that person's office;. <U+0095>   we would no longer be required to provide and maintain an investment company blanket bond issued by a reputable fidelity insurance company to protect us against larceny and embezzlement;. 25. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   while the majority of our directors would still be required to be \"independent\" under applicable NASDAQ regulations, we would no longer be required to ensure that a majority of our directors are persons who are not \"interested persons,\" as defined in the 1940 Act, and certain persons who would be prevented from serving on our Board of Directors if we were a BDC would be able to serve on our Board of Directors;. <U+0095>   we would no longer be subject to provisions of the 1940 Act regulating transactions between BDCs and certain affiliates;. <U+0095>   we would no longer be subject to provisions of the 1940 Act restricting our ability to issue shares below net asset value or in exchange for services or to issue warrants and options;. <U+0095>   we would no longer be required to disclose the Company's net asset value per share in our financial statements;. <U+0095>   we would no longer be subject to provisions of the 1940 Act restricting our ability to change the nature of our business or fundamental investment policies without having to obtain the approval of our shareholders;. <U+0095>   we would no longer be subject to the provisions of the 1940 Act limiting our ability to grant stock based compensation to officers, directors and employees or to provide a profit sharing program for them; and. <U+0095>   we would no longer be subject to the other protective provisions set out in the 1940 Act and the rules and regulations promulgated under the 1940 Act.. In addition, we are very much affected by the legal, regulatory, tax and accounting regimes under which we operate. We periodically evaluate whether those regimes and our existing corporate structure are the optimum means for the operation and capitalization of our business. As a result of these evaluations, we may decide to proceed with structural and organizational changes (certain of which may require the approval of our shareholders), which could result in material dispositions of various assets, changes in our corporate form or other fundamental changes. We may incur certain costs in completing these evaluations and may receive no benefit from these expenditures, particularly if we do not proceed with any changes.. If we withdraw our election to be regulated as a BDC, maintaining an exception from registration under the 1940 Act could limit our ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities, and the failure to maintain that exception would have material adverse consequences on our business.. A company that meets the definition of an \"investment company\" under the 1940 Act, in the absence of an exception or exemption, must either register with the SEC as an investment company or elect BDC status. Historically, the composition of the Company's assets caused us to meet the definition of an \"investment company,\" and the Company made a corresponding election to be treated as a BDC. If the Company were to de-elect BDC status, as expected, we would either have to operate so as to fall outside the definition of an \"investment company\" or within an applicable exception. To the extent the Company withdraws its election to be regulated as a BDC, the Company expects to fall within the exception from the definition of an \"investment company\" provided under Section 3(c)(6) of the 1940 Act as a company primarily engaged, directly or through majority-owned subsidiaries, in the business of, among other things, (i) banking, (ii) purchasing and otherwise acquiring notes, drafts, acceptances, open accounts receivable, and other obligations representing part or all of the sales price of merchandise, insurance and services, and (iii) making loans to manufacturers, wholesalers, and retailers of, and to prospective purchasers of, specified merchandise, insurance, and services. The Company would be required to monitor our continued compliance with this exception, which would limit our ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities that would cause us to be out of compliance with its limitations and could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, we could be limited in growing Medallion Capital, Inc., which is currently engaged in a business that generally does not qualify for the exception.. If the SEC or a court were to find that we were required, but failed, to register as an investment company in violation of the 1940 Act, we may have to cease business activities, we would breach representations and warranties and/or be in default as to certain of our contracts and obligations, civil or criminal actions could be brought against us, our contracts would be unenforceable unless a court were to require enforcement and a court could appoint a receiver to take control of us and liquidate our business, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities.. We compete for investments with other business development companies and other investment funds as well as traditional financial services companies such as commercial banks and credit unions. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical, and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments. These characteristics could allow our competitors to consider a wider variety of investments,. 26. Table of Contents. establish more relationships, and offer better pricing and more flexible structuring than us. We may be unwilling to match our competitors' pricing, terms, and structure of certain loans and investments opportunities due to potential risks, which may result in us earning less income than our competitors. If we are forced to match our competitors' pricing, terms, and structure, we may not be able to achieve acceptable returns on our investments or may bear substantial risk of capital loss. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us for so long as we remain a BDC.. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time.. Changes in interest rates may affect our cost of capital and net investment income.. Because we borrow to fund our investments, a portion of our income is dependent upon the difference between the interest rate at which we borrow funds and the interest rate at which we invest these funds. A portion of our investments, such as taxi medallion loans, will have fixed interest rates, while a portion of our borrowings will likely have floating interest rates. As a result, a significant change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our net investment income. In periods of rising interest rates, our cost of funds could increase, which would reduce our net investment income. We may hedge against interest rate fluctuations by using standard hedging instruments, subject to applicable legal requirements. These activities may limit our ability to participate in the benefits of lower interest rates with respect to the hedged portfolio. Adverse developments resulting from changes in interest rates or hedging transactions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Also, we will have to rely on our counterparties to perform their obligations under such hedges.. A decrease in prevailing interest rates may lead to more loan prepayments, which could adversely affect our business.. Our borrowers generally have the right to prepay their loans upon payment of a fee ranging from 1% to 2% for standard commodity loans, and for higher amounts, as negotiated, for larger more custom loan arrangements. A borrower is likely to exercise prepayment rights at a time when the interest rate payable on the borrower's loan is high relative to prevailing interest rates. In a lower interest rate environment, we will have difficulty re-lending prepaid funds at comparable rates, which may reduce the net interest income that we receive. When this occurs, we will generally reinvest these proceeds in temporary investments, pending their future investment in new portfolio companies. These temporary investments will typically have substantially lower yields than the debt being prepaid, and we could experience significant delays in reinvesting these amounts. Any future investment in a new portfolio company may also be at lower yields than the debt that was repaid. As a result, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if a substantial number of our portfolio companies elect to prepay amounts owed to us and we are not able to reinvest the proceeds for comparable yields in a timely fashion. Additionally, prepayments could negatively impact our return on equity, which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock.. An increase in prevailing interest rates could adversely affect our business.. The majority of our loan portfolio is comprised of fixed-rate loans. An abrupt increase in market rates of interest may have an adverse impact on our earnings until we are able to originate new loans at higher prevailing interest rates.. We depend on cash flow from our subsidiaries to make distribution payments to our shareholders.. We are primarily a holding company, and we derive most of our operating income and cash flow from our subsidiaries. As a result, we rely heavily upon distributions from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to make distribution payments to our shareholders. Funds are provided to us by our subsidiaries through dividends and payments on intercompany indebtedness, but we cannot assure you that our subsidiaries will be in a position to continue to make these dividend or debt payments. The Utah Department of Financial Institutions and FDIC have the authority to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by Medallion Bank. In addition, as a condition to receipt of FDIC insurance, Medallion Bank entered into a capital maintenance agreement with the FDIC requiring it to maintain a 15% leverage ratio (Tier 1 capital to average assets). As of December 31, 2017 Medallion Bank's leverage ratio was 14.5% and Medallion Bank may be restricted from declaring and paying dividends as a result of the leverage ratio being below 15%.. Medallion Bank's use of brokered deposit sources for its deposit-gathering activities may not be available when needed.. Medallion Bank relies on the established brokered deposit market to originate deposits to fund its operations. Medallion Bank's brokered deposits consist of deposits raised through the brokered deposit market rather than through retail branches. While Medallion Bank has developed contractual relationships with a diversified group of investment brokers, and the brokered deposit market is well developed and utilized by many banking institutions, conditions could change that might affect the availability of deposits. Applicable. 27. Table of Contents. statutes and regulations restrict the use of brokered deposits and the interest rates paid on such deposits for institutions that are less than \"well capitalized\". If the capital levels at Medallion Bank fall below the \"well-capitalized\" level as defined by the FDIC or the capital level currently required by the FDIC pursuant to its capital maintenance agreement, or if Medallion Bank experiences a period of sustained operating losses, the cost of attracting deposits from the brokered deposit market could increase significantly, and the ability of Medallion Bank to raise deposits from this source could be impaired. Brokered deposits may also not be as stable as other types of deposits. Medallion Bank's ability to manage its growth to stay within the \"well-capitalized\" level, and the capital level currently required by the FDIC pursuant to its capital maintenance agreement, which is also considerably higher than the level required to be classified as \"well-capitalized\", is critical to Medallion Bank's retaining open access to this funding source.. Uncertainty relating to the reporting of collateral values for our loans may adversely affect the value of our portfolio.. Medallion loans are primarily collateral-based lending, whereby the collateral value exceeds the amount of the loan, providing sufficient excess collateral to protect us against losses. Despite our reliance on collateral values, medallions are income producing assets that generate cash flow which is utilized to repay our loans. We rely on the integrity of the collateral value benchmarks obtained by the applicable regulatory agencies and other third parties. If these benchmarks are artificially influenced by market participants we could suffer losses. We have experienced a significant downward movement in medallion collateral values which may continue, and has caused a negative impact on our valuation analysis and could result in further significant lower fair market value measurements of our portfolio.. We require an objective benchmark in determining the fair value of our portfolio. If the benchmarks that we currently use are deemed to be unreliable, we will need to use other intrinsic factors in determining the collateral values for our loans.. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business.. We generally make investments in private companies. Substantially all of these securities are subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or are otherwise less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we had previously recorded our investments. We may also face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a portfolio company to the extent that we have material non-public information regarding such portfolio company.. In addition, the illiquidity of our loan portfolio and investments may adversely affect our ability to dispose of loans at times when it may be advantageous for us to liquidate such portfolio or investments. In addition, if we were required to liquidate some or all of the investments in the portfolio, the proceeds of such liquidation may be significantly less than the current value of such investments. Because we borrow money to make loans and investments, our net operating income is dependent upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds and the rate at which we invest these funds. As a result, there can be no assurance that a significant change in market interest rates will not have a material adverse effect on our interest income. In periods of sharply rising interest rates, our cost of funds would increase, which would reduce our net operating income before net realized and unrealized gains. We use a combination of long-term and short-term borrowings and equity capital to finance our investing activities. Our long-term fixed-rate investments are financed primarily with short-term floating-rate debt, and to a lesser extent by term fixed-rate debt. We may use interest rate risk management techniques in an effort to limit our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. Such techniques may include various interest rate hedging activities to the extent permitted by the 1940 Act. We have analyzed the potential impact of changes in interest rates on net interest income. Assuming that the balance sheet were to remain constant and no actions were taken to alter the existing interest rate sensitivity, and including the impact on Medallion Bank, a hypothetical immediate 1% increase in interest rates would result in an increase to the line item \"net increase in net assets resulting from operations\" as of December 31, 2017 by approximately $1,778,000 on an annualized basis, compared to a positive impact of $1,100,000 at December 31, 2016, and the impact of such an immediate increase of 1% over a one year period would have been approximately ($984,000) at December 31, 2017, compared to ($792,000) at December 31, 2016. Although management believes that this measure is indicative of our sensitivity to interest rate changes, it does not adjust for potential changes in credit quality, size, and composition of the assets on the balance sheet, and other business developments that could affect net increase in net assets resulting from operations in a particular quarter or for the year taken as a whole. Accordingly, no assurances can be given that actual results would not differ materially from the potential outcome simulated by these estimates.. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results.. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including our ability to make investments in companies that meet our investment criteria, the interest rate payable on the debt securities we acquire, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets, and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods.. 28. Table of Contents. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including our proprietary business information and that of our customers and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our data centers, and on our networks. The secure processing, maintenance, and transmission of this information is critical to our operations. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information and regulatory penalties, disrupt our operations and damage our reputation, which could adversely affect our business.. Terrorist attacks, other acts of violence or war, and natural disasters may affect any market for our securities, impact the businesses in which we invest, and harm our operations and profitability.. Terrorist attacks and natural disasters may harm our results of operations and your investment. We cannot assure you that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the US or US businesses or major natural disasters hitting the United States. Such attacks or natural disasters in the US or elsewhere may impact the businesses in which we directly or indirectly invest by undermining economic conditions in the United States. In addition, a substantial portion of our business is focused in the New York City metropolitan area, which suffered a terrorist attack in 2001. Another terrorist attack in New York City or elsewhere could severely impact our results of operations. Losses resulting from terrorist attacks are generally uninsurable.. Our financial condition and results of operations will depend on our ability to manage growth effectively.. Our ability to achieve our investment objective will depend on our ability to grow, which will depend, in turn, on our management team's ability to identify, evaluate, and monitor, and our ability to finance and invest in, companies that meet our investment criteria.. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis will be largely a function of our management team's handling of the investment process, its ability to provide competent, attentive, and efficient services, and our access to financing on acceptable terms. In addition to monitoring the performance of our existing investments, members of our management team and our investment professionals may also be called upon to provide managerial assistance to our portfolio companies. These demands on their time may distract them or slow the rate of investment. In order to grow, we will need to hire, train, supervise, and manage new employees. However, we cannot assure you that any such employees will contribute to the success of our business. Any failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates is restricted.. The SBA restricts the ability of SBICs to lend money to any of their officers, directors, and employees, or invest in any affiliates thereof.. Medallion Bank is subject to certain federal laws that restrict and control its ability to engage in transactions with its affiliates. Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and applicable regulations restrict the transfer of funds by Medallion Bank to certain of its affiliates, including us, in the form of loans, extensions of credit, investments, or purchases of assets and restrict its ability to provide services to, or receive services from, its affiliates. Sections 23A and 23B also require generally that Medallion Bank's transactions with its affiliates be on terms no less favorable to Medallion Bank than comparable transactions with unrelated third parties.. If and to the extent that the Company remains a BDC under the 1940 Act, our ability to enter into certain transactions with our affiliates is restricted. See \"Risks Associated with Our Operations as a BDC -  The 1940 Act restricts our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates.\". 29. Table of Contents. Our Board of Directors may change our operating policies and strategies without prior notice or shareholder approval, the effects of which may be adverse.. Our Board of Directors has the authority to modify or waive our current operating policies and strategies without prior notice and without shareholder approval. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies and strategies would have on our business, operating results, and value of our stock. However, the effects might be adverse, which could negatively impact our ability to pay you distributions and cause you to lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Associated with Our Operations as a BDC. On March 7, 2018, a majority of the Company's shareholders authorized the Company's Board of Directors to withdraw the Company's election to be regulated as a BDC under the 1940 Act and our Board of Directors approved the filing of the Company's withdrawal form with the SEC to be made on or about April 1, 2018. At that point, we would no longer be a BDC or be subject to the provisions of the 1940 Act applicable to BDCs.. If and to the extent that the Company remains a BDC under the 1940 Act, the following discussion is a summary of the material risks associated with our operations as a BDC.. We operate in a highly regulated environment, and if we are found to be in violation of any of the 1940 Act, our business could suffer.. The 1940 Act imposes numerous constraints on the operations of BDC's. For example, BDC's are required to invest at least 70% of their total assets in qualifying assets, primarily securities of \"eligible portfolio companies\" (as defined under the 1940 Act), cash, cash equivalents, US government securities, and other high quality debt investments that mature in one year or less. Our regulatory requirements may hinder our ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and, as a result, achieve our investment objective. In addition, we rely upon several exemptive orders from the SEC permitting us to consolidate our financial reporting and operate our business as presently conducted. Our failure to satisfy the conditions set forth in those exemptive orders could result in our inability to rely upon such orders or to cause the SEC to revoke the orders which could result in material changes in our financial reporting or the way in which we conduct our business. Furthermore, any failure to comply with the requirements imposed on BDC's by the 1940 Act could have material adverse consequences to us or our investors, including possible enforcement action by the SEC.. Regulations governing our operation as a BDC may affect our ability to, and the way in which, we raise additional capital.. Senior Securities and Other Indebtedness. We may issue debt securities or preferred stock, and/or borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as senior securities, up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. If we issue senior securities, including debt or preferred stock, we will be exposed to additional risks, including the following:. <U+0095>   Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we are permitted, as a BDC, to issue senior securities only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after each issuance of senior securities. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test. If that happens, we may be restricted from issuing additional debt, may be limited in making distributions on our stock, and may be required to sell a portion of our investments and, depending on the nature of our leverage, to repay a portion of our debt at a time when such sales and/or repayments may be disadvantageous. In addition to the 1940 Act, we are subject to two exemptive orders which govern how we calculate our senior securities and under which we have agreed that we will meet the applicable asset coverage ratios both individually and on a consolidated basis. As of December 31, 2017, our asset coverage was approximately 306%, calculated on a consolidated basis, and 296% calculated on an unconsolidated basis.. Additional Common Stock. We are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value (less any distributing commission or discount) per share. We may, however, sell our common stock, warrants, options, or rights to acquire our common stock, at a price below the current net asset value of the common stock if our Board of Directors determines that such sale is in our best interests and that of our shareholders, and our shareholders approve such sale. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price which, in the determination of our Board of Directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any distributing commission or discount). We may also make rights offerings to our shareholders at prices per share less than the net asset value per share, subject to applicable requirements of the 1940 Act.. Since our investments in assets that are not \"qualifying assets\" exceeded 30% of our total assets as of December 31, 2017, we are precluded from making any follow-on investments in Medallion Bank and our City of Chicago taxicab medallions purchased out of foreclosure, and could be precluded from investing in what we believe are attractive investments, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. 30. Table of Contents. As a business development company, we are not permitted to acquire any assets other than \"qualifying assets\" unless, at the time of such acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets. Our investment in Medallion Bank and City of Chicago taxicab medallions purchased out of foreclosure, which are carried in investments other than securities on the consolidated balance sheet, are non-qualifying assets. As of December 31, 2017, the percentage of our total assets that were invested in non-qualifying assets were up to 58.7% on an unconsolidated basis and up to 47.6% on a consolidated basis. We did not satisfy the requirement that no more than 30% of our total assets be comprised of non-qualifying assets, and are currently not permitted to acquire any non-qualifying assets. We are therefore unable to make any investments in non-qualifying assets, including follow-on investments in Medallion Bank and our City of Chicago taxicab medallions purchased out of foreclosure. As a result of such failure, we could also be precluded from investing in what we believe are attractive investments or could be required to dispose of non-qualifying assets at times or on terms that may be disadvantageous to us. We would also not be able to support Medallion Bank's capital requirements, if any, and Medallion Bank may also not be able to grow as quickly because we are precluded from providing additional funding to Medallion Bank. Any of the foregoing consequences could have a material adverse effect on us. If we purchase a non-qualifying asset after failing to satisfy the requirement that no more than 30% of our total assets be comprised of non-qualifying assets, then we would be deemed to be in violation of the 1940 Act and the violation could also result in an event of default on our debt obligations.. Our investment portfolio is, and will continue to be, recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors and, as a result, there is, and will continue to be, uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments which could adversely affect our net asset value.. Under the 1940 Act, we are required to carry our portfolio investments at market value or, if there is no readily available market value, at fair value as determined by our Board of Directors. Unlike other lending institutions, we are not permitted to establish reserves for loan losses. Instead, we are required by the 1940 Act to specifically value each individual investment and record an unrealized gain or loss for any asset we believe has increased or decreased in value. Typically, there is not a public market for most of the investments in which we have invested and will generally continue to invest. As a result, our Board of Directors values our investments on a quarterly basis based on a determination of their fair value made in good faith and in accordance with the written guidelines approved by our Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors regularly review the appropriateness and accuracy of the method used in valuing our investments, and makes any necessary adjustments. The types of factors that may be considered in determining the fair value pricing of our investments include the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company's earnings and its ability to make payments on its indebtedness, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, market conditions for loans (e.g., values used by other lenders and any active bid/ask market), comparison to publicly traded companies, discounted cash flow, comparable sales and valuations of companies similar to the portfolio company, regulatory factors that may limit the value of the portfolio company, and other relevant factors. Because such valuations, and particularly valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, the valuations may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates. As a result, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these investments existed, and may cause our net asset value on a given date to materially understate or overstate the value that we may ultimately realize upon the sale or disposition of one or more of our investments. Investors purchasing our securities in connection with an offering based on an overstated net asset value would pay a higher price than the value of our investments might warrant, and investors purchasing our securities in connection with an offering based on an understated net asset value would pay a lower price than the value of our investments might warrant. Our net asset value could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon the disposal of such securities. Considering these factors, we have determined that the fair value of our portfolio is above its cost basis. As of December 31, 2017, our net unrealized appreciation on investments was $141,190,000 or 30% of our investment portfolio at cost, and the depreciation on our investments other than securities and other assets was $1,490,000 or 16% of our investments other than securities and other assets at cost.. The 1940 Act restricts our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates.. The 1940 Act restricts our ability to knowingly participate in certain transactions with our affiliates. These restrictions limit our ability to buy or sell any security from or to our affiliates, or engage in \"joint\" transactions with our affiliates, which could include investments in the same portfolio company (whether at the same or different times). With respect to controlling or certain closely affiliated persons, we will generally be prohibited from engaging in such transactions absent the prior approval of the SEC. With respect to other affiliated persons, we may engage in such transactions only with the prior approval of our independent directors.. 31. Table of Contents. Risks Relating to Our Investments. Lending to small businesses involves a high degree of risk and is highly speculative.. Lending to small businesses involves a high degree of business and financial risk, which can result in substantial losses and should be considered speculative. Our borrower base consists primarily of small business owners that may have limited resources and that are generally unable to obtain financing from traditional sources. There is generally no publicly available information about these small business owners, and we must rely on the diligence of our employees and agents to obtain information in connection with our credit decisions. In addition, these small businesses often do not have audited financial statements. Some smaller businesses have narrower product lines and market shares than their competition. Therefore, they may be more vulnerable to customer preferences, market conditions, or economic downturns, which may adversely affect the return on, or the recovery of, our investment in these businesses.. Our portfolio is and may continue to be concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies, and industries and sectors, which will subject us to a risk of significant loss if any of these companies defaults on its obligations to us or by a downturn in the particular industry or sector.. Our portfolio is and may continue to be concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies, and industries and sectors. In addition, taxicab companies that constitute separate issuers may have related management or guarantors and constitute larger business relationships to us. As of December 31, 2017, investments in New York City taxi medallion loans represented approximately 81% of our managed taxi medallion loans, which in turn represented 28% of our managed net investment portfolio. We do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and while we are not targeting any specific industries, our investments are, and could continue to be, concentrated in relatively few industries. As a result, the aggregate returns we realize may be adversely affected if a small number of investments perform poorly or if we need to write down the value of any one investment. If our larger borrowers were to significantly reduce their relationships with us and seek financing elsewhere, the size of our loan portfolio and operating results could decrease. In addition, larger business relationships may also impede our ability to immediately foreclose on a particular defaulted portfolio company as we may not want to impair an overall business relationship with either the portfolio company management or any related funding source. Additionally, a downturn in any particular industry or sector in which we are invested could also negatively impact the aggregate returns we realize.. If we are unable to continue to diversify geographically, our business may be further adversely affected if the New York City taxicab industry experiences a sustained economic downturn.. A significant portion of our loan revenue is derived from medallion loans collateralized by New York City taxicab medallions. An economic downturn in the New York City taxicab industry could lead to an additional increase in defaults on our medallion loans. We cannot assure you that we will be able to sufficiently diversify our operations geographically.. An economic downturn could result in additional commercial and consumer loan customers experiencing declines in business activities and/or personal resources, which could lead to difficulties in their servicing of their loans with us, and increasing the level of delinquencies, defaults, and loan losses in our commercial and consumer loan portfolios.. Laws and regulations implemented in response to climate change could result in increased operating costs for our portfolio companies.. Congress and other governmental authorities have either considered or implemented various laws and regulations in response to climate change and the reduction of greenhouse gases. Existing environmental regulations could be revised or reinterpreted, new laws and regulations could be adopted, and future changes in environmental laws and regulations could occur, which could impose additional costs on the operation of our portfolio companies. For example, regulations to cut gasoline use and control greenhouse gas emissions from new cars could adversely affect our medallion portfolio companies. Our portfolio companies may have to make significant capital and other expenditures to comply with these laws and regulations. Changes in, or new, environmental restrictions may force our portfolio companies to incur significant expenses or expenses that may exceed their estimates. There can be no assurance that such companies would be able to recover all or any increased environmental costs from their customers or that their business, financial condition or results of operations would not be materially and adversely affected by such expenditures or any changes in environmental laws and regulations, in which case the value of these companies could be adversely affected.. 32. Table of Contents. Our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies.. We invest in our portfolio companies primarily through senior secured loans, junior secured loans, and subordinated debt issued by small- to mid-sized companies. Our portfolio companies may have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the debt in which we invest. By their terms, such debt instruments may entitle the holders to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments with respect to the debt instruments in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization, or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution. After repaying such senior creditors, such portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt instruments in which we invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization, or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company.. A third party finance company sold various participations in asset based loans to Medallion Business Credit and Medallion Bank. In April 2013, the aggregate balance of the participations was approximately $13.8 million, $12.9 million of which were held by Medallion Bank. That amount was divided between seven separate borrowers operating in a variety of industries. In April 2013, the third party finance company became the subject of an involuntary bankruptcy petition filed by its bank lenders. Among other things, the bank lenders alleged that the third party finance company fraudulently misrepresented its borrowing availability under its credit facility with the bank lenders and are seeking the third party finance company's liquidation. In May 2013, the bankruptcy court presiding over the third party finance company's case entered an order converting the involuntary Chapter 7 case to a Chapter 11 case. On May 31, 2013, we commenced an adverse proceeding against the third party finance company and the bank lenders seeking declaratory judgment that our loan participations are true participations and not subject to the bankruptcy estate or to the bank lender's security interest in the third party finance company's assets. The third party finance company and bank lenders are contesting our position. In April 2014, we received a decision from the court granting summary judgment in our favor with respect to the issue of whether our loan participations are true participations. In March 2015, we and Medallion Bank received a decision from the court finding that the bank lenders generally held a first lien on our and Medallion Bank's loan participations subject to, among other things, defenses still pending prosecution by the parties and adjudication by the court. We and Medallion Bank are appealing the decision. The remaining issues are still being litigated. Although we believe the claims raised by the third party finance company and the senior lenders are without merit and will vigorously defend against them, we cannot at this time predict the outcome of this litigation or determine our potential exposure. If we are incorrect in our assessments our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. At December 31, 2017, five of the seven secured borrowers had refinanced their loans in full with third parties, and the related proceeds are held in escrow pending resolution of the bankruptcy proceedings. In September 2015, one loan was sold at a discount to a third party, and the related proceeds are held in escrow pending resolution of the bankruptcy proceedings. One loan was charged off in September 2014. See page 43 for additional information regarding this matter.. There may be circumstances where our debt investments could be subordinated to claims of other creditors or we could be subject to lender liability claims.. Even though we may have structured most of our investments as senior loans, if one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might recharacterize our debt investment and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors. We may also be subject to lender liability claims for actions taken by us with respect to a borrower's business or instances where we exercise control over the borrower. It is possible that we could become subject to a lender's liability claim, including as a result of actions taken in rendering significant managerial assistance.. We may not control many of our portfolio companies.. We may not control many of our portfolio companies, even though we may have board representation or board observation rights, and our debt agreements may contain certain restrictive covenants. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company in which we invest may make business decisions with which we disagree, and the management of such company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests as debt investors.. We may not realize gains from our equity investments.. Certain investments that we have made in the past and may make in the future include warrants or other equity securities. In addition, we may from time to time make non-control, equity co-investments in companies in conjunction with private equity sponsors. Our goal is ultimately to realize gains upon our disposition of such equity interests. However, the equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. We also may be unable to realize any value if a portfolio company does not have a liquidity event, such as a sale of the business, recapitalization, or public offering, which would allow us to sell the underlying equity interests.. 33. Table of Contents"
