[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. The risks described below are those which we believe are the material risks we face. Any of the risk factors described below or additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Business. Our quarterly and annual operating results fluctuate and may continue to fluctuate in the future, and if we fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, our stock price and the value of your investment could decline substantially.. Our quarterly and annual revenues and operating results have varied in the past and may vary significantly in the future depending on factors such as:. • budgeting cycles of our customers;. • the length of our sales cycle;. • increased competition;. • our ability to develop innovative products;. • the timing of new product releases by us or our competitors;. • market acceptance of our products;. • changes in our and our competitors' pricing policies;. • the financial condition of our current and potential customers;. • changes in the regulatory environment;. • changes in operating expenses and personnel changes;. • our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel;. • the effect of potential acquisitions and consequent integration;. • our ability to realize benefits from strategic partnerships, acquisitions or investments;. • equity issuances, including due to the conversion of our outstanding convertible notes or as consideration in acquisitions;. • variations in the revenue mix of our services and growth rates of our cloud subscription and professional services support offerings;. • changes in our business strategy;. • increases in our costs due to inflation; and. • general economic factors, including factors relating to disruptions in the world credit and equity markets and the related impact on our customers' access to capital.. Our future growth is dependent on the successful development and introduction of new products and enhancements. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing and marketing, on a timely basis, new products or product enhancements, that our new products will adequately address the changing needs of the marketplace or that we will successfully manage the transition from existing technologies. Certain of these products require a higher level of sales and support expertise. The ability of our sales channel to obtain this expertise and to sell the new product offerings effectively could have an adverse impact on our sales and financial results in future periods. Any of these scenarios may result in the loss of or delay in customer acceptance, diversion of development resources, damage to our reputation, or increased service and warranty costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. In addition, a significant portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed and planned expenditures are based in part on expectations regarding future revenues. Accordingly, unexpected revenue shortfalls may decrease our gross margins and could cause significant changes in our operating results from year to year. As a result, in future quarters our operating results could fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, in which event our stock price would likely decrease.. We derive a significant percentage of our revenues from a concentrated group of customers and the loss of one or more major customers could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Our top five customers accounted for approximately 26%, 26%, and 24% of our revenues in 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. In 2017, 2016, and 2015, no single customer accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues. The loss of any of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to maintain our customer relationships, and our customers may delay payment under, or fail to renew, their agreements with us, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Any reduction in the amount of revenues that we derive from these customers, without an offsetting increase in new sales to other customers, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. A significant change in the liquidity or financial position of our customers could also have a material adverse effect on the collectability of our accounts receivable, our liquidity and our future operating results.. 8. Table of Contents. If our customers cancel their contracts or terminate or delay their clinical trials, we may lose or delay revenues and our business may be harmed.. Certain of our customer contracts are subject to cancellation by our customers at any time with limited notice. Customers engaged in clinical trials may terminate or delay a clinical trial for various reasons, including the failure of the tested product to satisfy safety or efficacy requirements, unexpected or undesired clinical results, decisions to deemphasize a particular product or forgo a particular clinical trial, decisions to downsize clinical development programs, insufficient patient enrollment or investigator recruitment, and production problems resulting in shortages of required clinical supplies. In the case of our cloud-based solutions and services, any termination or delay in the clinical trials would likely result in a consequential delay or termination in those customers' service contracts. We have experienced terminations and delays of our customer service contracts in the past (although no such past terminations have had a significant impact on our results of operations) and we expect to experience additional terminations and delays in the future. The termination of single-study arrangements could result in decreased revenues and the delay of our customers' clinical trials could result in delayed professional services revenues, which could materially harm our business.. As our focus turns to selling additional cloud-based solutions and services to enterprise customers, our sales cycle may become more time-consuming and expensive and less predictable, and implementation challenges may arise, any of which could harm our business and operating results.. Our future success depends in part on our ability to sell additional cloud-based solutions and services to our current customers. This may also require increasingly sophisticated and costly sales efforts that are targeted at senior management. Similarly, the rate at which our customers purchase new or enhanced services depends on a number of factors. If our efforts to sell new solutions and expanded services to our existing customers are not successful, our growth prospects may suffer.. As we target more of our platform sales efforts at larger enterprise customers, we may face greater costs, longer sales cycles, and less predictability in our sales pipeline. The customer's decision to use our solutions and services may be an enterprise-wide decision and, if so, these types of sales would require us to provide prospective customers with greater levels of education regarding the use and benefits of our cloud-based solutions and services, as well as education regarding privacy and data protection laws. As a result of these factors, these sales opportunities may require us to devote greater sales support and professional services resources to individual customers, driving up costs and time required to complete sales and diverting our sales and professional services resources to a small number of large transactions.. Because we recognize revenue from subscriptions for our services over the term of the subscription, downturns or upturns in new business may not be immediately reflected in our operating results.. We generally recognize revenue from customers ratably over the terms of their subscription agreements, which generally range from one to five years. As a result, most of the revenue we report in each quarter is the result of subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any one quarter may not be reflected in our revenue results for that quarter. Any such decline, however, will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our services, and potential changes in our attrition rate, may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term.. If our security is breached, our business could be disrupted, our operating results could be harmed, and customers could be deterred from using our products and services.. Our business relies on the secure electronic transmission, storage, and hosting of sensitive information, including clinical data, financial information, and other sensitive information relating to our customers, company, and workforce. We anticipate collecting more such information directly from patients as part of our Patient Cloud and mHealth initiatives, including via mobile devices and related systems provided by third parties. As a result, we face some risk of a deliberate or unintentional incident involving unauthorized access to our computer systems (including, among other methods, cyber attacks or social engineering) that could result in misappropriation or loss of assets or sensitive information, data corruption, or other disruption of business operations. In light of this risk, we have devoted significant resources to protecting and maintaining the confidentiality of our information, including implementing security and privacy programs and controls, training our workforce, and implementing new technology. We have no guarantee that these programs and controls will be adequate to prevent all possible security threats. We believe that any compromise of our electronic systems, including the unauthorized access, use, or disclosure of sensitive information or a significant disruption of our computing assets and networks, would adversely affect our reputation and our ability to fulfill contractual obligations, would require us to devote significant financial and other resources to mitigate such problems, and could increase our future cyber security costs. Moreover, unauthorized access, use, or disclosure of such sensitive information could result in contractual or other liability. In addition, any real or perceived compromise of our security or disclosure of sensitive information may result in lost revenues by deterring customers from using or purchasing our products and services in the future or prompting them to use competing service providers.. Any failure by us to properly protect customer data, including any personal health information we possess or are deemed to possess in connection with the conduct of clinical trials, could subject us to significant liability.. Our customers use our solutions to collect, manage, and report information in connection with the conduct of clinical trials. This information may be considered our customers' proprietary information and/or personal health information of the clinical trial participants. 9. Table of Contents. or patients. In addition, our Patient Cloud and mHealth initiatives are anticipated to result in our collecting more data (which may or may not be personal health information) directly from patients, including via mobile devices and related systems provided by third parties. Regulation related to the use and disclosure of personal health information continues to expand in scope and complexity. Increased focus on individuals' rights related to their personal information, including personal health information, could lead to an increase in existing and future legislative or regulatory initiatives giving direct legal remedies to individuals, including rights to damages, against entities deemed responsible for not adequately securing such personal information. In addition, courts may look to regulatory standards in identifying or applying a common law theory of liability. Since we receive and process our customers' proprietary information and/or personal information of clinical trial participants from customers utilizing our hosted solutions, there is a risk that we could be liable if there were a breach of an obligation to a protected person under contract, standard of practice or regulatory requirement. If we fail to properly protect our customers' data or personal information that is in our possession or deemed to be in our possession, we could be subjected to significant liability and our reputation could be harmed.. We rely upon two internal hosting facilities and third party cloud computing services to deliver our solutions to our customers and any disruption of or interference with our hosting systems, operations, or third party cloud computing services would harm our business and results of operations.. Substantially all of the computer hardware necessary to deliver our solutions is located at our internal hosting facilities in Houston, Texas and Frankfurt, Germany. In addition to our dedicated hosting facilities, we utilize third-party cloud computing services from vendors such as Amazon Web Services (\"AWS\") to help us efficiently scale our cloud-based solutions. Because we cannot easily switch our AWS-serviced operations to another cloud provider, any disruption of or interference with our use of AWS would impact our operations, and our business would be adversely impacted. Our systems and operations or those of AWS could suffer damage or interruption from human error, fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins, terrorist attacks, acts of war, and similar events. The occurrence of a natural disaster, an act of terrorism or other unanticipated problems at our or AWS's hosting facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. Although we and AWS maintain backup facilities and disaster recovery services in the event of a system failure, these may be insufficient or fail. Any system failure, including network, software, or hardware failure, that causes an interruption in our Houston or Frankfurt data centers or our use of AWS or that causes a decrease in responsiveness of our cloud-based solutions could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers, which would harm our business and results of operations. Our business may be harmed if our customers and potential customers believe our service is unreliable.. Data protection laws and regulations may limit the use of our platform and give rise to operational interruption, liabilities and reputational harm, which could have a materially adverse impact on our business.. Our customers can use our platform to collect, process and transfer personal information globally, including sensitive personal information such as clinical information. As regulatory focus on privacy issues continues to increase and worldwide laws and regulations concerning the handling of personal information expand and become more complex, potential risks related to data collection and use for our customers and for our business will intensify. For example, the EU and the U.S. formally entered into a new framework in July 2016 that provides a mechanism for companies to transfer data from EU member states to the U.S. This new framework, called the Privacy Shield, is intended to address shortcoming identified by the Court of Justice of the EU in the previous EU-U.S. Safe Harbor Framework, which the Court of Justice invalidated in October 2015. The Privacy Shield and other data transfer mechanisms are likely to be reviewed by the European course, which may lead to uncertainty about the legal basis for data transfers to the U.S. or interruption of such transfers. In the event such court decisions block the transfers to or from a particular jurisdiction and in the event that no other transfer mechanisms, such as the model clauses, are legally adequate, this could give rise to operational interruption in the performance of our services for customers and internal processing of employee information, regulatory liabilities and/or reputational harm. In addition, U.S. and foreign governments have enacted or are considering enacting legislation or regulations, or may in the future interpret existing legislation or regulations, in a manner that could significantly impact our ability and the ability of our customers and data partners to collect, augment, use, transfer and share personal and other information that is integral to certain services we provide. These developments in Europe and elsewhere could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, including reducing demand for our platform or limiting its use, increasing our operating costs, and slowing or preventing the closing of sales transactions.. Regulators globally are also imposing greater compliance obligations and monetary fines for privacy violations. For example, in 2016 the EU adopted a new law governing data practices and privacy called the GDPR, which becomes effective in May 2018. The law creates a range of new compliance obligations, significantly increases financial penalties for non-compliance, and extends the scope of the EU data protection law to all companies processing data of EU residents, regardless of the company's location. The GDPR and other privacy and data protection laws may be interpreted and applied differently from country to country and may create inconsistent or conflicting requirements with respect to our customers' use of our platform. We have incurred - and may continue to incur - significant expense to comply with mandatory privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards or contractual obligations. In addition, the future enactment of more restrictive laws, rules or regulations, such as those requiring data localization, and/or future enforcement actions or investigations could have a materially adverse impact on us through increased costs or restrictions on our business and noncompliance could result in regulatory penalties, significant legal liability and harm to our reputation.. 10. Table of Contents. Defects or errors in our cloud-based solutions that significantly impact our customers could harm our reputation, result in significant cost to us and impair our ability to market our solutions.. The software applications underlying our cloud-based solutions and services, including Medidata Rave, are inherently complex and may contain defects or errors, some of which may be material. Errors may result from our own technology or from the interface of our cloud-based solutions with legacy systems and data, which we did not develop. The risk of errors is particularly significant when a new product is first introduced or when new versions or enhancements of existing products are released. The likelihood of errors is increased as a result of our commitment to the frequent release of new products and enhancements of existing products.. We have, from time to time, found defects in our solutions. Although these past defects have not resulted in any litigation against us to date, we have invested significant capital, technical, managerial, and other resources to investigate and correct these past defects and we have needed to divert these resources from other development efforts. In addition, material performance problems or defects in our solutions may arise in the future. Material defects in our cloud-based solutions could result in a reduction in sales, delay in market acceptance of our solutions or credits or refunds to our customers. In addition, such defects may lead to the loss of existing customers and difficulty in attracting new customers, diversion of development resources or harm to our reputation.. Correction of defects or errors could prove to be impossible or impractical. The costs incurred in correcting any defects or errors or in responding to resulting claims or liability may be substantial and could adversely affect our operating results.. If we are not able to reliably meet our data storage and management requirements, or if we experience any failure or interruption in the delivery of our services over the Internet, customer satisfaction and our reputation could be harmed and customer contracts may be terminated.. As part of our current business model, we store and manage hundreds of terabytes of data for our customers, resulting in substantial information technology infrastructure and ongoing technological challenges, which we expect to continue to increase over time. If we do not reliably meet these data storage and management requirements, or if we experience any failure or interruption in the delivery of our services over the Internet, customer satisfaction and our reputation could be harmed, leading to reduced revenues and increased expenses. The services we provide to customers are subject to service level agreements and, in the event that we fail to meet guaranteed service or performance levels, we could be subject to issuance of customer credits or termination of these customer contracts. If the cost of meeting these data storage and management requirements increases, our results of operations could be harmed.. We are subject to risks associated with our strategic investments. Other-than-temporary impairments in the value of our investments could negatively impact our financial results.. We invest in early-to-late stage companies for strategic reasons to support key business initiatives, and may not realize a return on our strategic investments or realize benefits from such strategic business relationships. If any of the third parties with which we enter a strategic relationship fails to perform as expected, breaches or terminates their agreement with us, or becomes engaged in a dispute with us, our reputation could be adversely affected and our business could be harmed. These companies also generate net losses and the market for their products, services or technologies may be slow to develop, and, therefore, are dependent on the availability of later rounds of financing from banks or investors on favorable terms to continue their operations. The financial success of our investment in any company is typically dependent on a liquidity event, just as a public offering, acquisition or other favorable market event reflecting appreciation to the cost of our initial investment. The capital markets for public offerings and acquisitions are dynamic and the likelihood of liquidity events for the companies we have invested in could significantly worsen. Further, valuations of privately held companies are inherently complex due to the lack of readily available market data. If we determine that any of our investments in such companies have experienced a decline in value, we may be required to record an impairment, which could negatively impact our financial results. All of our investments are subject to a risk of partial or total loss of investment capital.. We may expand our business through new acquisitions in the future. Any such acquisitions could disrupt our business, harm our financial condition and dilute current stockholders' ownership interests in our company.. We intend to pursue potential acquisitions of and investments in businesses, technologies, or products complementary to our business and periodically engage in discussions regarding such possible acquisitions. For example, we acquired Fast Track Systems, Inc. (\"Fast Track\") in March 2008; Clinical Force Limited (\"Clinical Force\") in July 2011; Patient Profiles, LLC (\"Patient Profiles\") in October 2014; Intelemage, LLC (\"Intelemage\") in April 2016; CHITA Inc. (\"CHITA\") in February 2017; and Mytrus, Incorporated (\"Mytrus\") in April 2017.. We may encounter difficulties in identifying and acquiring complementary products, technologies, or businesses, and in the case of executed acquisitions, may encounter numerous risks, including some or all of the following:. • substantial cash expenditures;. • incurrence of costs, debt, and contingent liabilities, some of which we may not identify at the time of acquisition or which may ultimately be greater than we anticipate;. • difficulties in integrating and assimilating the operations, products, and personnel of the acquired companies;. • diversion of management's attention away from other business concerns;. • risk associated with entering markets in which we have limited or no direct experience;. 11. Table of Contents. • potential loss of key employees, customers, and strategic alliances from either our current business or the target company's business;. • delays in customer purchases due to uncertainty and the inability to maintain relationships with customers of the acquired businesses; and. • failure to achieve anticipated business development benefits due to an inadequate evaluation of acquisitions or investments.. An acquisition may not result in short-term or long-term benefits to us. The failure to execute acquisitions or investments successfully or otherwise adequately address these risks could materially harm our business and financial results. We may incorrectly judge the value or worth of an acquired company or business. In addition, our future success will depend in part on our ability to manage the growth anticipated with these acquisitions.. Furthermore, the development or expansion of our business or any acquired business or companies may require a substantial capital investment by us. We may not have these necessary funds or they might not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. We may also seek to raise funds for an acquisition by issuing equity securities or convertible debt, as a result of which our existing stockholders may be diluted or the market price of our stock may be adversely affected.. Supporting our existing and growing customer base could strain our personnel resources and infrastructure, and if we are unable to scale our operations and increase productivity, we may not be able to successfully implement our business plan.. We continue to experience significant growth in our business, operations and personnel, which has placed a strain on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. Our success will depend in part upon the ability of our senior management to manage our projected growth effectively. To do so, we must continue to increase the productivity of our existing employees and to hire, train and manage new employees as needed. To manage the expected domestic and international growth of our operations and personnel, we will need to continue to improve our operational financial and management controls, our reporting systems and procedures, and our utilization of real estate. If we fail to successfully scale our operations and increase productivity, we will be unable to execute our business plan.. We regularly update or replace our various software systems. If the implementations of these new applications are delayed, or if we encounter unforeseen problems with our new systems or in migrating away from our existing applications and systems, our operations and our ability to manage our business could be negatively impacted.. Our revenues derived from international operations are subject to risks that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. We intend to continue our strategic expansion into new geographic areas and expect that international customers will continue to account for a substantial percentage of our revenues. International operations are subject to inherent risks. These risks include:. • the economic conditions in these various foreign countries and their trading partners, including conditions resulting from disruptions in the world credit and equity markets;. • political instability;. • longer payment cycles;. • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and enforcement of agreements;. • requirements to comply with foreign laws;. • data privacy laws and regulations which restrict the collection by our customers, processing or transfer into the U.S. of customer personal information or that require customer information to be collected or processed in a designated territory;. • changes in regulatory requirements;. • risk of non-compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\") or similar regulations in other jurisdictions;. • fewer legal protections for intellectual property and contract rights;. • tariffs or other trade barriers;. • difficulties in managing foreign operations;. • unavailability of staff with needed skills;. • exposure to interest rate fluctuations;. • transportation delays;. • potentially adverse tax consequences; and. • exposure to foreign currency exchange risk associated with transactions entered into in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.. Our failure to successfully mitigate these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we are continuing to execute on our growth initiatives in Asia, where our strategy is to broaden adoption of our application services, especially in China and South Korea. We are subject to risks inherent in foreign trade, including increased credit risks, tariffs and duties, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and international political, regulatory and economic developments, all of which can have a significant influence on our operating results. Some of our international sales are made in local currencies, which could fluctuate against the dollar. Accordingly, our operating results could be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations.. 12. Table of Contents. The United Kingdom's vote to exit from the European Union could negatively impact us.. On June 23, 2016, in a referendum vote commonly referred to as \"Brexit,\" a majority of British voters voted to exit the EU. In March 2017, the United Kingdom (\"U.K.\") government officially triggered the process to formally initiate negotiations for the terms of separation from the EU. As a result, the British government has begun negotiating the terms of the U.K.'s future relationship with the EU. The effects of Brexit will depend on any agreements the U.K. makes to retain access to the EU markets either during a transitional period or more permanently. Without access to the single EU market, it may be more challenging and costly to provide our services in Europe. In addition, Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. determines which EU laws to replace and replicate. If there are changes to U.K. immigration policy as a result of Brexit, this could affect our employees and their ability to move freely between the EU member states for work-related matters.. Our inability to attract and retain highly skilled employees could adversely affect our business.. To execute our growth plan, we must attract and retain highly qualified employees. We do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers, key management, development or operations personnel and they could terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of one or more of our key employees or groups could seriously harm our business. In the technology industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for engineers with high levels of expertise in designing, developing and managing software and Internet-related services, as well as competition for sales executives, data scientists and operations personnel. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. We have from time to time experienced, and expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. These difficulties may be amplified by evolving restrictions on immigration, travel or availability of visas for skilled technology workers. If we fail to attract new employees or fail to retain and motivate our current employees, our business and future growth prospects could be adversely affected.. We rely in part on third parties for our help desk support and technology partnerships, and our business may suffer if these relationships do not continue.. We currently outsource our help desk support functions, which involve important direct interactions with users of our products. In the event that our vendor becomes unable or unwilling to provide these services to us, we are not equipped to provide the necessary range of help desk support and service functions to our customers. We also work with third-party software companies to allow our cloud-based platform to interface with their products. If we are unable to develop and maintain effective relationships with appropriate technology partners, or if such companies adopt more restrictive policies with respect to, or impose unfavorable terms and conditions on, access to their products, we may not be able to continue to provide our customers with certain platform infrastructure, which could reduce our sales and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. We rely on third-party SaaS vendors in connection with numerous critical functions of our business, which presents risks that, if realized, could adversely affect our business operations and financial results.. We currently rely on third-party SaaS vendors in connection with many critical functions of our business, including enterprise resource planning services, customer relationship management services, enterprise cloud applications for human resources, and electronic communication services. Further, some of our cloud-based solutions are hosted by AWS. If any of these services fail or become unavailable due to extended outages or interruptions, or the security of our data stored with the vendors is compromised, or our own access to our data stored with the vendors is restricted or terminated, or the cloud-based services we use are no longer available on commercially reasonable terms or prices, our revenue could be reduced, our reputation could be damaged, expenses could increase, our ability to manage our finances, sales opportunities and workforce could be interrupted and our processes for delivering services and supporting our customers could be impaired until equivalent services are identified, obtained and implemented, all of which could adversely affect our business.. We have been, and may continue to be, subject to claims that we or our technologies infringe upon the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of a third party. Any such claims may require us to incur significant costs, to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, or to develop or license substitute technology.. We have been, and may in the future be, subject to claims that our technologies infringe upon the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of a third party. For example, in December 2011 we settled a lawsuit filed against us by Datasci LLC. In addition, in January 2016, we settled a separate lawsuit filed against us by DataTrak International, Inc. (\"DataTrak\") after its patent was held invalid in November 2015.. We cannot assure you that our cloud-based solutions and the technologies used in our product offerings do not infringe upon patents held by others or that they will not so infringe in the future. Any future claim of infringement could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, even if the claim is without merit, and could distract our management from our business. Moreover, any settlement or adverse judgment resulting from the claim could require us to pay substantial amounts or obtain a license to continue to use the technology that is the subject of the claim, or otherwise restrict or prohibit our use of the technology. Any required licenses may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If we do not obtain any required licenses, we could encounter delays in product introductions if we attempt to design around the technology at issue or attempt to find another provider of suitable alternative technology to permit us to continue offering the applicable solution. In addition, we generally provide in our customer agreements that we will indemnify our customers against third-party infringement claims relating to our technology provided to the customer, which could obligate us to fund significant amounts. Infringement claims asserted against us or against our customers or other third parties that we. 13. Table of Contents. are required or otherwise agree to indemnify may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. We may be unable to adequately enforce or defend our ownership and use of our intellectual property and other proprietary rights.. Our success is heavily dependent upon our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. We rely upon a combination of trademark, trade secret, copyright, patent and unfair competition laws, as well as license and access agreements and other contractual provisions, to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. In addition, we attempt to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information by requiring certain of our employees and consultants to enter into confidentiality, non-competition and assignment of inventions agreements. The steps we take to protect these rights may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology by third parties, or may not be adequate under the laws of some foreign countries, which may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S.. Our attempts to protect our intellectual property may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation, and agreement terms that address non-competition are difficult to enforce in many jurisdictions and may not be enforceable in any particular case. In addition, there remains the possibility that others will \"reverse engineer\" our products in order to introduce competing products, or that others will develop competing technology independently.. If we resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of others, the proceedings could be burdensome and expensive, even if we were to prevail. The failure to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Our cloud-based solutions and services utilize open source software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could adversely affect our business.. Our cloud-based solutions utilize software covered by open source licenses. Open source software is typically freely accessible, usable and modifiable, and is used by our development team in an effort to reduce development costs and speed up the development process. Certain open source software licenses require a user who intends to distribute the open source software as a component of the user's software to disclose publicly part or all of the source code to the user's software. In addition, certain open source software licenses require the user of such software to make any derivative works of the open source code available to others on unfavorable terms or at no cost. This can subject previously proprietary software to open source license terms. While we monitor the use of all open source software in our products, processes and technology and try to ensure that no open source software is used in such a way as to require us to disclose or make available the source code to the related product or solution, such use could inadvertently occur. This could harm our intellectual property position and have a material adverse effect on our business.. We could incur substantial costs resulting from product liability claims relating to our products or services or our customers' use of our products or services.. Any failure or errors in a customer's clinical trial caused or allegedly caused by our products or services could result in a claim for substantial damages against us by our customers or the clinical trial participants, regardless of our responsibility for the failure. Although we are generally entitled to indemnification under our customer contracts against claims brought against us by third parties arising out of our customers' use of our products, we might find ourselves entangled in lawsuits against us that, even if unsuccessful, may divert our resources and energy and adversely affect our business. Further, in the event we seek indemnification from a customer, a court may not enforce our indemnification right if the customer challenges it or the customer may not be able to fund any amounts for indemnification owed to us. In addition, our existing insurance coverage may not continue to be available on reasonable terms or may not be available in amounts sufficient to cover one or more large claims, or the insurer may disclaim coverage as to any future claim.. Current and future litigation against us, which may arise in the ordinary course of our business, could be costly and time consuming to defend.. We are from time to time subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business, such as claims brought by our customers in connection with commercial disputes and employment claims made by our current or former employees. From time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business and have demanded and may in the future demand that we license their technology. For example, in March 2011, we were named in a complaint for patent infringement filed by DataTrak, and in January 2016 we settled the lawsuit after DataTrak's patent was held invalid in November 2015. Litigation may result in substantial costs and may divert management's attention and resources, which may seriously harm our business, overall financial condition and operating results. Insurance may not cover such claims, may not be sufficient for one or more such claims, and may not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. A claim brought against us that is uninsured or underinsured could result in unanticipated costs, negatively affecting our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Our contracts with the U.S. government are subject to termination rights and other risks that could adversely affect us.. Because our U.S. government contracts and subcontracts are generally subject to procurement laws and regulations, we may not receive all of the future revenues we anticipate receiving under those contracts and subcontracts in the expected periods. Some of our. 14. Table of Contents. government contracts are governed by the Federal Acquisition Regulation (\"FAR\"), which includes uniform policies and procedures for acquiring goods and services by the U.S. government. The FAR also contains guidelines and regulations for managing a contract after an award, including conditions under which contracts may be terminated, in whole or in part, at the government's convenience. These regulations also subject us to financial audits and other reviews by the government of our costs, performance, accounting and general business practices relating to our government contracts, which may result in adjustment of our contract-related costs and fees. Any such future procurement actions by government customers are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could affect the allocation, timing, schedule, and scope of our government contracts and subcontracts.. Contract research organization partners generate a significant portion of our sales.. We face ongoing business risks due to our partial reliance on our CRO partners to generate sales. We rely on our CRO partners for a significant portion of our revenue. These partners have considerable discretion in electing whether to utilize our solutions for their outsourced clinical trial management services. Should our relationships with our CRO partners or the effectiveness of our CRO partners decline, we face the risk of declining demand for our services, which would affect our revenue and results of operations. In addition, any disruptions of our CRO partners' operations, such as a decline in their sales or competitive position, could have an adverse impact on our business.. Unanticipated changes in our effective tax rate and additional tax liabilities may impact our financial results.. We are subject to income tax in the U.S. and various jurisdictions outside of the U.S. Our effective tax rate could fluctuate due to changes in the mix of earnings and losses in countries with differing statutory tax rates. Our tax expense could also be impacted by changes in non-deductible expenses, changes in excess tax benefits on stock-based compensation, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and our ability to utilize them, the applicability of withholding taxes and effects from acquisitions.. We are open to tax examinations in multiple jurisdictions. While we regularly evaluate new information that may change our judgment resulting in recognition, derecognition or change in measurement of a tax position taken, there can be no assurance that the final determination of any examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position.. Our tax provision could also be impacted by changes in accounting principles and/or changes in U.S. federal and state or international tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals such as the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") enacted on December 22, 2017, with fundamental law changes also currently being considered by many other countries. Furthermore, changes in taxing jurisdictions' administrative interpretations, decisions, policies and positions could also impact our tax provision. Additionally, in October 2015, the Organisation for Economic Co-Operation and Development released final guidance covering various topics, including transfer pricing, country-by-country reporting and definitional changes to permanent establishment which would ultimately impact our tax liabilities.. We may also be subject to additional liabilities for non-income based taxes due to changes in U.S. federal, state or international tax laws, changes in taxing jurisdictions' administrative interpretations, decisions, policies, and positions, results of tax examinations, settlements or judicial decisions, changes in accounting principles, changes to our business operations, including acquisitions, as well as the evaluation of new information that results in a change to a tax position taken in a prior period.. Risks Related to Our Industry. We face significant competition, which could cause us to lose business or achieve lower margins.. The market for our clinical trial solutions is intensely competitive and characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards and frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements that may render existing products and services obsolete. Accordingly, our market share and margins are subject to sudden declines. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and greater name recognition than we do. These competitors may respond more quickly than we can to new and emerging technologies and changing customer and regulatory requirements, or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their solutions. New competitors may enter our market in the future, as barriers to entry are relatively low in our industry. Increased competition may result in pricing pressures, which could negatively impact our sales, gross margins or market share. In addition, current and potential competitors have established, and may in the future establish, relationships with vendors of complementary products, technologies or services to increase the penetration of their products in the marketplace. Even if our products and services are more effective than the products or service offerings of our competitors, current or potential customers might accept competitive products and services in lieu of purchasing our cloud-based solutions and services. Our failure to compete effectively could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We depend entirely on the clinical trial market, and a downturn in this market could cause our revenues to decrease.. Our business depends entirely on the clinical trials conducted or sponsored by pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies, CROs, and other entities. Our revenues may decline as a result of conditions affecting these industries, including general economic downturns, increased consolidation, decreased competition or fewer products under development. Other developments that may affect these industries and harm our operating results include product liability claims, changes in government regulation, changes in governmental price controls or third-party reimbursement practices and changes in medical practices. Disruptions in the world credit. 15. Table of Contents. and equity markets may also result in a global downturn in spending on research and development and clinical trials and may impact our customers' access to capital and their ability to pay for our solutions. Any decrease in research and development expenditures or in the size, scope or frequency of clinical trials could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Extensive governmental regulation of the clinical trial process and our products and services could require significant compliance costs and have a material adverse effect on the demand for our solutions.. The clinical trial process is subject to extensive and strict regulation by the U.S. FDA and other regulatory authorities worldwide. Our cloud-based solutions and services are also subject to state, federal, and foreign regulations. Demand for our solutions is largely a function of such government regulation, which is subject to change at any time. Changes in the level of regulation, including a relaxation in regulatory requirements or the introduction of simplified drug approval procedures, could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our solutions. Proposals to place caps on drug prices could limit the profitability of existing or planned drug development programs, making investment in new drugs and therapies less attractive to pharmaceutical companies. Similarly, the requirements in the U.S., the EU, the Asia Pacific region, and elsewhere to create a detailed registry of all clinical trials could have an impact on customers' willingness to perform certain clinical studies. In addition, the uncertainty surrounding the possible adoption and impact on healthcare of any GCP reforms could cause our customers to delay planned research and development until some of these uncertainties are resolved.. Modifying our cloud-based solutions and services to comply with changes in regulations or regulatory guidance could require us to incur substantial costs. Further, changing regulatory requirements may render our solutions obsolete or make new products or services more costly or time consuming than we currently anticipate. Failure by us, our customers, or our competitors to comply with applicable regulations could result in increased regulatory scrutiny and enforcement. If our solutions fail to comply with government regulations or guidelines, we could incur significant liability or be forced to cease offering our applicable products or services. If our solutions fail to allow our customers to comply with applicable regulations or guidelines, customers may be unwilling to use our solutions and any such non-compliance could result in the termination of or additional costs arising from contracts with our customers.. Consolidation among our customers could cause us to lose customers, decrease the market for our products and result in a reduction of our revenues.. Our customer base could decline because of industry consolidation, and we may not be able to expand sales of our products and services to new customers. Consolidation in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries, and among CROs has accelerated in recent years, and this trend may continue. In addition, new companies or organizations that result from such consolidation may decide that our products and services are no longer needed because of their own internal processes or the use of alternative systems. As these entities consolidate, competition to provide products and services to industry participants will become more intense and the importance of establishing relationships with large industry participants will become greater. These industry participants may try to use their market power to negotiate price reductions for our products and services. Also, if consolidation of larger current customers occurs, the combined organization may represent a larger percentage of business for us and, as a result, we are likely to rely more significantly on the combined organization's revenues to continue to achieve growth.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock and Our Debt. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and investors could see their investments decline in value.. Shares of our common stock were sold in our initial public offering (\"IPO\") in June 2009 at a price of $7.00 per share (on a post-split basis), and our common stock has subsequently traded as high as $85.92 and as low as $6.68 from our IPO through December 31, 2017. However, an active, liquid, and orderly market for our common stock on The NASDAQ Stock Market or otherwise may not be sustained, which could depress the trading price of our common stock. The trading price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:. • our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry;. • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions;. • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;. • forward-looking guidance to industry and financial analysts related to future revenue and earnings;. • disruptions in our service due to computer hardware, software, network or data center problems;. • general economic and stock market conditions, including disruptions in the world credit and equity markets;. • the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock or changes in financial estimates and other metrics and modeling used by analysts in their research reports about our business;. • future issuances of our common stock, whether in connection with an acquisition, a capital raising transaction or upon conversion of some or all of our outstanding convertible senior notes; and. • the other factors described in these \"Risk Factors.\". In recent years, the stock market in general, and the market for technology-related companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. The price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little to do with our performance, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our stock price.. 16. Table of Contents. In the past, some companies, including companies in our industry, have had volatile market prices for their securities and have had securities class action suits filed against them. The filing of a lawsuit against us, regardless of the outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as it could result in substantial legal costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources.. Our actual operating results may differ significantly from guidance provided by our management.. From time to time, we release guidance in our earnings releases, earnings conference calls, or otherwise, regarding our future performance that represent our management's estimates as of the date of release. This guidance, which includes forward-looking statements, is based on projections prepared by our management. Our guidance is not prepared with a view toward compliance with published accounting and reporting guidelines, and neither our registered public accountants nor any other independent expert or outside party compiles or examines the projections and, accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect thereto.. Guidance is based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control and are based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. We generally state possible outcomes as high and low ranges which are intended to provide a sensitivity analysis as variables are changed but are not intended to represent that actual results could not fall outside of the suggested ranges. The principal reason that we release guidance is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by analysts.. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions of the guidance furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, our guidance is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results will vary from our guidance and the variations may be material. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged to put the guidance in context and not to place undue reliance on any such guidance. Any failure to successfully implement our operating strategy or the occurrence of any of the events or circumstances discussed therein could result in the actual operating results being different from our guidance, and such differences may be adverse and material.. Provisions of Delaware law and our organizational documents may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our stockholders may consider to be in their best interests, which could negatively affect our stock price.. Provisions of Delaware law and our fifth amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company or deterring tender offers for our common stock that other stockholders may consider in their best interests.. Our fifth amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more different series with terms to be fixed by our board of directors. Stockholder approval is not necessary to issue preferred stock in this manner. Issuance of these shares of preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult and more expensive for a person or group to acquire control of us, and could effectively be used as an anti-takeover device. Currently there are no shares of our preferred stock issued or outstanding.. Our bylaws provide for an advance notice procedure for stockholders to nominate director candidates for election or to bring business before an annual meeting of stockholders, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our board of directors, and require that special meetings of stockholders be called only by our chairman of the board, chief executive officer, president or the board pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the board.. The anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and provisions in our organizational documents may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future.. As a public company, we may incur significant administrative workload and expenses in connection with new and changing compliance requirements.. As a public company with common stock listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market, we must comply with various laws, regulations and requirements. New laws and regulations, as well as changes to existing laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, and rules adopted by the SEC and by The NASDAQ Stock Market, may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management's time and attention as we respond to new requirements.. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock.. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not intend to do so for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, you are not likely to receive any dividends on. 17. Table of Contents. your investment in our common stock for the foreseeable future and the success of an investment in shares of our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value. Shares of our common stock may depreciate in value or may not appreciate in value.. Our ability to generate the significant amount of cash needed to service our debt obligations or to obtain additional financing depends on many factors beyond our control.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $100 million of aggregate principal amount of our Term Loan and $400 million of aggregate principal amount of Revolving Commitments available under our Credit Facility (defined in Note 9, \"Debt,\" to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K), and $287.5 million aggregate principal amount of 1.00% convertible senior notes due August 1, 2018 (\"Notes\") outstanding. We have aggregate indebtedness of approximately $387.5 million that we have incurred in connection with the issuance of the Notes and under our Credit Facility. We may borrow amounts in the future and use the proceeds from any future borrowing for general corporate purposes, future acquisitions, expansion of our business or repurchases of our outstanding shares of common stock. In addition, holders of the Notes will have the right to require us to repurchase their Notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change at a fundamental change repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any.. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, or to pay interest on or to refinance our future indebtedness depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations. Refer to  Note 9, \"Debt,\" to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding our Notes and Credit Facility.. Restrictive covenants in the credit agreement governing our senior secured first lien credit facility may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies.. The credit agreement governing our Credit Facility imposes restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, grant liens on assets, engage in certain fundamental corporate changes, sell or otherwise dispose of assets, make certain investments and acquisitions, or pay dividends, and requires us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. In addition, the indenture governing the Notes contains covenants that may adversely affect our ability to incur certain liens. If we breach any of the covenants and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders, then, subject to the applicable cure periods, our outstanding indebtedness could be declared immediately due and payable. Further, following an event of default under our Credit Facility, the lenders will have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that debt. If the debt under our Credit Facility were to be accelerated, it may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial position and, further, we may not have sufficient funds to repay in full such indebtedness that may become due as a result of that acceleration.. Conversion of the Notes may affect the price of our common stock.. Upon conversion of the Notes, we intend to make cash payments in the principal amount of the converted Notes and issue shares of common stock in consideration for the amounts payable in excess of the principal amount of the Notes. Any sales in the public market of shares of common stock issued upon conversion of the Notes could decrease the trading price of our common stock.. The conversion provisions of the Notes require us to deliver cash and common stock upon conversion at maturity and could dilute the ownership interests of stockholders.. Because we intend to issue shares of common stock in consideration for the amounts payable in excess of the principal amount of the Notes upon any conversion of the Notes at maturity, our basic earnings per share will decrease to the extent we issue shares upon conversion because such underlying shares would be included in the basic earnings per share calculation and the conversion would result in dilution to our stockholders. Any new issuance of equity securities, including the issuance of shares upon the conversion of the Notes, would dilute the interests of our then-existing stockholders, including holders who receive shares upon conversion of the Notes."
