[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Before you invest in our securities, you should be aware of various risks, including those described below. You should carefully consider these risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this Form 10-K, before you decide whether to make an investment in our securities. The risks set out below are not the only risks we face. The risks described below, as well as additional risks and uncertainties presently unknown by us or currently not deemed significant could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In such case, our NAV and the trading price of our common stock or other securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.. RISK RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS AND STRUCTURE. Certain Risks in the Current Environment. Capital markets may experience periods of disruption and instability and we cannot predict when these conditions will occur. Such market conditions could materially and adversely affect debt and equity capital markets in the United States and abroad, which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As a business development company, we must maintain our ability to raise additional capital for investment purposes. Without sufficient access to the capital markets or credit markets, we may be forced to curtail our business operations or we may not be able to pursue new business opportunities.. The U.S. and global capital markets experienced extreme volatility and disruption that began in mid-2007, and the U.S. economy was in recession for several consecutive calendar quarters during the same period, as evidenced by a lack of liquidity in the debt capital markets, write-offs in the financial services sector, the re-pricing of credit risk and the failure of certain major financial institutions. While the capital markets have improved, these conditions could deteriorate again in the future. During such market disruptions, we may have difficulty raising debt or equity capital, especially as a result of regulatory constraints.. Market conditions may in the future make it difficult to extend the maturity of or refinance our existing indebtedness and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if required. As a result, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have recorded our investments. In addition, significant changes in the capital markets, including the disruption and volatility, have had, and may in the future have, a negative effect on the valuations of our investments and on the potential for liquidity events involving our investments. An inability to raise capital, and any required sale of our investments for liquidity purposes, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Various social and political tensions in the United States and around the world, including in the Middle East, Eastern Europe and Russia, may continue to contribute to increased market volatility, may have long-term effects on the United States and worldwide financial markets, and may cause further economic uncertainties or deterioration in the United States and worldwide. Several European Union (''EU'') countries, including Greece, Ireland, Italy, Spain, and Portugal, continue to face budget issues, some of which may have negative long-term effects for the economies of those countries and other EU countries. In July and August 2015, Greece reached agreements with its creditors for bailouts that provide aid in exchange for certain austerity measures. These and similar austerity measures may adversely affect world economic conditions and have an adverse impact on our business and that of our portfolio companies. In the second quarter of 2015, stock prices in China experienced a significant drop, resulting primarily from continued sell-off of shares trading in Chinese markets. In August 2015, Chinese authorities sharply devalued China's currency. In June 2016, , the United Kingdom held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the European Union (\"Brexit\"), and, subsequently, on March 29, 2017, the U.K. government began the formal process of leaving the European Union. Brexit created political and economic uncertainty and instability in the global markets (including currency and credit markets), and especially in the United Kingdom and the European Union, and this uncertainty and instability may last indefinitely. Because of the election results in the U.K. in June 2017, there is increased uncertainty on the timing of Brexit. There is also continued concern about national-level support for the euro and the accompanying coordination of fiscal and wage policy among European Economic and Monetary Union member. 29. countries. The recent United States and global economic downturn, or a return to the recessionary period in the United States, could adversely impact our investments.. As a result of the 2016 U.S. election, the Republican Party currently controls both the executive and legislative branches of government, which increases the likelihood that legislation may be adopted that could significantly affect the regulation of U.S. financial markets. Areas subject to potential change, amendment or repeal include the Dodd-Frank Reform Act and the authority of the Federal Reserve and the Financial Stability Oversight Council. The United States may also potentially withdraw from or renegotiate various trade agreements and take other actions that would change current trade policies of the United States. We cannot predict which, if any, of these actions will be taken or, if taken, their effect on the financial stability of the United States. Such actions could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot predict the duration of the effects related to these or similar events in the future on the U.S. economy and securities markets or on our investments. We monitor developments and seek to manage our investments in a manner consistent with achieving our investment objective, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so.. Any further disruptive conditions in the financial industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those conditions could restrict our business operations and could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the business development company market may be more sensitive to changes in interest rates or other factors and to the extent the business development company market trades down, our shares might likewise be affected. If the fair value of our assets declines substantially, we may fail to maintain the asset coverage ratios imposed upon us by the 1940 Act. Any such failure would affect our ability to issue securities, including borrowings, and pay distributions, which could materially impair our business operations. Our liquidity could be impaired further by an inability to access the capital markets or to consummate new borrowing facilities to provide capital for normal operations, including new originations. In recent years, reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers.. Difficult market and political conditions may adversely affect our business in many ways, including by reducing the value or hampering the performance of the investments made by our funds, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our business is materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic and political conditions throughout the world, such as interest rates, availability and cost of credit, inflation rates, economic uncertainty, changes in laws (including laws relating to our taxation, taxation of our investors, the possibility of changes to tax laws in either the United States or any non-U.S. jurisdiction and regulations on asset managers), trade barriers, commodity prices, currency exchange rates and controls and national and international political circumstances (including wars, terrorist acts and security operations). These factors are outside of our control and may affect the level and volatility of asset prices and the liquidity and value of investments, and we may not be able to or may choose not to manage our exposure to these conditions. While market conditions have largely recovered from the unprecedented turmoil in the global capital markets and the financial services industry in late 2008 and early 2009, there have been continuing periods of volatility, some lasting longer than others. There can be no assurance that these market conditions will not repeat themselves or worsen in the future. These and other conditions in the global financial markets and the global economy may result in adverse consequences for our funds and their respective investee companies, which could restrict such funds' investment activities and impede such funds' ability to effectively achieve their investment objectives. In addition, because the fees we earn under our investment management agreements are based in part on the market value of our assets under management and in part on investment performance, if any of these factors cause a decline in our assets under management or result in non-performance of loans by investee companies, it would result in lower fees earned, which could in turn materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. The downgrade of the U.S. credit rating and the economic crisis in Europe could negatively impact our liquidity, financial condition and earnings.. U.S. debt ceiling and budget deficit concerns together with signs of deteriorating sovereign debt conditions in Europe continue to present the possibility of a credit-rating downgrade, economic slowdowns, or a recession for the United States. The impact of any further downgrades to the U.S. government's sovereign credit rating or downgraded sovereign credit ratings of European countries or the Russian Federation, or their perceived creditworthiness could adversely affect the U.S. and global financial markets and economic conditions. These developments, along with any further European sovereign debt issues, could cause interest rates and borrowing costs to rise, which may negatively impact our ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms. Continued adverse economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Federal Reserve raised the federal funds rate in December 2015, in December 2016, in March 2017, and again in June 2017, which was increased to a range between 0.75% to 1.00%, and the Federal Reserve has announced its intention to continue to raise the federal funds rate over time. However, if key economic indicators, such as the unemployment rate or inflation, do not progress at a rate consistent with the Federal Reserve's objectives, the target range for the federal funds rate may increase and cause interest rates and borrowing costs to rise, which may negatively impact our ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms. Any continued adverse economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A failure or the perceived risk of a failure to raise the statutory debt limit of the United States could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Although U.S. lawmakers passed legislation to raise the federal debt ceiling until December 2017, in the future, the U.S. government may not be able to meet its debt payments unless the federal debt ceiling is raised. If legislation increasing the debt ceiling is not enacted, as needed, and the debt ceiling is reached (which is expected to occur in December 2017), the federal government may stop or delay making payments on its obligations. A failure by Congress to raise the debt limit to the extent necessary would increase the risk of default by the United States on its obligations, as well as the risk of other economic dislocations. If the U.S. government fails to complete its budget process or to provide for a continuing resolution before the expiration of the current continuing resolution, another federal government shutdown may result. Such a failure or the perceived risk of such a failure, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on the financial markets and economic conditions in the United States and throughout the world. It could also limit our ability and the ability of our portfolio companies to obtain financing, and it could have a material adverse effect on the valuation of our portfolio companies. Consequently, the continued uncertainty in the general economic environment and potential debt ceiling implications, as well in specific. 30. economies of several individual geographic markets in which our portfolio companies operate, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The new Republican administration may make substantial changes to fiscal and tax policies that may adversely affect our business.. Legislative or other actions relating to taxes could have a negative effect on the Company. The rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department. The House Ways and Means Committee recently released a tax reform proposal, and publicly released statements indicate that tax reform is a top legislative priority of the presidential administration.  Such proposal, if enacted, would make many changes to the Code, including significant changes to taxation of business entities and the deductibility of interest expense and capital investment. There is a substantial lack of clarity around the likelihood, timing, and final details of this and any other tax reform proposal. We cannot predict how any changes in the tax laws might affect the Company, investors or the Company's portfolio investments. New legislation and any U.S. Treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions interpreting such legislation could significantly and negatively affect the Company's ability to qualify for tax treatment as a RIC or the U.S. federal income tax consequences to the Company and its investors of such qualification, or could have other adverse consequences. Investors are urged to consult with their tax advisor with respect to the status of legislative, regulatory or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on an investment in the Company's stock.. Risks Related to Our Business. We may suffer credit losses.. Private debt in the form of secured loans to corporate and asset-based borrowers is highly speculative and involves a high degree of risk of credit loss, and therefore an investment in our securities may not be suitable for someone with a low tolerance for risk. These risks are likely to increase during an economic recession, such as the economic recession or downturn that the United States and many other countries have recently experienced or are experiencing.. Because we use borrowed funds to make investments or fund our business operations, we are exposed to risks typically associated with leverage which increase the risk of investing in us.. We have borrowed funds, including through the issuance of $102.9 million and $74.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 6.125% unsecured notes due March 30, 2023 and 6.50% unsecured notes due January 30, 2021 (collectively the \"Notes\"), through draws from our Revolving Credit Facility, Term Loan Facility and SBA-guaranteed debentures to leverage our capital structure, which is generally considered a speculative investment technique. As of September 30, 2017, before netting out debt issuance costs, our Term Loan Facility and Revolving Credit Facility had outstanding balances of $102.0 million and $68.0 million, respectively, and we had $150.0 million SBA-guaranteed debentures outstanding. As a result:. • our common shares may be exposed to an increased risk of loss because a decrease in the value of our investments may have a greater negative impact on the value of our common shares than if we did not use leverage;. • if we do not appropriately match the assets and liabilities of our business, adverse changes in interest rates could reduce or eliminate the incremental income we make with the proceeds of any leverage;. • our ability to pay distributions on our common stock may be restricted if our asset coverage ratio with respect to each of our outstanding senior securities representing indebtedness and our outstanding preferred shares, as defined by the 1940 Act, is not at least 200% and any amounts used to service indebtedness or preferred stock would not be available for such distributions;. • the Revolving Credit Facility is subject to periodic renewal by our lenders, whose continued participation cannot be guaranteed;. • the Facilities contain covenants restricting our operating flexibility;. • we, and indirectly our stockholders, bear the cost of issuing and paying interest or dividends on such securities; and. • any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common shares.. Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we are permitted, as a BDC, to issue debt securities or preferred stock and/or borrow money from banks and other financial institutions, which we collectively refer to as \"senior securities\", only in amounts such that our asset coverage ratio equals at least 200% after each issuance of senior securities.. For a discussion of the terms of the Facilities and the Notes, see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources.\". Legislation may allow us to incur additional leverage.. As a BDC, generally, we are not permitted to incur indebtedness unless immediately after such borrowing we have an asset coverage for total borrowings of at least 200% (i.e., the amount of debt may not exceed 50% of the value of our assets). The Financial CHOICE Act of 2017, which was passed by the U.S. House of Representatives in June 2017, would modify this section of the 1940 Act and increase the amount of debt that BDCs may incur by modifying the asset coverage percentage from 200% to 150%. As a result, we may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future, and our shareholders may face increased investment risk. In addition, since our management fee is calculated as a percentage of the value of our gross assets, which includes any borrowings for investment purposes, the management fee expenses will increase if we incur additional indebtedness.. 31. Covenants in the Facilities may restrict our financial and operating flexibility.. We maintain the Facilities with certain lenders party thereto from time to time and ING Capital LLC, as administrative agent. The Facilities are secured by substantially all of our assets, subject to certain exclusions. Availability of loans under the Facilities is linked to the valuation of the collateral pursuant to a borrowing base mechanism. Borrowings under the Facilities are subject to, among other things, a minimum borrowing/collateral base. Substantially all of our assets are pledged as collateral under the Facilities. The Facilities require us to, among other things (i) make representations and warranties regarding the collateral as well as our business and operations, (ii) agree to certain indemnification obligations, and (iii) agree to comply with various affirmative and negative covenants. The documents for each of the Facilities also include default provisions such as the failure to make timely payments under the Facilities, as the case may be, the occurrence of a change in control, and our failure to materially perform under the operative agreements governing the Facilities, which, if not complied with, could accelerate repayment under the Facilities, thereby materially and adversely affecting our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. As a result of such covenants and restrictions in the Facilities, we will be limited in how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to take advantage of new business opportunities. In addition, our ability to satisfy the financial requirements required by the Facilities can be affected by events beyond our control and we cannot assure you that we will meet these requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, we may be in default under the Facilities, and we may be prohibited from undertaking actions that are necessary or desirable to maintain and expand our business.. Default under the Facilities could allow the lender(s) to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable. If the lender(s) declare amounts outstanding under the Facilities to be due, the lender(s) could proceed against the assets pledged to secure the debt under the Facilities. Any event of default, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business if the lender(s) determine to exercise their rights.. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business.. We anticipate that our investments generally will be made in private companies. Substantially all of these securities will be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will be otherwise less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we had previously recorded our investments. In addition, we may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a portfolio company to the extent that we or MCC Advisors has material non-public information regarding such portfolio company.. A substantial portion of our portfolio investments will be recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by or under the direction of our board of directors and, as a result, there may be uncertainty regarding the value of our portfolio investments.. The debt and equity securities in which we invest for which market quotations are not readily available will be valued at fair value as determined in good faith by or under the direction of our board of directors. Most, if not all, of our investments (other than cash and cash equivalents) will be classified as Level 3 under Accounting Standards Codification Topic 820 - Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures. This means that our portfolio valuations will be based on unobservable inputs and our own assumptions about how market participants would price the asset or liability in question. We expect that inputs into the determination of fair value of our portfolio investments will require significant management judgment or estimation. Even if observable market data are available, such information may be the result of consensus pricing information or broker quotes, which include a disclaimer that the broker would not be held to such a price in an actual transaction. The non-binding nature of consensus pricing and/or quotes accompanied by disclaimers materially reduces the reliability of such information. We have retained the services of independent valuation firms to review the valuation of these loans and securities. The types of factors that our board of directors may take into account in determining the fair value of our investments generally include, as appropriate, comparison to publicly traded securities including such factors as yield, maturity and measures of credit quality, the enterprise value of a portfolio company, the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company's ability to make payments and its earnings and discounted cash flow, the markets in which the portfolio company does business and other relevant factors. Because such valuations, and particularly valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these loans and securities existed. Our NAV could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon the disposal of such loans and securities.. We are a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, and therefore we are not limited with respect to the proportion of our assets that may be invested in securities of a single issuer.. We are classified as a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, which means that we are not limited by the 1940 Act with respect to the proportion of our assets that we may invest in securities of a single issuer. We also are not adopting any policy restricting the percentage of our assets that may be invested in a single portfolio company. To the extent that we assume large positions in the securities of a small number of issuers, our NAV may fluctuate to a greater extent than that of a diversified investment company as a result of changes in the financial condition or the market's assessment of the issuer. We may also be more susceptible to any single economic or regulatory occurrence than a diversified investment company. Beyond our income tax diversification requirements under Subchapter M of the Code, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and our investments could be concentrated in relatively few portfolio companies.. Our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates will be restricted, which may limit the scope of investments available to us.. We are prohibited under the 1940 Act from participating in certain transactions with our affiliates without the prior approval of our independent directors and, in some cases, of the SEC. Any person that owns, directly or indirectly, five percent or more of our outstanding voting securities will be our affiliate for purposes of the 1940 Act, and we are generally prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to such affiliate, absent the prior approval of our independent directors. The 1940 Act also prohibits certain \"joint\" transactions with certain of our affiliates, which could include investments in the same portfolio company, without prior approval of our independent directors and, in some cases, of the SEC. We are prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to any person who owns more than 25% of our voting securities or certain of that person's affiliates, or entering into prohibited joint. 32. transactions with such persons, absent the prior approval of the SEC. As a result of these restrictions, we may be prohibited from buying or selling any security (other than any security of which we are the issuer) from or to any portfolio company of a private equity fund managed by our investment adviser or its affiliates without the prior approval of the SEC, which may limit the scope of investment opportunities that would otherwise be available to us.. We may, however, co-invest with our investment adviser and its affiliates' other clients in certain circumstances where doing so is consistent with applicable law and SEC staff interpretations. For example, we may co-invest with such accounts consistent with guidance promulgated by the SEC staff permitting us and such other accounts to purchase interests in a single class of privately placed securities so long as certain conditions are met, including that MCC Advisors, acting on our behalf and on behalf of other clients, negotiates no term other than price. We may also co-invest with our investment adviser's other clients as otherwise permissible under regulatory guidance, applicable regulations and MCC Advisors' allocation policy. Under this allocation policy, a fixed percentage of each opportunity, which may vary based on asset class and from time to time, will be offered to us and similar eligible accounts, as periodically determined by MCC Advisors and approved by our board of directors, including our independent directors. The allocation policy further provides that allocations among us and these other accounts will generally be made pro rata based on each account's capital available for investment, as determined, in our case, by MCC Advisors. It is our policy to base our determinations as to the amount of capital available for investment based on such factors as the amount of cash on-hand, existing commitments and reserves, if any, the targeted leverage level, the targeted asset mix and diversification requirements and other investment policies and restrictions set by our board of directors or imposed by applicable laws, rules, regulations or interpretations. We expect that these determinations will be made similarly for other accounts. However, we can offer no assurance that investment opportunities will be allocated to us fairly or equitably in the short-term or over time.. In addition, we have received an order from the SEC that permits us to negotiate the terms of co-investments with other funds managed by MCC Advisors or its affiliates subject to the conditions included therein. In situations where co-investment with other funds managed by MCC Advisors or its affiliates is not permitted or appropriate, such as when there is an opportunity to invest in different securities of the same issuer or where the different investments could be expected to result in a conflict between our interests and those of other MCC Advisors clients, MCC Advisors will need to decide which client will proceed with the investment. MCC Advisors will make these determinations based on its policies and procedures, which generally require that such opportunities be offered to eligible accounts on an alternating basis that will be fair and equitable over time. Moreover, except in certain circumstances, we will be unable to invest in any issuer in which a fund managed by MCC Advisors or its affiliates has previously invested. Similar restrictions limit our ability to transact business with our officers or directors or their affiliates.. We will be exposed to risks associated with changes in interest rates.. Interest rate fluctuations may have a substantial negative impact on our investments, the value of our common stock and our rate of return on invested capital. A reduction in the interest rates on new investments relative to interest rates on current investments could also have an adverse impact on our net interest income. An increase in interest rates could decrease the value of any investments we hold which earn fixed interest rates and also could increase our interest expense, thereby decreasing our net income. Also, an increase in interest rates available to investors could make investment in our common stock less attractive if we are not able to increase our dividend rate, which could reduce the value of our common stock.. It is unclear how increased regulatory oversight and changes in the method for determining LIBOR may affect the value of the financial obligations to be held or issued by us that are linked to LIBOR, or how such changes could affect our results of operations or financial condition.. In the recent past, concerns have been publicized that some of the member banks surveyed by British Bankers' Association (\"BBA\") in connection with the calculation of LIBOR across a range of maturities and currencies may have been under-reporting or otherwise manipulating the inter-bank lending rate applicable to them in order to profit on their derivative positions or to avoid an appearance of capital insufficiency or adverse reputational or other consequences that may have resulted from reporting inter-bank lending rates higher than those they actually submitted. A number of BBA member banks entered into settlements with their regulators and law enforcement agencies with respect to alleged manipulation of LIBOR, and investigations by regulators and governmental authorities in various jurisdictions are ongoing.. Accordingly, uncertainty as to the nature of such changes may adversely affect the market for or value of any LIBOR-linked securities, loans, derivatives and other financial obligations or extensions of credit held by or due to us or on our overall financial condition or results of operations. In addition, any further changes or reforms to the determination or supervision of LIBOR may result in a sudden or prolonged increase or decrease in reported LIBOR, which could have an adverse impact on the market for or value of any LIBOR-linked securities, loans, derivatives and other financial obligations or extensions of credit held by or due to us or on our overall financial condition or results of operations. For example, on July 27, 2017, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority announced that it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit LIBOR rates after 2021. At this time, it is not possible to predict the effect of any such changes, any establishment of alternative reference rates or any other reforms to LIBOR that may be enacted in the United Kingdom or elsewhere. The elimination of LIBOR or any other changes or reforms to the determination or supervision of LIBOR could have an adverse impact on the market for or value of any LIBOR-linked securities, loans, and other financial obligations or extensions of credit held by or due to us or on our overall financial condition or results of operations.. Because we use debt to finance our investments, changes in interest rates will affect our cost of capital and net investment income.. Because we borrow money to make investments, our net investment income will depend, in part, upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds and the rate at which we invest those funds. As a result, we can offer no assurance that a significant change in market interest rates will not have a material adverse effect on our net investment income in the event we use our existing debt to finance our investments. In periods of rising interest rates, our cost of funds will increase to the extent we access the Facilities, since the interest rate on the Facilities is floating, which could reduce our net investment income to the extent any debt investments have fixed interest rates. We expect that our long-term fixed-rate investments will be financed primarily with issuances of equity and long-term debt securities. We may use interest rate risk management techniques in an effort to limit our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. Such techniques may include various interest rate hedging activities to the extent permitted by the 1940 Act.. You should also be aware that a rise in the general level of interest rates typically leads to higher interest rates applicable to our debt investments. Accordingly, an increase in interest rates may result in an increase of the amount of incentive fees payable to MCC Advisors.. 33. If MCC Advisors is unable to manage our investments effectively, we may be unable to achieve our investment objective.. Our ability to achieve our investment objective will depend on our ability to manage our business, which will depend, in turn, on the ability of MCC Advisors to identify, invest in and monitor companies that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result largely will be a function of MCC Advisors' investment process and, in conjunction with its role as our administrator, its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services to us.. MCC Advisors' senior management team is comprised of members of the senior management team for Medley LLC, and they manage other investment funds. They may also be required to provide managerial assistance to our portfolio companies. These demands on their time may distract them or slow our rate of investment. Any failure to manage our business effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may experience fluctuations in our periodic operating results.. We could experience fluctuations in our periodic operating results due to a number of factors, including the interest rates payable on the debt securities we acquire, the default rate on such securities, the level of our expenses (including the interest rates payable on our borrowings), the dividend rates payable on preferred stock we issue, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods.. Any failure on our part to maintain our status as a BDC would reduce our operating flexibility.. If we fail to maintain our status as a BDC, we might be regulated as a closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act, which would subject us to substantially more onerous regulatory restrictions under the 1940 Act and correspondingly decrease our operating flexibility.. We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income.. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we may include in income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as original issue discount, which may arise if we receive warrants in connection with the making of a loan or possibly in other circumstances, such as payment-in-kind (\"PIK\") interest, which represents contractual interest added to the loan balance and due at the end of the loan term. Such original issue discount, which could be significant relative to our overall investment activities, or increases in loan balances as a result of PIK arrangements are included in income before we receive any corresponding cash payments. We also may be required to include in income certain other amounts that we do not receive in cash.. Since in certain cases we may recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty meeting the tax requirement to distribute at least 90% of our net ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any, to maintain our status as a RIC. Accordingly, we may have to sell some of our investments at times we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or reduce new investment originations to meet these distribution requirements. If we are not able to raise cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify and maintain our status as a RIC and thus become subject to corporate-level U.S. federal income tax. See \"Tax Matters - Taxation of the Company\".. We may be required to pay incentive fees on income accrued, but not yet received in cash.. That part of the incentive fee payable by us that relates to our net investment income is computed and paid on income that may include interest that has been accrued but not yet received in cash, such as market discount, debt instruments with PIK, interest, preferred stock with PIK dividends and zero coupon securities. If a portfolio company defaults on a loan, it is possible that accrued interest previously used in the calculation of the incentive fee will become uncollectible. Consequently, we may make incentive fee payments on income accruals that we may not collect in the future and with respect to which we do not have a clawback right against MCC Advisors.. We may not be able to pay you distributions and our distributions may not grow over time.. We intend to pay quarterly distributions to our stockholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to pay a specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. Our ability to pay distributions might be adversely affected by, among other things, the impact of one or more of the risk factors described herein. In addition, the inability to satisfy the asset coverage test applicable to us as a BDC could limit our ability to pay distributions. All distributions will be paid at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our RIC tax treatment, compliance with applicable BDC regulations, restrictions on the payment of distributions under the Facilities, our SBIC subsidiary's compliance with SBIC regulations and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. We cannot assure you that we will pay distributions to our stockholders in the future.. Our SBIC subsidiary may be unable to make distributions to us that will enable us to meet or maintain RIC tax treatment, which could result in the imposition of an entity-level tax.. In order for us to continue to qualify for RIC tax treatment and to minimize corporate-level U.S. federal income taxes, we will be required to distribute substantially all of our net ordinary income and net capital gain income, including income from certain of our subsidiaries, which includes the income from our SBIC subsidiary. We are partially dependent on our SBIC subsidiary for cash distributions to enable us to meet the RIC distribution requirements. Our SBIC subsidiary may be limited by the Small Business Investment Act of 1958, and SBIC regulations governing SBICs, from making certain distributions to us that may be necessary to enable us to maintain our status as a RIC. We may have to request a waiver of the SBA's restrictions for our SBIC subsidiary to make certain distributions to maintain our eligibility for RIC tax treatment. We cannot assure you that the SBA will grant such a. 34. waiver and if our SBIC subsidiary is unable to obtain a waiver, compliance with the SBIC regulations may result in loss of RIC tax treatment and a consequent imposition of an entity-level tax on us.. Pursuant to SBA regulations, a SBIC with outstanding debenture leverage may only distribute cumulative realized profits (less unrealized losses on investments). It may not return more than 2% of its outstanding capital in any fiscal year without SBA approval. Historically, the SBA has permitted payment in excess of 2% only pursuant to an approved wind up plan filed by our SBIC subsidiary pursuant to which SBA determines that repayment of our outstanding debentures is adequately assured.. Our SBIC subsidiary is subject to SBA regulations, and any failure to comply with SBA regulations could have an adverse effect on our operations.. On March 26, 2013, our wholly-owned subsidiary, Medley SBIC LP (\"SBIC LP\"), received a Small Business Investment Company (\"SBIC\") license from the SBA.. The SBIC license allows SBIC LP to obtain leverage by issuing SBA-guaranteed debentures, subject to the issuance of a capital commitment by the SBA and other customary procedures. SBA-guaranteed debentures are non-recourse, interest only debentures with interest payable semi-annually and have a ten-year maturity. The principal amount of SBA-guaranteed debentures is not required to be paid prior to maturity but may be prepaid at any time without penalty. The interest rate of SBA-guaranteed debentures is fixed on a semi-annual basis at a market-driven spread over U.S. Treasury Notes with 10-year maturities. The SBA, as a creditor, will have a superior claim to SBIC LP's assets over our stockholders in the event we liquidate SBIC LP or the SBA exercises its remedies under the SBA-guaranteed debentures issued by SBIC LP upon an event of default.. Further, the SBA regulations require that a licensed SBIC be periodically examined and audited by the SBA to determine its compliance with the relevant SBA regulations. The SBA prohibits, without prior SBA approval, a \"change of control\" of an SBIC or any transfers of the capital stock of a licensed SBIC. If our SBIC subsidiary fails to comply with applicable SBIC regulations, the SBA could, depending on the severity of the violation, limit or prohibit its use of debentures, declare outstanding debentures immediately due and payable, and/or limit it from making new investments. In addition, the SBA can revoke or suspend a license for willful or repeated violation of, or willful or repeated failure to observe, any provision of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 or any rule or regulation promulgated thereunder. Any failure to comply with SBA regulations could have an adverse effect on our operations.. SBA regulations limit the outstanding dollar amount of SBA guaranteed debentures that may be issued by an SBIC or group of SBICs under common control.. The SBA regulations currently limit the dollar amount of SBA-guaranteed debentures that can be issued by any one SBIC to $150.0 million or to a group of SBICs under common control to $350.0 million. The Small Business Investment Opportunity Act, which was passed by the U.S. House of Representatives in July 2017, would amend the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 by increasing the individual leverage limit from $150 million to $175 million. Moreover, an SBIC may not borrow an amount in excess of two times (and in certain cases, up to three times) its regulatory capital. As of September 30, 2017, our SBIC subsidiary had $150.0 million in SBA-guaranteed debentures outstanding. Now that we have reached the maximum dollar amount of SBA-guaranteed debentures permitted, if we require additional capital, our cost of capital may increase, and there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms.. Moreover, the current status of our SBIC subsidiary as an SBIC does not automatically assure that our SBIC subsidiary will continue to receive SBA-guaranteed debenture funding. Receipt of SBA leverage funding is dependent upon our SBIC subsidiary continuing to be in compliance with SBA regulations and policies and the availability of SBA funding. The amount of SBA leverage funding available to SBICs is dependent upon annual Congressional authorizations and in the future may be subject to annual Congressional appropriations. There can be no assurance that there will be sufficient debenture funding available at the times desired by our SBIC subsidiary.. The debentures guaranteed by the SBA have a maturity of ten years and require semi-annual payments of interest. Our SBIC subsidiary will need to generate sufficient cash flow to make required interest payments on the debentures. If our SBIC subsidiary is unable to meet their financial obligations under the debentures, the SBA, as a creditor, will have a superior claim to our SBIC subsidiary's assets over our stockholders in the event we liquidate our SBIC subsidiary or the SBA exercises its remedies under such debentures as the result of a default by us.. The highly competitive market in which we operate may limit our investment opportunities.. A number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we make. We compete with other BDCs and investment funds (including public and private funds, commercial and investment banks, commercial financing companies, other SBICs and, to the extent they provide an alternative form of financing, private equity funds). Additionally, because competition for investment opportunities generally has increased among alternative investment vehicles, such as hedge funds, those entities have begun to invest in areas in which they have not traditionally invested. As a result of these new entrants, competition for investment opportunities has intensified in recent years and may intensify further in the future. Some of our existing and potential competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions and valuation requirements that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a BDC and the tax consequences of qualifying as a RIC. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this existing and potentially increasing competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objective.. We do not seek to compete primarily based on the interest rates we offer, and we believe that some of our competitors make loans with interest rates that are comparable to or lower than the rates we offer. We may lose investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors' pricing, terms and structure. If we match our competitors' pricing, terms and structure, we may experience decreased net interest income and increased risk of credit loss. A significant. 35. part of our competitive advantage stems from the fact that the market for investments in mid-sized companies is underserved by traditional commercial banks and other financial institutions. A significant increase in the number and/or size of our competitors in this target market could force us to accept less attractive investment terms. Furthermore, many of our competitors have greater experience operating under the regulatory restrictions of the 1940 Act.. We depend upon senior management personnel of MCC Advisors for our future success, and if MCC Advisors is unable to retain qualified personnel or if MCC Advisors loses any member of its senior management team, our ability to achieve our investment objective could be significantly harmed.. We depend on MCC Advisors' investment management team, or the Investment Team, which is provided by MCC Advisors, for the identification, final selection, structuring, closing and monitoring of our investments. Our Investment Team is integral to our asset management activities and has critical industry experience and relationships that we will rely on to implement our business plan. Our future success depends on our Investment Team's continued service to MCC Advisors. The departure of any of the members of the Investment Team could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objective. As a result, we may not be able to operate our business as we expect, and our ability to compete could be harmed, which could cause our operating results to suffer. In addition, we can offer no assurance that MCC Advisors will remain our investment adviser or our administrator. Moreover, we also experience competition in attracting and retaining qualified personnel, particularly investment professionals, and we may be unable to maintain or grow our business if we cannot attract and retain such personnel.. MCC Advisors may not be able to achieve the same or similar returns as those achieved by our senior management and Investment Team while they were employed at prior positions.. The track record and achievements of the senior management and Investment Team of MCC Advisors are not necessarily indicative of future results that will be achieved by our investment adviser. As a result, MCC Advisors may not be able to achieve the same or similar returns as those achieved by our senior management and Investment Team while they were employed at prior positions.. Because we expect to distribute substantially all of our net investment income and net realized capital gains to our stockholders, we will need additional capital to finance our growth and such capital may not be available on favorable terms or at all.. We have elected and qualified to be taxed for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code. As a RIC, we must meet certain requirements, including source-of-income, asset diversification and distribution requirements in order to not have to pay corporate-level U.S. federal income taxes on income we distribute to our stockholders as distributions, which allows us to substantially reduce or eliminate our corporate-level U.S. federal income tax liability. As a BDC, we are generally required to meet a coverage ratio of total assets to total senior securities, which includes all of our borrowings and any preferred stock we may issue in the future, of at least 200% at the time we issue any debt or preferred stock. This requirement limits the amount of our leverage. Because we will continue to need capital to grow our investment portfolio, this limitation may prevent us from incurring debt or issuing preferred stock and require us to raise additional equity at a time when it may be disadvantageous to do so. We cannot assure you that debt and equity financing will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all, and debt financings may be restricted by the terms of any of our outstanding borrowings. In addition, as a BDC, we are generally not permitted to issue common stock priced below NAV without stockholder approval. If additional funds are not available to us, we could be forced to curtail or cease new lending and investment activities, and our NAV could decline.. Our board of directors may change our investment objective, operating policies and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval.. Our board of directors has the authority to modify or waive certain of our operating policies and strategies without prior notice and without stockholder approval. However, absent stockholder approval, we may not change the nature of our business so as to cease to be, or withdraw our election as, a BDC. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies and strategies would have on our business, operating results or value of our stock. Nevertheless, the effects could adversely affect our business and impact our ability to make distributions and cause you to lose all or part of your investment.. There are significant potential conflicts of interest that could affect our investment returns.. There may be times when MCC Advisors, its senior management and Investment Team, and members of its Investment Committee have interests that differ from those of our stockholders, giving rise to a conflict of interest. In particular, certain private investment funds managed by the senior members of MCC Advisors hold controlling or minority equity interests, or have the right to acquire such equity interests, in some of our portfolio companies. As a result, the senior members of MCC Advisors may face conflicts of interest in connection with making business decisions for these portfolio companies to the extent that such decisions affect the debt and equity holders in these portfolio companies differently. In addition, the senior members of MCC Advisors may face conflicts of interests in connection with making investment or other decisions, including granting loan waivers or concessions on our behalf with respect to these portfolio companies given that they also manage private investment funds that hold the equity interests in these portfolio companies.. There may be conflicts of interest related to obligations MCC Advisors' senior management and Investment Team and members of its Investment Committee have to other clients.. Senior management, the Investment Team, and the Investment Committee of MCC Advisors serve or may serve as officers, directors or principals of entities that operate in the same or a related line of business as we do, or of investment funds managed by MCC Advisors or its affiliates. In serving in these multiple capacities, they may have obligations to other clients or investors in those entities, the fulfillment of which may not be in our best interests or in the best interest of our stockholders. For example, members of the Investment Team have management responsibilities for other investment funds, accounts or other investment vehicles managed by affiliates of MCC Advisors, which gives rise to conflicts of interest.. Our investment objective may overlap with the investment objectives of such investment funds, accounts or other investment vehicles. For example, affiliates of MCC Advisors currently manage private funds and managed accounts that are seeking new capital commitments and will pursue an investment strategy similar to our strategy, and we may compete with these and other entities managed by affiliates of MCC Advisors for capital and investment. 36. opportunities. As a result, those individuals may face conflicts in the allocation of investment opportunities among us and other investment funds or accounts advised by principals of, or affiliated with, MCC Advisors.. We have received an order from the SEC which permits us to co-invest with certain other investment funds managed by MCC Advisors or its affiliates, subject to the conditions included therein. In situations where we cannot co-invest with other investment funds managed by MCC Advisors or its affiliates, the investment policies and procedures of MCC Advisors generally require that such opportunities be offered to us and such other investment funds on an alternating basis. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to participate in all investment opportunities that are suitable to us.. MCC Advisors may, from time to time, possess material non-public information, limiting our investment discretion.. MCC Advisors and members of its senior management and the Investment Team and the Investment Committee may serve as directors of, or in a similar capacity with, companies in which we invest, the securities of which are purchased or sold on our behalf. In the event that material nonpublic information is obtained with respect to such companies, we could be prohibited for a period of time from purchasing or selling the securities of such companies by law or otherwise, and this prohibition may have an adverse effect on us.. Our incentive fee structure may create incentives for MCC Advisors that are not fully aligned with the interests of our stockholders.. In the course of our investing activities, we will pay management and incentive fees to MCC Advisors. These fees are based on our gross assets. As a result, investors in our common stock will invest on a \"gross\" basis and receive distributions on a \"net\" basis after expenses, resulting in a lower rate of return than one might achieve through direct investments. Because these fees are based on our gross assets, MCC Advisors will benefit when we incur debt or use leverage. Additionally, under the incentive fee structure, MCC Advisors may benefit when capital gains are recognized and, because MCC Advisors determines when a holding is sold, MCC Advisors controls the timing of the recognition of such capital gains. Our board of directors is charged with protecting our interests by monitoring how MCC Advisors addresses these and other conflicts of interests associated with its management services and compensation. While they are not expected to review or approve each borrowing or incurrence of leverage, our independent directors will periodically review MCC Advisors' services and fees as well as its portfolio management decisions and portfolio performance. In connection with these reviews, our independent directors will consider whether our fees and expenses (including those related to leverage) remain appropriate. As a result of this arrangement, MCC Advisors or its affiliates may from time to time have interests that differ from those of our stockholders, giving rise to a conflict.. The part of the incentive fee payable to MCC Advisors that relates to our net investment income will be computed and paid on income that may include interest income that has been accrued but not yet received in cash. This fee structure may be considered to involve a conflict of interest for MCC Advisors to the extent that it may encourage MCC Advisors to favor debt financings that provide for deferred interest, rather than current cash payments of interest. MCC Advisors may have an incentive to invest in deferred interest securities in circumstances where it would not have done so but for the opportunity to continue to earn the incentive fee even when the issuers of the deferred interest securities would not be able to make actual cash payments to us on such securities. This risk could be increased because MCC Advisors is not obligated to reimburse us for any incentive fees received even if we subsequently incur losses or never receive in cash the deferred income that was previously accrued.. Because we borrow money, the potential for loss on amounts invested in us will be magnified and may increase the risk of investing in us.. Borrowings, also known as leverage, magnify the potential for loss on invested equity capital. If we continue to use leverage to partially finance our investments, which we have increasingly done over the years, you will experience increased risks of investing in our securities. We borrow under the Facilities, issued the Notes, issued the SBA-guaranteed debentures and may issue other debt securities or enter into other types of borrowing arrangements in the future. If the value of our assets decreases, leveraging would cause our NAV to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged. Similarly, any decrease in our income would cause net income to decline more sharply than it would have had we not borrowed. Such a decline could negatively affect our ability to make common stock distributions or scheduled debt payments. Leverage is generally considered a speculative investment technique and we only intend to use leverage if expected returns will exceed the cost of borrowing.. As of September 30, 2017, before netting out debt issuance costs, our Term Loan Facility and Revolving Credit Facility had outstanding balances of $102.0 million and $68.0 million, respectively, we had $150.0 million SBA-guaranteed debentures outstanding and $176.9 million of outstanding Notes. The Facilities and the Notes require periodic payments of interest. The weighted average interest rate charged on our borrowings as of September 30, 2017 was 4.7% (exclusive of debt issuance costs). We will need to generate sufficient cash flow to make these required interest payments. In order for us to cover our annual interest payments on indebtedness, we must achieve annual returns on total assets of at least 2.81% as of September 30, 2017. If we are unable to meet the financial obligations under the Facilities, the lenders under the Facilities will have a superior to claim to our assets over our stockholders. If we are unable to meet the financial obligations under the Notes, the holders thereof will have the right to declare the principal amount and accrued and unpaid interest on the outstanding Notes to be due and payable immediately.. We have received exemptive relief from the SEC to permit us to exclude the debt of our SBIC subsidiary guaranteed by the SBA from the definition of senior securities in the 200% asset coverage ratio we are required to maintain under the 1940 Act. Pursuant to such exemptive relief, we have the ability to incur leverage in excess of the amounts set forth in the 1940 Act by excluding the debt of our SBIC subsidiary. If we incur additional leverage in excess of the amounts set forth in the 1940 Act, our NAV will decline more sharply if the value of our assets declines than if we had not incurred such additional leverage and the effects of leverage described above will be magnified.. 37. Illustration. The following table illustrates the effect of leverage on returns from an investment in our common stock assuming various annual returns, net of expenses. The calculations in the table below are hypothetical and actual returns may be higher or lower than those appearing below.. Assumed Return on Our Portfolio(1). (net of expenses). (10)%   (5)%   0%   5%   10% Corresponding net return to common stockholder (25.8 )%   (15.4 )%   (5.0 )%   5.4 %   15.8 %. (1) Assumes $959.6 million in total assets, $487.1 million in debt outstanding, $460.4 million in net assets, and a weighted average interest rate of 4.7%. Actual interest payments may be different.. Our incentive fee may induce our investment adviser to make certain investments, including speculative investments.. The incentive fee payable by us to MCC Advisors may create an incentive for MCC Advisors to make investments on our behalf that are risky or more speculative than would be the case in the absence of such compensation arrangement. The way in which the incentive fee payable to MCC Advisors is determined, which is calculated separately in two components as a percentage of the interest and other ordinary income in excess of a quarterly minimum hurdle rate and as a percentage of the realized gain on invested capital, may encourage MCC Advisors to use leverage or take additional risk to increase the return on our investments. The use of leverage may magnify the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested. The use of leverage is considered a speculative technique. If we borrow from banks or other lenders, we would expect that such lenders will seek recovery against our assets in the event of a default and these lenders likely will have claims on our assets that are superior to those of our equity holders. In addition, MCC Advisors receives the incentive fee based, in part, upon net capital gains realized on our investments. Unlike the portion of the incentive fee based on income, there is no minimum level of gain applicable to the portion of the incentive fee based on net capital gains. As a result, MCC Advisors may have an incentive to invest more in investments that are likely to result in capital gains as compared to income producing securities. This practice could result in our investing in more speculative securities than would otherwise be the case, which could result in higher investment losses, particularly during economic downturns.. We may invest, to the extent permitted by law, in the securities and instruments of other investment companies, including private funds, and, to the extent we so invest, we will bear our ratable share of any such investment company's expenses, including management and performance fees. We will also remain obligated to pay management and incentive fees to MCC Advisors with respect to the assets invested in the securities and instruments of other investment companies. With respect to each of these investments, each of our common stockholders will bear his or her share of the management and incentive fee of MCC Advisors as well as indirectly bear the management and performance fees and other expenses of any investment companies in which we invest.. We may be obligated to pay our investment adviser incentive compensation even if we incur a loss and may pay more than 20% of our net capital gains because we cannot recover payments made in previous years.. MCC Advisors will be entitled to incentive compensation for each fiscal quarter in an amount equal to a percentage of the excess of our net investment income for that quarter above a threshold return for that quarter. Our pre-incentive fee net investment income for incentive compensation purposes excludes realized and unrealized capital losses that we may incur in the fiscal quarter, even if such capital losses result in a net loss on our statement of operations for that quarter. Thus, we may be required to pay MCC Advisors incentive compensation for a fiscal quarter even if there is a decline in the value of our portfolio or we incur a net loss for that quarter. If we pay an incentive fee of 20% of our realized capital gains (net of all realized capital losses and unrealized capital depreciation on a cumulative basis) and thereafter experience additional realized capital losses or unrealized capital depreciation, we will not be able to recover any portion of the incentive fee previously paid.. The valuation process for certain of our portfolio holdings creates a conflict of interest.. A substantial portion of our portfolio investments are expected to be made in the form of securities that are not publicly traded. As a result, our board of directors will determine the fair value of these securities in good faith pursuant to our valuation policy. In connection with that determination, investment professionals from MCC Advisors prepare portfolio company valuations based upon the most recent financial statements available and projected financial results of each portfolio company. In addition, certain members of our board of directors, including Brook Taube, Seth Taube and Jeff Tonkel, have a pecuniary interest in MCC Advisors. The participation of MCC Advisors' investment professionals in our valuation process, and the pecuniary interest in MCC Advisors by certain members of our board of directors, could result in a conflict of interest as the management fee that we will pay MCC Advisors is based on our gross assets.. Other arrangements with MCC Advisors may create conflicts of interest.. We utilize MCC Advisors' office space and pay to MCC Advisors our allocable portion of overhead and other expenses incurred by MCC Advisors in performing its obligations under the administration agreement, such as our allocable portion of the cost of our chief financial officer and chief compliance officer and their respective staffs. This results in conflicts of interest that our board of directors must monitor.. The investment management agreement and administration agreement with MCC Advisors were not negotiated on an arm's length basis and may not be as favorable to us as if they had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party.. The investment management agreement and the administration agreement were negotiated between related parties. Consequently, their terms, including fees payable to MCC Advisors, may not be as favorable to us as if they had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party.. 38. Our ability to sell or otherwise exit investments in which affiliates of MCC Advisors also have an investment may be restricted.. We may be considered affiliates with respect to certain of our portfolio companies. Certain private funds advised by the senior members of MCC Advisors also hold interests in these portfolio companies and as such these interests may be considered a joint enterprise under applicable regulations. To the extent that our interests in these portfolio companies may need to be restructured in the future or to the extent that we choose to exit certain of these transactions, our ability to do so will be limited.. We are highly dependent on information systems and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay distributions.. Our business is highly dependent on our and third parties' communications and information systems. Any failure or interruption of those systems, including as a result of the termination of an agreement with any third-party service providers, could cause delays or other problems in our activities. Our financial, accounting, data processing, backup or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control and adversely affect our business. There could be:. • sudden electrical or telecommunications outages;. • natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes;. • disease pandemics;. • events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and. • cyber-attacks.. These events, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders.. The failure in cybersecurity systems, as well as the occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems and management continuity planning could impair our ability to conduct business effectively.. Cybersecurity refers to the combination of technologies, processes, and procedures established to protect information technology systems and data from unauthorized access, attack, or damage. We are subject to cybersecurity risks. Information cyber security risks have significantly increased in recent years and, while we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches, we could suffer such losses in the future. Our computer systems, both internal and those provided by third-party service providers, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. If one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize confidential and other information, including nonpublic personal information and sensitive business data, processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations or the operations of our customers or counterparties, which could result in significant losses or reputational damage. This could result in significant losses, reputational damage, litigation, regulatory fines or penalties, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Privacy and information security laws and regulation changes, and compliance with those changes, may result in cost increases due to system changes and the development of new administrative processes. In addition, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures and to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures arising from operational and security risks. We currently do not maintain insurance coverage relating to cybersecurity risks, and we may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are not fully insured.. Third parties with which we do business may also be sources of cybersecurity or other technological risks. Cyber security failures or breaches by our investment adviser and other service providers (including, but not limited to, accountants, custodians, transfer agents and administrators), and the issuers of securities in which we invest, also have the ability to cause disruptions and impact business operations, potentially resulting in financial losses, interference with our ability to calculate its net asset value, impediments to trading, the inability of our stockholders to transact business, violations of applicable privacy and other laws, regulatory fines, penalties, reputation damages, reimbursement of other compensation costs, or additional compliance costs. In addition, substantial costs may be incurred in order to prevent any cyber incidents in the future.. We outsource certain functions and these relationships allow for the storage and processing of our information, as well as customer, counterparty, employee and borrower information. While we engage in actions to reduce our exposure resulting from outsourcing, ongoing threats may result in unauthorized access, loss, exposure or destruction of data, or other cybersecurity incidents, with increased costs and other consequences, including those described above.. Our business and operations could be negatively affected if we become subject to any securities litigation or stockholder activism, which could cause us to incur significant expense, hinder execution of investment strategy and impact our stock price.. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class-action litigation has often been brought against that company. Stockholder activism, which could take many forms or arise in a variety of situations, has been increasing in the BDC space recently. While we are currently not subject to any securities litigation or stockholder activism, due to the potential volatility of our stock price and for a variety of other reasons, we may in the future become the target of securities litigation or stockholder activism. Securities litigation and stockholder activism, including potential proxy contests, could result in substantial costs and divert management's and our board of directors' attention and resources from our business. Additionally, such securities litigation and stockholder activism could give rise to perceived uncertainties as to our future, adversely affect our relationships with service providers and make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel. Also, we may be required to incur significant. 39. legal fees and other expenses related to any securities litigation and activist stockholder matters. Further, our stock price could be subject to significant fluctuation or otherwise be adversely affected by the events, risks and uncertainties of any securities litigation and stockholder activism.. Risks Related to Our Investments. We may not realize gains from our equity investments.. When we make a debt investment, we may acquire warrants or other equity securities as well. In addition, we may invest directly in the equity securities of portfolio companies. Our goal is ultimately to dispose of such equity interests and realize gains upon our disposition of such interests. However, the equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience.. Our investments are very risky and highly speculative.. We invest primarily in senior secured first lien term loans and senior secured second lien term loans issued by private middle-market companies.. Senior Secured Loans There is a risk that the collateral securing our loans may decrease in value over time, may be difficult to sell in a timely manner, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based upon the success of the business and market conditions, including as a result of the inability of the portfolio company to raise additional capital, and, in some circumstances, our lien could be subordinated to claims of other creditors. In addition, deterioration in a portfolio company's financial condition and prospects, including its inability to raise additional capital, may be accompanied by deterioration in the value of the collateral for the loan. Consequently, the fact that a loan is secured does not guarantee that we will receive principal and interest payments according to the loan's terms, or at all, or that we will be able to collect on the loan should we be forced to enforce our remedies.. Equity Investments When we invest in senior secured first lien term loans or senior secured second lien term loans, we may receive warrants or other equity securities as well. In addition, we may invest directly in the equity securities of portfolio companies. The warrants or equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our warrants or equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any warrants or equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience.. In addition, investing in private middle-market companies involves a number of significant risks. See \"Our investments in private middle-market portfolio companies may be risky, and you could lose all or part of your investment\" below.. Our investments in private middle-market portfolio companies may be risky, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Investments in private middle-market companies involve a number of significant risks. Generally, little public information exists about these companies, and we are required to rely on the ability of the Investment Team to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns from investing in these companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investments. Private middle-market companies may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of our realizing any guarantees we may have obtained in connection with our investment. In addition, they typically have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors' actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns. Additionally, private middle-market companies are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us. Private middle-market companies also generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position. In addition, our executive officers, directors and MCC Advisors may, in the ordinary course of business, be named as defendants in litigation arising from our investments in these types of companies.. We intend to invest primarily in secured debt issued by our portfolio companies. In the case of our senior secured first lien term loans, the portfolio companies usually have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks equally with the debt securities in which we invest. With respect to our senior secured second lien term loans, the portfolio companies usually have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks above or equally with the debt securities in which we invest. In the case of debt ranking above the senior secured second lien term loans in which we invest, we would be subordinate to such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company and therefore the holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt securities in which we invest, we would have to share any distributions on an equal and ratable basis with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company.. Additionally, certain loans that we make to portfolio companies may be secured on a second priority basis by the same collateral securing senior secured debt of such companies. The first priority liens on the collateral will secure the portfolio company's obligations under any outstanding senior debt and may secure certain other future debt that may be permitted to be incurred by the portfolio company under the agreements governing the loans. The holders of obligations secured by the first priority liens on the collateral will generally control the liquidation of, and be entitled to receive proceeds from, any realization of the collateral to repay their obligations in full before us. In addition, the value of the collateral in the event of liquidation will depend on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. There can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from the sale or sales of all of the collateral would be sufficient to satisfy the loan obligations secured by the second priority liens after payment in full of all obligations secured by the first priority liens on the collateral. If such proceeds are not sufficient to repay amounts outstanding under the loan obligations secured by the second priority liens, then we, to the extent not repaid from the proceeds of the sale of the collateral, will only have an unsecured claim against the portfolio company's remaining assets, if any.. 40. The rights we may have with respect to the collateral securing the loans we make to our portfolio companies with senior debt outstanding may also be limited pursuant to the terms of one or more intercreditor agreements that we enter into with the holders of senior debt. Under such an intercreditor agreement, at any time that obligations that have the benefit of the first priority liens are outstanding, any of the following actions that may be taken in respect of the collateral will be at the direction of the holders of the obligations secured by the first priority liens: (1) the ability to cause the commencement of enforcement proceedings against the collateral; (2) the ability to control the conduct of such proceedings; (3) the approval of amendments to collateral documents; (4) releases of liens on the collateral; and (5) waivers of past defaults under collateral documents. We may not have the ability to control or direct such actions, even if our rights are adversely affected.. Continuation of the current decline in oil and natural gas prices for a prolonged period of time could have a material adverse effect on the Company.. Approximately 6.5% of the Company's portfolio at fair value is invested in energy-related businesses. A decline in oil and natural gas prices would adversely affect the credit quality of these investments. A decrease in credit quality would, in turn, negatively affect the fair value of these investments, which would consequently negatively affect the Company's financial position and results of operations. Should the current decline in oil and natural gas prices persist, it is likely that the Company's energy-related portfolio companies' abilities to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by the Company or other lenders will be adversely affected, thereby negatively impacting the Company's financial condition and their ability to satisfy their debt service and other obligations to the Company.. Our portfolio companies may prepay loans, which prepayment may reduce stated yields if capital returned cannot be invested in transactions with equal or greater expected yields.. Our loans to portfolio companies are callable at any time, and most of them at no premium to par. It is uncertain as to when each loan may be called. Whether a loan is called will depend both on the continued positive performance of the portfolio company and the existence of favorable financing market conditions that allow such company the ability to replace existing financing with less expensive capital. As market conditions change frequently, it is unknown when, and if, this may be possible for each portfolio company. In the case of some of these loans, having the loan called early may reduce the achievable yield for us below the stated yield to maturity contained herein if the capital returned cannot be invested in transactions with equal or greater expected yields.. We may acquire indirect interests in loans rather than direct interests, which would subject us to additional risk.. We may make or acquire loans or investments through participation agreements. A participation agreement typically results in a contractual relationship only with the counterparty to the participation agreement and not with the borrower. MCC Advisors has adopted best execution procedures and guidelines to mitigate credit and counterparty risk when we acquire a loan through a participation agreement. In investing through participations, we will generally not have a right to enforce compliance by the borrower with the terms of the loan agreement against the borrower, and we may not directly benefit from the collateral supporting the debt obligation in which it has purchased the participation. As a result, we will be exposed to the credit risk of both the borrower and the counterparty selling the participation. In the event of insolvency of the counterparty, we, by virtue of holding participation interests in the loan, may be treated as its general unsecured creditor. In addition, although we may have certain contractual rights under the loan participation that require the counterparty to obtain our consent prior to taking various actions relating to the loan, we cannot guarantee that the counterparty will seek such consent prior to taking various actions. Further, in investing through participation agreements, we may not be able to conduct the due diligence on the borrower or the quality of the loan with respect to which it is buying a participation that we would otherwise conduct if we were investing directly in the loan, which may result in us being exposed to greater credit or fraud risk with respect to the borrower or the loan than we expected when initially purchasing the participation. See \"Risks Related to Our Business - There are significant potential conflicts of interest that could affect our investment returns\" above.. Our failure to make follow-on investments in our portfolio companies could impair the value of our portfolio and our ability to make follow-on investments in certain portfolio companies may be restricted.. Following an initial investment in a portfolio company, provided that there are no restrictions imposed by the 1940 Act, we may make additional investments in that portfolio company as \"follow-on\" investments in order to: (1) increase or maintain in whole or in part our equity ownership percentage; (2) exercise warrants, options or convertible securities that were acquired in the original or subsequent financing; or (3) attempt to preserve or enhance the value of our initial investment.. We have the discretion to make any follow-on investments, subject to the availability of capital resources. We may elect not to make follow-on investments or otherwise lack sufficient funds to make those investments. Our failure to make follow-on investments may, in some circumstances, jeopardize the continued viability of a portfolio company and our initial investment, or may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation. Even if we have sufficient capital to make a desired follow-on investment, we may elect not to make such follow-on investment because we may not want to increase our concentration of risk, because we prefer other opportunities, because we are inhibited by compliance with BDC requirements or because we desire to maintain our RIC tax status. We also may be restricted from making follow-on investments in certain portfolio companies to the extent that affiliates of ours hold interests in such companies.. Our ability to invest in public companies may be limited in certain circumstances.. To maintain our status as a BDC, we are not permitted to acquire any assets other than \"qualifying assets\" specified in the 1940 Act unless, at the time the acquisition is made, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets (with certain limited exceptions). Subject to certain exceptions for follow-on investments and distressed companies, an investment in an issuer that has outstanding securities listed on a national securities exchange may be treated as qualifying assets only if such issuer has a market capitalization that is less than $250 million at the time of such investment. In addition, we may invest up to 30% of our portfolio in opportunistic investments which will be intended to diversify or complement the remainder of our portfolio and to enhance our returns to stockholders. These investments may include private equity investments, securities of public companies that are broadly traded and securities of non-U.S. companies. We expect that these public companies generally will have debt securities that are non-investment grade.. 41. Our investments in foreign securities may involve significant risks in addition to the risks inherent in U.S. investments.. Our investment strategy contemplates that a portion of our investments may be in securities of foreign companies. Investing in foreign companies may expose us to additional risks not typically associated with investing in U.S. companies. These risks include changes in exchange control regulations, political and social instability, expropriation, imposition of foreign taxes, less liquid markets and less available information than is generally the case in the United States, higher transaction costs, less government supervision of exchanges, brokers and issuers, less developed bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards and greater price volatility.. Although it is anticipated that most of our investments will be denominated in U.S. dollars, our investments that are denominated in a foreign currency will be subject to the risk that the value of a particular currency may change in relation to the U.S. dollar. Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the level of short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital appreciation and political developments. We may employ hedging techniques to minimize these risks, but we can offer no assurance that we will, in fact, hedge currency risk or, that if we do, such strategies will be effective. As a result, a change in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our profitability.. Hedging transactions may expose us to additional risks.. We may engage in currency or interest rate hedging transactions. If we engage in hedging transactions, we may expose ourselves to risks associated with such transactions. We may utilize instruments such as forward contracts, currency options and interest rate swaps, caps, collars and floors to seek to hedge against fluctuations in the relative values of our portfolio positions from changes in currency exchange rates and market interest rates. Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. However, such hedging can establish other positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of such portfolio positions. Such hedging transaction may also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the underlying portfolio positions should increase. Moreover, it may not be possible to hedge against an exchange rate or interest rate fluctuation that is so generally anticipated that we are not able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price.. While we may enter into transactions to seek to reduce currency exchange rate and interest rate risks, unanticipated changes in currency exchange rates or interest rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged may vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek or be able to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. In addition, it may not be possible to hedge fully or perfectly against currency fluctuations affecting the value of securities denominated in non-U.S. currencies because the value of those securities is likely to fluctuate as a result of factors not related to currency fluctuations.. The disposition of our investments may result in contingent liabilities.. We currently expect that a significant portion of our investments will involve lending directly to private companies. In connection with the disposition of an investment in private securities, we may be required to make representations about the business and financial affairs of the portfolio company typical of those made in connection with the sale of a business. We may also be required to indemnify the purchasers of such investment to the extent that any such representations turn out to be inaccurate or with respect to certain potential liabilities. These arrangements may result in contingent liabilities that ultimately yield funding obligations that must be satisfied through our return of certain distributions previously made to us.. If we invest in the securities and obligations of distressed and bankrupt issuers, we might not receive interest or other payments.. We may invest in the securities and obligations of distressed and bankrupt issuers, including debt obligations that are in covenant or payment default. Such investments generally are considered speculative. The repayment of defaulted obligations is subject to significant uncertainties. Defaulted obligations might be repaid only after lengthy workout or bankruptcy proceedings, during which the issuer of those obligations might not make any interest or other payments. We may not realize gains from our equity investments.. Risks Related to Our Operations as a BDC and a RIC. Regulations governing our operation as a BDC may limit our ability to, and the way in which we raise additional capital, which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business requires a substantial amount of capital to operate and grow. We may acquire additional capital from the issuance of senior securities (including debt and preferred stock), the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or from securitization transactions. We also may issue, through our SBIC subsidiary, additional SBA-guaranteed debentures, subject to certain restrictions. For a discussion of the requirements for issuing SBA-guaranteed debentures, see \"Regulation - Small Business Investment Company Regulations.\" However, we may not be able to raise additional capital in the future on favorable terms or at all. Additionally, we may only issue senior securities up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act permits us to issue senior securities only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after such issuance or incurrence. If our assets decline in value and we fail to satisfy this test, we may be required to liquidate a portion of our investments and repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when such sales or repayment may be disadvantageous, which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. • Senior Securities. As a result of issuing senior securities, we would also be exposed to typical risks associated with leverage, including an increased risk of loss. If we issue preferred securities, such securities would rank \"senior\" to common stock in our capital structure, resulting in preferred stockholders having separate voting rights and possibly rights, preferences or privileges more favorable than those granted to holders of our common stock. Furthermore, the issuance of preferred securities could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stockholders or otherwise be in your best interest.. 42. • Additional Common Stock. Our board of directors may decide to issue common stock to finance our operations rather than issuing debt or other senior securities. As a BDC, we are generally not able to issue our common stock at a price below NAV without first obtaining required approvals from our stockholders and our independent directors. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price that, in the determination of our board of directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities at the relevant time. We may also make rights offerings to our stockholders at prices per share less than the NAV per share, subject to the requirements of the 1940 Act. If we raise additional funds by issuing more common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders at that time would decrease, and such stockholders may experience dilution.. Changes in the laws or regulations governing our business, or changes in the interpretations thereof, and any failure by us to comply with these laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Changes in the laws or regulations or the interpretations of the laws and regulations that govern BDCs, RICs or non-depository commercial lenders could significantly affect our operations and our cost of doing business. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations and are subject to judicial and administrative decisions that affect our operations, including our loan originations, maximum interest rates, fees and other charges, disclosures to portfolio companies, the terms of secured transactions, collection and foreclosure procedures and other trade practices. If these laws, regulations or decisions change, or if we expand our business into jurisdictions that have adopted more stringent requirements than those in which we currently conduct business, we may have to incur significant expenses in order to comply, or we might have to restrict our operations. In addition, if we do not comply with applicable laws, regulations and decisions, we may lose licenses needed for the conduct of our business and may be subject to civil fines and criminal penalties. In addition, any change to the SBA's current debenture SBIC program could have a significant impact on our ability to obtain lower-cost leverage, through our SBIC subsidiary, and therefore, our ability to compete with other finance companies.. The impact of recent financial reform legislation on us is uncertain.. The Dodd-Frank Reform Act became effective on July 21, 2010. Many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Reform Act have delayed effective dates or have required extensive rulemaking by regulatory authorities. However, the new presidential administration has announced its intention to repeal, amend, or replace certain portions of the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulations implemented thereunder. Given the uncertainty associated with the manner in which and whether the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented, repealed, amended, or replaced, the full impact such requirements will have on our business, results of operations or financial condition is unclear. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act or any changes to the regulations already implemented thereunder may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make necessary changes in order to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with any such laws, regulations or principles, or changes thereto, may negatively impact our business, results of operations or financial condition. While we cannot predict what effect any changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us as a result of recent financial reform legislation, these changes could be materially adverse to us and our stockholders.. If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could fail to qualify as a BDC, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As a BDC, we may not acquire any assets other than \"qualifying assets\" unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets. See \"Regulation\". Our intent is that a substantial portion of the investments that we acquire will constitute qualifying assets. However, we may be precluded from investing in what we believe are attractive investments if such investments are not qualifying assets for purposes of the 1940 Act. If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could be found to be in violation of the 1940 Act provisions applicable to BDCs and possibly lose our status as a BDC, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We will become subject to corporate-level U.S. federal income tax if we are unable to maintain our qualification as a regulated investment company under Subchapter M of the Code.. We have elected and qualified to be treated as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code and intend to maintain such qualification for succeeding tax years. No assurance can be given that we will be able to qualify for and maintain our RIC tax treatment. To obtain and maintain RIC tax treatment under the Code, we must meet the following annual distribution, income source and asset diversification requirements.. • The distribution requirement for a RIC is satisfied if we distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our net ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any. Because we may use debt financing, we are subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and financial covenants under loan and credit agreements that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to satisfy the distribution requirement. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we could fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level U.S. federal income tax.. • The income source requirement is satisfied if we obtain at least 90% of our income for each fiscal year from dividends, interest, gains from the sale of stock or securities or similar sources.. • The asset diversification requirement is satisfied if we meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each quarter of our taxable year. Failure to meet those requirements may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of RIC tax treatment. Because most of our investments will be in private companies, and therefore will be relatively illiquid, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and could result in substantial losses.. 43. If we fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment for any reason and remain or become subject to corporate-level U.S. federal income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions. Such a failure would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial conditions, and thus, our stockholders.. Risks Relating to an Investment in Our Securities. Investing in our securities may involve an above average degree of risk.. The investments we make in accordance with our investment objective may result in a higher amount of risk than alternative investment options and a higher risk of volatility or loss of principal. Our investments in portfolio companies involve higher levels of risk and, therefore, an investment in our securities may not be suitable for someone with lower risk tolerance.. Shares of closed-end investment companies, including business development companies, may, at times, trade at a discount to their NAV.. Shares of closed-end investment companies, including business development companies, may, at times, trade at a discount from NAV. This characteristic of closed-end investment companies and business development companies is separate and distinct from the risk that our NAV per share may decline. We cannot predict whether our common stock will trade at, above or below NAV.. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly.. The market price and liquidity of the market for shares of our common stock may be significantly affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include:. • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of business development companies or other companies in our sector, which are not necessarily related to the operating performance of the companies;. • changes in regulatory policies, accounting pronouncements or tax guidelines, particularly with respect to BDCs, SBICs or RICs;. • loss of our qualification as a RIC or BDC or our SBIC subsidiary's status as an SBIC;. • changes in earnings or variations in operating results;. • changes in the value of our portfolio of investments;. • changes in accounting guidelines governing valuation of our investments;. • any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts;. • departure of MCC Advisors' or any of its affiliates' key personnel;. • operating performance of companies comparable to us;. • general economic trends and other external factors; and. • loss of a major funding source.. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the availability of such common stock for sale, could adversely affect the prevailing market prices for our common stock. If this occurs and continues, it could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of securities should we desire to do so.. Certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock.. The Delaware General Corporation Law, our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us. These anti-takeover provisions may inhibit a change in control in circumstances that could give the holders of our common stock the opportunity to realize a premium over the market price of our common stock.. The NAV per share of our common stock may be diluted if we sell shares of our common stock in one or more offerings at prices below the then current NAV per share of our common stock or securities to subscribe for or convertible into shares of our common stock.. While we currently do not have the requisite stockholder approval to sell shares of our common stock at a price or prices below our then current NAV per share, we may seek such approval in the future. In addition, at our 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, we received approval from our stockholders to authorize the Company, with the approval of our board of directors, to issue securities to, subscribe to, convert to, or purchase shares of the Company's common stock in one or more offerings, subject to certain conditions as set forth in the proxy statement. Such authorization has no expiration.. Any decision to sell shares of our common stock below its then current NAV per share or issue securities to subscribe for or convertible into shares of our common stock would be subject to the determination by our board of directors that such issuance is in our and our stockholders' best interests.. 44. If we were to sell shares of our common stock below its then current NAV per share, such sales would result in an immediate dilution to the NAV per share of our common stock. This dilution would occur as a result of the sale of shares at a price below the then current NAV per share of our common stock and a proportionately greater decrease in the stockholders' interest in our earnings and assets and their voting interest in us than the increase in our assets resulting from such issuance. Because the number of shares of common stock that could be so issued and the timing of any issuance is not currently known, the actual dilutive effect cannot be predicted.. If we issue warrants or securities to subscribe for or convertible into shares of our common stock, subject to certain limitations, the exercise or conversion price per share could be less than NAV per share at the time of exercise or conversion (including through the operation of anti-dilution protections). Because we would incur expenses in connection with any issuance of such securities, such issuance could result in a dilution of the NAV per share at the time of exercise or conversion. This dilution would include reduction in NAV per share as a result of the proportionately greater decrease in the stockholders' interest in our earnings and assets and their voting interest than the increase in our assets resulting from such issuance.. Further, if our current stockholders do not purchase any shares to maintain their percentage interest, regardless of whether such offering is above or below the then current NAV per share, their voting power will be diluted. For example, if we sell an additional 10% of our shares of common stock at a 5% discount from NAV, a stockholder who does not participate in that offering for its proportionate interest will suffer NAV dilution of up to 0.5% or $5 per $1,000 of NAV.. The Notes are unsecured and therefore are effectively subordinated to any secured indebtedness we have currently incurred or may incur in the future.. The Notes are not secured by any of our assets or any of the assets of our subsidiaries. As a result, the Notes are effectively subordinated to any secured indebtedness we or our subsidiaries have currently incurred and may incur in the future (or any indebtedness that is initially unsecured to which we subsequently grant security) to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness. In any liquidation, dissolution, bankruptcy or other similar proceeding, the holders of any of our existing or future secured indebtedness and the secured indebtedness of our subsidiaries may assert rights against the assets pledged to secure that indebtedness in order to receive full payment of their indebtedness before the assets may be used to pay other creditors, including the holders of the Notes. As of September 30, 2017, before netting out debt issuance costs, there was $102.0 million outstanding under our Term Loan Facility, $68.0 million outstanding under our Revolving Credit Facility, and $150.0 million SBA-guaranteed debentures outstanding. The indebtedness under the Facilities and the SBA-guaranteed debentures are effectively senior to the Notes to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness.. The Notes are structurally subordinated to the indebtedness and other liabilities of our subsidiaries.. The Notes are obligations exclusively of the Company and not of any of our subsidiaries. None of our subsidiaries is a guarantor of the Notes and the Notes are not required to be guaranteed by any subsidiary we may acquire or create in the future. Any assets of our subsidiaries will not be directly available to satisfy the claims of our creditors, including holders of the Notes. Except to the extent we are a creditor with recognized claims against our subsidiaries, all claims of creditors of our subsidiaries will have priority over our equity interests in such subsidiaries (and therefore the claims of our creditors, including holders of the Notes) with respect to the assets of such subsidiaries. Even if we are recognized as a creditor of one or more of our subsidiaries, our claims would still be effectively subordinated to any security interests in the assets of any such subsidiary and to any indebtedness or other liabilities of any such subsidiary senior to our claims. Consequently, the Notes will be structurally subordinated to all indebtedness and other liabilities of any of our subsidiaries and any subsidiaries that we may in the future acquire or establish. Although our subsidiaries currently do not have any indebtedness outstanding, they may incur substantial indebtedness in the future, all of which would be structurally senior to the Notes.. The indenture under which the Notes were issued contains limited protection for holders of the Notes.. The indenture under which the Notes were issued offers limited protection to holders of the Notes. The terms of the indenture and the Notes do not restrict our or any of our subsidiaries' ability to engage in, or otherwise be a party to, a variety of corporate transactions, circumstances or events that could have an adverse impact on your investment in the Notes. In particular, the terms of the indenture and the Notes place no restrictions on our or our subsidiaries' ability to:. • issue securities or otherwise incur additional indebtedness or other obligations, including (1) any indebtedness or other obligations that would be equal in right of payment to the Notes, (2) any indebtedness or other obligations that would be secured and therefore rank effectively senior in right of payment to the Notes to the extent of the values of the assets securing such debt, (3) indebtedness of ours that is guaranteed by one or more of our subsidiaries and which therefore is structurally senior to the Notes and (4) securities, indebtedness or obligations issued or incurred by our subsidiaries that would be senior to our equity interests in our subsidiaries and therefore rank structurally senior to the Notes with respect to the assets of our subsidiaries, in each case other than an incurrence of indebtedness or other obligation that would cause a violation of Section 18(a)(1)(A) of the 1940 Act, as modified by Section 61(a)(1) of the 1940 Act, or any successor provisions. These provisions generally prohibit us from making additional borrowings, including through the issuance of additional debt or the sale of additional debt securities, unless our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after such borrowings;. • pay dividends on, or purchase or redeem or make any payments in respect of, capital stock or other securities ranking junior in right of payment to the Notes, in each case other than dividends, purchases, redemptions or payments that would cause a violation of Section 18(a)(1)(B) of the 1940 Act, as modified by Section 61(a)(1) of the 1940 Act, or any successor provisions. These provisions generally prohibit us from declaring any cash dividend or distribution upon any class of our capital stock, or purchasing any such capital stock if our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, is below 200% at the time of the declaration of the dividend or distribution or the purchase and after deducting the amount of such dividend, distribution or purchase;. • sell assets (other than certain limited restrictions on our ability to consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets);. 45. • enter into transactions with affiliates;. • create liens (including liens on the shares of our subsidiaries) or enter into sale and leaseback transactions;. • make investments; or. • create restrictions on the payment of dividends or other amounts to us from our subsidiaries.. In addition, the indenture does not require us to offer to purchase the Notes in connection with a change of control or any other event.. Furthermore, the terms of the indenture and the Notes generally do not protect holders of the Notes in the event that we experience changes (including significant adverse changes) in our financial condition, results of operations or credit ratings, as they do not require that we or our subsidiaries adhere to any financial tests or ratios or specified levels of net worth, revenues, income, cash flow, or liquidity other than as described under the indenture. Any changes, while unlikely, to the financial tests in the 1940 Act could affect the terms of the Notes.. Our ability to recapitalize, incur additional debt and take a number of other actions that are not limited by the terms of the Notes may have important consequences for you as a holder of the Notes, including making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the Notes or negatively affecting the trading value of the Notes. Other debt we issue or incur in the future could contain more protections for its holders than the indenture and the Notes, including additional covenants and events of default. For example, the indenture under which the Notes will be issued does not contain cross-default provisions that are contained in the Facilities. The issuance or incurrence of any such debt with incremental protections could affect the market for and trading levels and prices of the Notes.. An active trading market for the Notes may not develop or be sustained, which could limit the market price of the Notes or your ability to sell them.. Although the Notes are listed on the NYSE under the symbols \"MCV,\" in the case of the 2023 Notes, and \"MCX,\" in the case of the 2021 Notes, we cannot provide any assurances that an active trading market will develop or be sustained for the Notes or that you will be able to sell your Notes. At various times, the Notes may trade at a discount from their initial offering price depending on prevailing interest rates, the market for similar securities, our credit ratings, general economic conditions, our financial condition, performance and prospects and other factors. To the extent an active trading market is not sustained, the liquidity and trading price for the Notes may be harmed.. If we default on our obligations to pay our other indebtedness, we may not be able to make payments on the Notes.. Any default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, including a default under the Facilities or other indebtedness to which we may be a party that is not waived by the required lenders, and the remedies sought by the holders of such indebtedness could make us unable to pay principal, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes and substantially decrease the market value of the Notes. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow and are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants, including financial and operating covenants, in the instruments governing our indebtedness (including the Facilities), we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness. In the event of such default, the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, the lenders under the Facilities or other debt we may incur in the future could elect to terminate their commitments, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If our operating performance declines, we may in the future need to seek to obtain waivers from the required lenders under the Facilities or other debt that we may incur in the future to avoid being in default. If we breach our covenants under the Facilities or other debt and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required lenders. If this occurs, we would be in default under the Facilities or other debt, the lenders could exercise their rights as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If we are unable to repay debt, lenders having secured obligations could proceed against the collateral securing the debt. Because the Facilities have, and any future credit facilities will likely have, customary cross-default provisions, if the indebtedness under the Notes, the Facilities or under any future credit facility is accelerated, we may be unable to repay or finance the amounts due.. If we issue preferred stock, the NAV and market value of our common stock may become more volatile.. If we issue preferred stock, we cannot assure you that such issuance would result in a higher yield or return to the holders of our common stock. The issuance of preferred stock would likely cause the NAV and market value of our common stock to become more volatile. If the dividend rate on the preferred stock were to approach the net rate of return on our investment portfolio, the benefit of leverage to the holders of our common stock would be reduced. If the dividend rate on the preferred stock were to exceed the net rate of return on our portfolio, the leverage would result in a lower rate of return to the holders of our common stock than if we had not issued preferred stock. Any decline in the NAV of our investments would be borne entirely by the holders of our common stock. Therefore, if the market value of our portfolio were to decline, the leverage would result in a greater decrease in NAV to the holders of our common stock than if we were not leveraged through the issuance of preferred stock. This greater NAV decrease would also tend to cause a greater decline in the market price for our common stock. We might be in danger of failing to maintain the required asset coverage of the preferred stock or of losing our ratings on the preferred stock or, in an extreme case, our current investment income might not be sufficient to meet the dividend requirements on the preferred stock. In order to counteract such an event, we might need to liquidate investments in order to fund a redemption of some or all of the preferred stock. In addition, we would pay (and the holders of our common stock would bear) all costs and expenses relating to the issuance and ongoing maintenance of the preferred stock, including higher advisory fees if our total return exceeds the dividend rate on the preferred stock. Holders of preferred stock may have different interests than holders of our common stock and may at times have disproportionate influence over our affairs.. 46. Holders of any preferred stock we might issue would have the right to elect members of the board of directors and class voting rights on certain matters.. Holders of any preferred stock we might issue, voting separately as a single class, would have the right to elect two members of the board of directors at all times and in the event dividends become two full years in arrears, would have the right to elect a majority of our directors until such arrearage is completely eliminated. In addition, preferred stockholders would have class voting rights on certain matters, including changes in fundamental investment restrictions and conversion to open-end status, and accordingly would be able to veto any such changes. Restrictions imposed on the declarations and payment of dividends or other distributions to the holders of our common stock and preferred stock, both by the 1940 Act and by requirements imposed by rating agencies or the terms of our Facilities, might impair our ability to maintain our qualification as a RIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. While we would intend to redeem our preferred stock to the extent necessary to enable us to distribute our income as required to maintain our qualification as a RIC, there can be no assurance that such actions could be effected in time to meet the tax requirements."
