[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business is subject to a number of factors that could materially affect future developments and performance. In addition to factors affecting our business that have been described elsewhere in this Form 10-K, any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our securities.. Economic conditions could have an adverse effect on our business.. Our operations and performance depend significantly on economic conditions. During the year ended December 31, 2017, the percentage of our patient service revenue being reimbursed under GHC Programs increased slightly as compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. Although economic conditions in the United States have improved since the economic downturn several years ago, we could experience additional shifts toward GHC Programs, and patient volumes could decline, if economic conditions deteriorate. Adverse economic conditions could also lead to additional increases in the number of unemployed and under-employed workers and a decline in the number of private employers that offer healthcare insurance coverage to their employees. Employers that do offer healthcare coverage may increase the required contributions from employees to pay for their coverage and increase patient responsibility amounts. In addition, certain private payors' poor experience with the healthcare insurance exchanges and uncertainty around the future of the ACA and healthcare insurance exchanges may result in those payors exiting the healthcare insurance exchange marketplaces or the cessation of the healthcare insurance exchanges. As a consequence, the number of patients who participate in GHC Programs or who are uninsured or underinsured could increase. Payments received from GHC Programs are substantially less than payments received from private healthcare insurance programs (managed care and other third-party payors). Payments under policies issued through the healthcare insurance exchanges may be less than payments from private healthcare insurance programs and in some cases, patients' responsibility for costs related to healthcare plans obtained through the healthcare insurance exchanges may be high and could increase in the future, and we may experience increased bad debt due to patients' inability to pay for certain services. A payor mix shift from private healthcare insurance programs to GHC Programs or to healthcare insurance exchanges may result in an increase in our estimated provision for contractual adjustments and uncollectibles and a corresponding decrease in our net revenue, as well as a significant reduction in our average reimbursement rates.. State budgetary constraints and the uncertainty over the future of Medicaid could have an adverse effect on our reimbursement from Medicaid programs.. Congress and the current Administration have expressed interest in repealing, and have attempted to repeal, the ACA and substantially reform the Medicaid program. In doing so, Congress may repeal the provisions of the ACA that encouraged states to expand Medicaid eligibility to more adults, including additional federal matching funds that enabled states to do so. The ACA allowed states to expand their Medicaid programs through federal payments that fund most of the cost of increasing the Medicaid eligibility income limit from a state's historic eligibility levels to 133% of the federal poverty level. As of December 31, 2017, 32 states and the District of Columbia implemented the expansion of Medicaid eligibility. All of the states in which we operate, however, already cover children in the first year of life and pregnant women if their household incomes are at or below 133% of the federal poverty level. If states that expanded Medicaid reduce or eliminate eligibility for certain individuals, the number of patients who are uninsured could increase. Some states may seek to maintain expanded eligibility and to do so could offset the cost by further reducing payments to providers of services. In some states, we could experience delayed or reduced Medicaid payment for services furnished to program enrollees.. Congress and the current Administration is also considering enacting substantial reforms to Medicaid law to grant states more autonomy and discretion to design Medicaid programs. These changes, if enacted, could reduce or eliminate eligibility for certain individuals, or allow states to reduce payments to providers of services. As a. 28. Table of Contents. result, in some states, we could experience an increase in the number of uninsured patients and delayed or reduced Medicaid payment for services furnished to program enrollees.. In addition, many states are continuing to collect less tax revenue than they did historically and as a consequence continue to face budget shortfalls and underfunded pension and other obligations. Although shortfalls have been declining in more recent budgetary years, they are still significant by historical standards. The financial condition of the states in which we do business could lead to reduced or delayed funding for Medicaid programs and, in turn, reduced or delayed reimbursement for physician services, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. The birth rate in the United States may decline.. Provisional birth data for 2016 indicate that total births in the United States declined by less than 1% as compared to 2015. Although the provisional data for 2017 is not yet available, we expect that birth trends have not materially changed. However, future declines in births are possible and could have an adverse effect on our patient volumes, net revenue, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. The ACA and potential changes to it may have a significant effect on our business.. The ACA contains a number of provisions that have affected us and, absent amendment or repeal, may continue to affect us over the next several years. These provisions include the establishment of health insurance exchanges to facilitate the purchase of qualified health plans, expanded Medicaid eligibility, subsidized insurance premiums and additional requirements and incentives for businesses to provide healthcare benefits. Other provisions have expanded the scope and reach of FCA and other healthcare fraud and abuse laws. Moreover, we could be affected by potential changes to various aspects of the ACA, including subsidies, healthcare insurance marketplaces and Medicaid expansion.. The ACA remains subject to continuing legislative and administrative scrutiny, including efforts by the Republican-controlled Congress and the current Administration to amend or repeal a number of its provisions, as well as administrative actions delaying the effectiveness of key provisions. At the end of 2017, Congress repealed part of the ACA that required most individuals to purchase and maintain health insurance. If the ACA is repealed or further substantially modified, or if implementation of certain aspects of the ACA are diluted or delayed, such repeal, modification or delay may impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our securities. We are unable to predict the impact of any repeal, modification or delay in the implementation of the ACA, including the repeal of the individual mandate, on us at this time.. In addition to the potential impacts to the ACA under the current Administration, there could be more sweeping changes to GHC Programs, such as a change in the structure of Medicaid by converting it into a block grant or instituting \"per capita caps,\" which could eliminate the guarantee that everyone who is eligible and applies for benefits would receive them and could potentially give states sweeping new authority to restrict eligibility, cut benefits and make it more difficult for people to enroll. Additionally, several states are considering and pursuing changes to their Medicaid programs, such as requiring recipients to engage in employment activities as a condition of eligibility for most adults, disenrolling recipients for failure to pay a premium, or adjusting premium amounts based on income.. The ACA and the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 (\"MACRA\") also contain numerous other measures that could also affect us, including, for example, requirements that physicians participate in quality measurement programs that differentiate payments to physicians under Medicare based on quality and cost of care, among other things, or in alternative payment models that bundle payments for episodes of care and share savings based upon established quality of care standards. MACRA also remains subject to review and potential modification by Congress. CMS also has developed a number of voluntary and mandatory demonstration programs that shift payment risk to providers. We will continue to evaluate the impact of the voluntary and mandatory demonstration and shared savings programs on our business and operations.. 29. Table of Contents. As a result, we ultimately cannot predict with any assurance the ultimate effect of these laws and resulting changes to payments under GHC Programs, nor can we provide any assurance that they will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our securities. Further, any fiscal tightening impacting GHC Programs or changes to the structure of any GHC Programs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our securities.. Expanding eligibility of government-sponsored programs could adversely affect our reimbursement.. In January 2018, Congress reauthorized the Children's Health Insurance Program (\"CHIP\") through 2023 and then in February 2018 lengthened this funding extension through 2027. Changes to CHIP or the ACA's expansion of Medicaid coverage could cause patients who otherwise would have participated in private healthcare insurance programs to participate in GHC Programs, or vice versa, or cause patients who otherwise would have been covered by CHIP or Medicaid to lose insurance coverage altogether. Additional reform efforts, as well as amendment or repeal of the ACA, could change the eligibility requirements for Medicaid and for other GHC Programs, including CHIP, and could increase the number of patients who participate in such programs or the number of uninsured patients. Payments received from government-sponsored programs are substantially less than payments received from private healthcare insurance programs (managed care and other third-party payors). A shift in the mix of our payors from private healthcare insurance programs to government payors may result in an increase in our estimated provision for contractual adjustments and uncollectibles and a corresponding decrease in our net revenue, as well as a significant reduction in our average reimbursement rates. Additionally, if Congress does not act to extend CHIP beyond 2027, or if Congress extends CHIP but substantially alters the current program, we could be adversely affected if children in states where we do business lose Medicaid coverage or payments for services furnished to these children are delayed or reduced.. Government-funded programs, private insurers or state laws and regulations may limit, reduce or make retroactive adjustments to reimbursement amounts or rates.. A significant portion of our net revenue is derived from payments made by GHC Programs, principally Medicare and Medicaid. These government-funded programs, as well as private insurers, have taken and may continue to take steps, including a movement toward increased use of managed care organizations, value-based purchasing, and new patient care models to control the cost, eligibility for, use and delivery of healthcare services as a result of budgetary constraints and cost containment pressures due to unfavorable economic conditions, rising healthcare costs and for other reasons, including those described above under Item 1. Business - \"Government Regulation - Government Reimbursement Requirements.\" These government-funded programs and private insurers may attempt other measures to control costs, including bundling of services and denial of, or reduction in, reimbursement for certain services and treatments. In addition, increased consolidation among private insurers is resulting in fewer and larger third-party payors with increased negotiating power. As a result, payments from government programs or private payors may decrease significantly. Also, any adjustment in Medicare reimbursement rates may have a detrimental impact on our reimbursement rates not only for Medicare patients, but also for patients covered under Medicaid and other third-party payors, because a state's Medicaid payments cannot exceed the payments it would have made had those patients been enrolled in traditional Medicare, and other third-party payors often base their reimbursement rates on a percentage of Medicare rates. Our business may also be materially affected by limitations on, or reductions in, reimbursement amounts or rates or elimination of coverage for certain individuals or treatments. Moreover, because government-funded programs generally provide for reimbursements on a fee-schedule basis rather than on a charge-related basis, we generally cannot increase our revenue from these programs through increases in the amount we charge for our services. To the extent our costs increase, we may not be able to recover our increased costs from these programs, and cost containment measures and market changes in non-government-funded insurance plans have generally restricted our ability to recover, or shift to non-governmental payors, these increased costs. In addition, funds we receive from third-party payors are subject to audit with respect to the proper billing for physician and ancillary services and, accordingly, our revenue from these programs may be adjusted retroactively. Any retroactive adjustments to. 30. Table of Contents. our reimbursement amounts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our securities.. In addition, our agreements with certain third-party payors may be terminated for various reasons, requiring us to seek reimbursement as an out-of-network provider. In the event we attempt to balance-bill patients, we may be limited in our ability to do so by certain state laws and regulations. As these laws and regulations continue to develop in certain states, it could incentivize certain third-party payors to terminate agreements as a business strategy which could lower overall reimbursement to providers. Any reductions in reimbursement amounts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our securities.. Medicare pays for most physician services based upon a national service-specific fee schedule. In 2015, Congress enacted the MACRA legislation under which physicians must choose to participate in one of two payment formulas, Merit-Based Incentive Payment System (\"MIPS\") or Alternative Payment Models (\"APMs\"). Beginning in 2019, MIPS will allow eligible physicians to receive incentive payments from Medicare based on the achievement of certain quality and cost metrics, among other measures, and be reduced for those who are underperforming against those same metrics and measures. As an alternative, physicians can choose to participate in an Advanced APM. Advanced APMs are exempt from the MIPS requirements, and physicians who are meaningful participants in APMs will receive bonus payments from Medicare pursuant to the law. We will continue to operationalize the provisions of MACRA and assess any further changes to the law or additional regulations enacted pursuant to the law. At this time we cannot predict the ultimate effect that these changes will have on us, nor can we provide any assurance that these changes will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our securities.. We may become subject to billing investigations by federal and state government authorities and private insurers.. Federal and state laws, rules and regulations impose substantial penalties, including criminal and civil fines, monetary penalties, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs and imprisonment, on entities or individuals (including any individual corporate officers or physicians deemed responsible) that fraudulently or wrongfully bill government-funded programs or other third-party payors for healthcare services. CMS requires states to maintain a Medicaid Recovery Audit Contractor (\"RAC\") program. States are required to contract with one or more eligible Medicaid RACs to review Medicaid claims for any overpayments or underpayments, and to recoup overpayments from providers on behalf of the state. In addition, federal laws, along with a growing number of state laws, allow a private person to bring a civil action in the name of the government for false billing violations. See Item 1. Business -  \"Government Regulation - Fraud and Abuse Provisions.\" Moreover, the current Administration has expressed a desire to increase scrutiny of providers and payments for services to further minimize fraud and abuse of the program. In addition, our contracts with private insurers often provide such insurers with audit rights over payments made to us and the ability to seek recoupment for perceived overpayments. We believe that audits, inquiries and investigations from government agencies and private insurers will occur from time to time in the ordinary course of our business, which could result in substantial costs to us and a diversion of management's time and attention. New regulations and heightened enforcement activity also could materially affect our cost of doing business and our risk of becoming the subject of an audit or investigation. We cannot predict whether any future audits, inquiries or investigations, or the public disclosure of such matters, likely would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our securities. See Item 1. Business - \"Government Investigations.\". The healthcare industry is highly regulated, and government authorities may determine that we have failed to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations.. The healthcare industry and physicians' medical practices, including the healthcare and other services that we and our affiliated physicians provide, are subject to extensive and complex federal, state and local laws, rules. 31. Table of Contents. and regulations, compliance with which imposes substantial costs on us. Of particular importance are the provisions summarized as follows:. <U+0095>    federal laws (including the federal FCA) that prohibit entities and individuals from knowingly or recklessly making claims to Medicare, Medicaid and other government-funded programs that contain false or fraudulent information or from improperly retaining known overpayments;. <U+0095>    a provision of the Social Security Act, commonly referred to as the \"anti-kickback\" statute, that prohibits the knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any bribe, kickback, rebate or other remuneration, in cash or in kind, in return for the referral or recommendation of patients for items and services covered, in whole or in part, by federal healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid;. <U+0095>    a provision of the Social Security Act, commonly referred to as the Stark Law, that, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits physicians from referring Medicare patients to an entity for the provision of certain \"designated health services\" if the physician or a member of such physician's family has a direct or indirect financial relationship (including a compensation arrangement) with the entity;. <U+0095>    similar state law provisions pertaining to anti-kickback, fee splitting, self-referral and false claims, which typically are not limited to relationships involving government-funded programs;. <U+0095>    provisions of HIPAA that prohibit knowingly and willfully executing a scheme or artifice to defraud a healthcare benefit program or falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any material false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services;. <U+0095>    federal and state laws related to confidentiality, privacy and security of personal information, including medical information and records, that limit the manner in which we may use and disclose that information, impose obligations to safeguard that information and require that we notify third parties in the event of a breach;. <U+0095>    state laws that prohibit general business corporations from practicing medicine, controlling physicians' medical decisions or engaging in certain practices, such as splitting fees with physicians;. <U+0095>    federal and state laws governing participation in GHC Programs could result in denial of our application to become a participating provider or revocation of our participation or billing privileges, which in turn, could cause us to not be able to treat patients covered by the applicable program or prohibit us from billing for the treatment services provided to such patients;. <U+0095>    federal and state laws that prohibit providers from billing and receiving payment from Medicare and Medicaid for services unless the services are medically necessary, adequately and accurately documented and billed using codes that accurately reflect the type and level of services rendered;. <U+0095>    federal and state laws pertaining to the provision of services by non-physician practitioners, such as advanced nurse practitioners, physician assistants and other clinical professionals, physician supervision of such services and reimbursement requirements that may be dependent on the manner in which the services are provided and documented; and. <U+0095>    federal laws that impose civil administrative sanctions for, among other violations, inappropriate billing of services to federally funded healthcare programs, inappropriately reducing hospital inpatient lengths of stay for such patients, or employing individuals who are excluded from participation in federally funded healthcare programs.. In addition, we believe that our business will continue to be subject to increasing regulation, the scope and effect of which we cannot predict. See Item 1. Business - \"Government Regulation.\". We may in the future become the subject of regulatory or other investigations, audits or proceedings, and our interpretations of applicable laws, rules and regulations may be challenged. For example, regulatory. 32. Table of Contents. authorities or other parties may assert that our arrangements with our affiliated professional contractors constitute fee splitting or the corporate practice of medicine and seek to invalidate these arrangements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our securities. See Item 1. Business - \"Government Regulation - Fee Splitting; Corporate Practice of Medicine.\" Regulatory authorities or other parties also could assert that our relationships, including fee arrangements, among our affiliated professional contractors, hospital clients or referring physicians violate the anti-kickback, fee splitting or self-referral laws and regulations or that we have submitted false claims or otherwise failed to comply with government program reimbursement requirements. See Item 1. Business - \"Government Regulation - Fraud and Abuse Provisions\" and \" - Government Reimbursement Requirements.\" Such investigations, proceedings and challenges could result in substantial defense costs to us and a diversion of management's time and attention. In addition, violations of these laws are punishable by monetary fines, civil and criminal penalties, exclusion from participation in GHC Programs, and forfeiture of amounts collected in violation of such laws and regulations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our securities.. Federal and state laws that protect the privacy and security of personal information may increase our costs and limit our ability to collect and use that information and subject us to liability if we are unable to fully comply with such laws.. Numerous federal and state laws, rules and regulations govern the collection, dissemination, use, security and confidentiality of personal information, including individually identifiable health information. These laws include:. <U+0095>    Provisions of HIPAA that limit how covered entities and business associates may use and disclose PHI, provide certain rights to individuals with respect to that information and impose certain security requirements;. <U+0095>    HITECH, which strengthens and expands the HIPAA Privacy Rule and Security Rule and imposes data breach notification obligations;. <U+0095>    Other federal and state laws restricting the use and protecting the privacy and security of personal information, including health information, many of which are not preempted by HIPAA;. <U+0095>    Federal and state consumer protection laws; and. <U+0095>    Federal and state laws regulating the conduct of research with human subjects.. As part of our business operations, including our medical record keeping, third-party billing, research and other services, we collect and maintain PHI in paper and electronic format. Standards related to health information, whether implemented pursuant to HIPAA, HITECH, state laws, federal or state action or otherwise, could have a significant effect on the manner in which we handle personal information, including healthcare-related data, and communicate with payors, providers, patients and others, and compliance with these standards could impose significant costs on us or limit our ability to offer services, thereby negatively impacting the business opportunities available to us.. If we are alleged to not comply with existing or new laws, rules and regulations related to PHI we could be subject to litigation and to sanctions that include monetary fines, civil or administrative penalties, civil damage awards or criminal penalties.. Government authorities or other parties may assert that our business practices violate antitrust laws.. The healthcare industry is subject to close antitrust scrutiny. The FTC, the Antitrust Division of the DOJ and state Attorneys General all actively review and, in some cases, take enforcement action against business conduct and acquisitions in the healthcare industry. Private parties harmed by alleged anticompetitive conduct can also. 33. Table of Contents. bring antitrust suits. Violations of antitrust laws may be punishable by substantial penalties, including significant monetary fines, civil penalties, criminal sanctions, and consent decrees and injunctions prohibiting certain activities or requiring divestiture or discontinuance of business operations. Any of these penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our securities.. Our affiliated physicians and third-party contractors may not appropriately record or document services that they provide.. Our affiliated physicians are responsible for appropriately recording and documenting the services that they provide. We use this information to seek reimbursement for their services from third-party payors. In addition, we utilize third-party contractors to perform certain revenue cycle management functions for healthcare providers, including medical coding. If our physicians and third-party contractors do not appropriately document, or where applicable, code for their services or our customers' services, we could be subjected to administrative, regulatory, civil, or criminal investigations or sanctions and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. Failure to manage third-party service providers may adversely affect our ability to maintain the quality of service that we provide.. We outsource a certain portion of our revenue cycle management functions to third-party service providers, but we may increase the amount of revenue cycle management functions we outsource in the future. These functions are performed both domestically and in offshore locations, with our oversight. If our outsourcing partners fail to perform their obligations in a timely manner or at satisfactory quality levels or if they are unable to attract or retain sufficient personnel with the necessary skill sets to meet our outsourcing needs, the efficiency, effectiveness and quality of our services could suffer. In addition, our reliance on a workforce in other countries exposes us to disruptions in the business, political and economic environment in those regions. Further, any changes to existing laws or the enactment of new legislation restricting offshore outsourcing in the United States may adversely affect our ability to outsource functions to third-party offshore service providers. Our ability to manage any difficulties encountered could be largely outside of our control. In addition, payors may have prohibitions or restrictions on the use of third-party service providers and/or require notice for the use of such third-party service providers. Diminished service quality from outsourcing, our inability to utilize offshore service providers or the failure to know about restrictions on the use of third-party service providers could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our securities.. We may not find suitable acquisition candidates or successfully integrate our acquisitions. Our acquisitions may expose us to greater business risks and could affect our payor mix.. We have expanded and continue to seek to expand our presence in new and existing metropolitan areas by acquiring established neonatal, radiology, anesthesia, maternal-fetal, pediatric cardiology and other complementary pediatric subspecialty physician group practices as well teleradiology services companies. Also, both independently and in collaboration with our hospital partners, we may seek to expand into other specialties and subspecialties. In addition, we have acquired physician and other healthcare services companies that are complementary to our physician practices.. Our acquisition strategy involves numerous risks and uncertainties, including:. <U+0095>    We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or strategic opportunities or implement successfully or realize the expected benefits of any suitable opportunities. In addition, we compete for acquisitions with other potential acquirers, some of which may have greater financial or operational resources than we do. This competition may intensify due to the ongoing consolidation in the healthcare industry, which may increase our acquisition costs.. 34. Table of Contents. <U+0095>    We may not be able to complete acquisitions of physician practices or services companies or we may complete acquisitions on less favorable terms as a result of changes in tax laws, financial market or other economic or market conditions.. <U+0095>    We may not be able to successfully integrate completed acquisitions, including our recent acquisitions. Integrating completed acquisitions into our existing operations involves numerous short-term and long-term risks, including diversion of our management's attention, failure to retain key personnel, long-term value of acquired intangible assets and acquisition expenses. In addition, we may be required to comply with laws, rules and regulations that may differ not only from those of the states in which our operations are currently conducted but from an expansion in the service offerings we provide in certain states for which the laws, rules and regulations may be different.. <U+0095>    We cannot be certain that any acquired business will continue to maintain its pre-acquisition revenue and growth rates or be financially successful. In addition, we cannot be certain of the extent of any unknown or contingent liabilities of any acquired business, including liabilities for failure to comply with applicable laws, or liabilities relating to medical malpractice claims. Generally we obtain indemnification agreements from the sellers of businesses acquired with respect to pre-closing acts, omissions and other similar risks. It is possible that we may seek to enforce indemnification provisions in the future against sellers who may no longer have the financial wherewithal to satisfy their obligations to us. Accordingly, we may incur material liabilities for past activities of acquired businesses.. <U+0095>    We could incur or assume indebtedness and issue equity in connection with acquisitions. The issuance of shares of our common stock for an acquisition may result in dilution to our existing shareholders and, depending on the number of shares that we issue, the resale of such shares could affect the trading price of our common stock.. <U+0095>    We may acquire businesses that derive a greater portion of their revenue from GHC Programs than what we recognize on a consolidated basis or that have business models with lower operating margins than ours. These acquisitions could affect our overall payor mix or operating results in future periods.. <U+0095>    Acquisitions of practices and services companies could entail financial and operating risks not fully anticipated. Such acquisitions could divert management's attention and our resources.. <U+0095>    An acquisition could be subject to a challenge under the antitrust laws either before or after it is consummated. Such a challenge could involve substantial legal costs and divert management's attention and resources and could result in us having to abandon the transaction or make a divestiture.. We may not be able to successfully execute our same-unit and organic growth strategies.. In addition to our acquisition growth strategy, we seek opportunities for increasing revenue from our existing operations through same-unit and organic growth strategies. We also seek opportunities to grow organically outside of our existing operations. We may not be able to successfully execute our same-unit and organic growth strategies for reasons including the following:. <U+0095>    We may not be able to expand the services that our affiliated physicians provide to our hospital partners or the services provided by our services companies to their customers.. <U+0095>    We may not be able to attract referrals to our office-based practices or neonatology transports to our hospital-based units.. <U+0095>    We may not be able to execute new contractual arrangements with hospitals, including through joint ventures, where we either currently provide or do not currently provide physician services.. <U+0095>    We may not be able to work with our hospital partners to develop integrated services programs for which we become a multi-specialty provider of solutions within the maternal-fetal, newborn, pediatric continuum of care.. 35. Table of Contents. <U+0095>    We may not accurately project same-unit and organic growth performance, or we may experience a shift in the mix of services that certain of our customers request from us, potentially resulting in lower margins.. In addition, certain of our organic growth strategies may involve risks and uncertainties similar to those for our acquisition strategy. See \"We may not find suitable acquisition candidates or successfully integrate our acquisitions. Our acquisitions may expose us to greater business risks and could affect our payor mix.\". We may not be able to maintain effective and efficient information systems or properly safeguard our information systems.. Our operations are dependent on uninterrupted performance of our information systems. Failure to maintain reliable information systems, disruptions in our existing information systems or the implementation of new systems could cause disruptions in our business operations, including errors and delays in billings and collections, difficulty satisfying requirements under hospital contracts, disputes with patients and payors, violations of patient privacy and confidentiality requirements and other regulatory requirements, increased administrative expenses and other adverse consequences.. In addition, information security risks have generally increased in recent years because of new technologies and the increased activities of perpetrators of cyber-attacks resulting in the theft of protected health, business or financial information. Despite our layered security controls, experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our information systems and misappropriate or compromise sensitive patient or personnel information or proprietary or confidential information, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. They also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that disable our systems or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities. Outside parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees to take actions, including the release of confidential or sensitive information or to make fraudulent payments, through illegal electronic spamming, phishing or other tactics.. A failure in or breach of our information systems as a result of cyber-attacks or other tactics could disrupt our business, result in the release or misuse of PHI, confidential or proprietary business information or cause financial loss, damage our reputation, increase our administrative expenses, and expose us to additional risk of liability to federal or state governments or individuals. Although we believe that we have robust information security procedures and other safeguards in place, which are monitored and routinely tested internally and by external parties, as cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance our information security measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. Our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays or cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers and disruption of our operations, including, without limitation, our billing processes. In addition, breaches of our security measures and the unauthorized dissemination of patient healthcare and other sensitive information, proprietary or confidential information about us, our patients, clients or customers, or other third-parties, could expose such persons' private information to the risk of financial or medical identity theft or expose us or such persons to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. Additionally, under certain circumstances, we could be excluded temporarily or permanently from certain commercial or GHC Programs. Any of these disruptions or breaches of security could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our securities.. Our employees and business partners may not appropriately secure and protect confidential information in their possession.. Each of our employees and business partners is responsible for the security of the information in our systems or under our control and to ensure that private and financial information is kept confidential. Should an. 36. Table of Contents. employee or business partner not follow appropriate security measures, including those related to cyber threats or attacks or other tactics, as well as our privacy and security policies and procedures, the improper release of personal information, including PHI, or confidential business or financial information, or misappropriation of assets could result. The release of such information or misappropriation of assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our securities.. We may not be able to successfully recruit, onboard and retain qualified physicians and other clinicians and our compensation expense for existing clinicians may increase.. We are dependent upon our ability to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified physicians and other clinicians to service existing units at hospitals and our affiliated practices, service our existing customers' radiology read volumes and expand our business. We compete with many types of healthcare providers, including teaching, research and government institutions, hospitals and health systems and other practice and services groups, for the services of qualified clinicians. We may not be able to continue to recruit new clinicians or renew contracts with existing clinicians on acceptable terms. In addition, the recruiting and onboarding process for certain of our physicians and other clinicians can take several months, or longer, to complete due to various requirements, including state licensing and hospital credentialing. In addition, if the demand exceeds the supply for physicians and other clinicians either in general or in specific markets, we could experience an increase in compensation expense, including premium pay and agency labor costs. If we are unable to recruit new physicians, renew contracts on acceptable terms or onboard physicians and clinicians in a reasonable period of time, our ability to service existing or new hospital units, staff existing or new office-based practices and service our existing or new customer radiology read volumes could be adversely affected. In addition, if we experience a higher rate of growth in clinician compensation expense, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our securities could be materially, adversely affected.. A significant number of our affiliated physicians or other clinicians could leave our affiliated practices or our affiliated professional contractors may be unable to enforce the non-competition covenants of departed physicians.. Our affiliated professional contractors usually enter into employment agreements with our affiliated physicians. Certain of our employment agreements can be terminated without cause by any party upon prior written notice. In addition, substantially all of our affiliated physicians have agreed not to compete within a specified geographic area for a certain period after termination of employment. The law governing non-compete agreements and other forms of restrictive covenants varies from state to state. Although we believe that the non-competition and other restrictive covenants applicable to our affiliated physicians are reasonable in scope and duration and therefore enforceable under applicable state law, courts and arbitrators in some states may be reluctant to enforce non-compete agreements and restrictive covenants against physicians. In addition, we may incur significant legal fees to pursue enforcement of such agreements and restrictive covenants. Our affiliated physicians or other clinicians may leave our affiliated practices for a variety of reasons, including in order to provide services for other types of healthcare providers, such as teaching, research and government institutions, hospitals and health systems and other practice groups. If a substantial number of our affiliated physicians or other clinicians leave our affiliated practices, we could incur significant legal fees to pursue enforcement of certain covenants within employment agreements or if our affiliated professional contractors are unable to enforce the non-competition covenants in the employment agreements, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially, adversely affected.. Our treatment of certain physicians and other clinicians as independent contractors may be challenged by taxing authorities or other governmental agencies.. Certain of our affiliated physicians and other clinicians are treated as independent contractors, as opposed to employees, and, accordingly, we do not withhold federal income, state income, FICA, or other employment. 37. Table of Contents. related taxes from these individuals' compensation, make federal income, state income, FICA, or unemployment tax or other related payments, provide workers' compensation insurance or allow them to participate in the benefits and retirement programs available to our employees, or apply federal or state employee requirements. The classification of physicians and other clinicians as independent contractors depends on the facts and circumstances of the relationship. Additionally, under current federal tax law, a safe harbor from reclassification, and consequently retroactive taxes and penalties, is available if our current treatment is consistent with a long-standing practice of a significant segment of our industry and if we meet certain other requirements. In the past, there have been proposals to eliminate the safe harbor, and similar proposals may happen again in the future. If taxing authorities or other governmental agencies are successful in challenging our treatment of these physicians and other clinicians as independent contractors, and we do not prevail in demonstrating the applicability of the safe harbor to our operations or the safe harbor is eliminated, we may be required to pay retroactive employment taxes and penalties and reclassify such independent contractors to employees. In addition, such independent contractors could claim retroactive entitlements to various employee benefits. Any of these actions would increase our costs related to these physicians and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially, adversely affected.. We may be subject to medical malpractice and other lawsuits not covered by insurance.. Our business entails an inherent risk of claims of medical malpractice against our affiliated physicians and us. We may also be subject to other lawsuits which may involve large claims and significant defense costs. Although we currently maintain liability insurance coverage intended to cover professional liability and other claims, there can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover liabilities arising out of claims asserted against us where the outcomes of such claims are unfavorable to us. Generally, we self-insure our liabilities to pay retention amounts for professional liability matters through a wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary. Liabilities in excess of our insurance coverage, including coverage for professional liability and other claims, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our securities. See Item 1. Business - \"Other Legal Proceedings\" and -  \"Professional and General Liability Coverage.\". The reserves that we have established related to our professional liability losses are subject to inherent uncertainties and if a deficiency is determined this may lead to a reduction in our net earnings.. We have established reserves for losses and related expenses that represent estimates involving actuarial projections. These actuarial projections are developed at a given point in time and represent our expectations of the ultimate resolution and administration of costs of losses incurred with respect to professional liability risks for the amount of risk retained by us. Insurance reserves are inherently subject to uncertainty. Our reserve estimates are based on actuarial valuations using historical claims, demographic factors, industry trends, severity and exposure factors and other actuarial assumptions. The estimates of projected ultimate losses are developed at least annually. Our reserves could be significantly affected should current and future occurrences differ from historical claim trends and expectations. While claims are monitored closely when estimating reserves, the complexity of the claims and wide range of potential outcomes often hamper timely adjustments to the assumptions used in these estimates. Actual losses and related expenses may deviate, perhaps substantially, from the reserve estimates reflected in our financial statements. If our estimated reserves are determined to be inadequate, we will be required to increase reserves at the time the deficiency is determined. See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - \"Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates - Professional Liability Coverage.\". We may write-off intangible assets, such as goodwill.. The carrying value of our intangible assets, which consists primarily of goodwill related to our acquisitions, is subject to testing at least annually, and more frequently if impairment indicators exist. Under current accounting standards, goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis and we may be subject to impairment. 38. Table of Contents. losses as circumstances change after an acquisition. If we record an impairment loss related to our goodwill, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our securities.. We may not effectively manage our growth.. We have experienced significant growth in our business, including growth outside of our core physician specialties of neonatology and anesthesiology. Growth in the number of our employees and affiliated physicians in recent years places significant demands on our financial, operational and management resources. Continued growth may impair our ability to provide our services efficiently and to manage our employees adequately. While we are taking steps to manage our growth, our future results of operations could be materially, adversely affected if we are unable to do so effectively.. Our quarterly results will likely fluctuate from period to period.. We have historically experienced and expect to continue to experience quarterly fluctuations in net revenue and net income. For example, we typically experience negative cash flow from operations in the first quarter of each year, principally as a result of bonus payments to affiliated physicians as well as discretionary matching contributions for participants in our qualified contributory savings plans. In addition, a significant number of our employees and associated professional contractors (primarily affiliated physicians) exceed the level of taxable wages for social security contributions during the first and second quarters. As a result, we incur a significantly higher payroll tax burden and our net income is lower during those quarters. Moreover, a lower number of calendar days are present in the first and second quarters of the year as compared to the remainder of the year. Because we provide services in the NICU on a 24-hours-a-day basis, 365 days a year, any reduction in service days will have a corresponding reduction in net revenue. In addition, any reduction in office days in our office-based practices or business days in our anesthesia practices will also have a corresponding reduction in net revenue. We also have significant fixed operating costs, including costs for our affiliated physicians, and as a result, are highly dependent on patient volume and capacity utilization of our affiliated physicians to sustain profitability. Quarterly results may also be impacted by the timing of acquisitions and any fluctuation in patient volume. As a result, our results of operations for any quarter are not indicative of results of operations for any future period or full fiscal year.. Our current indebtedness and any future indebtedness could adversely affect us by reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of any variable rate debt. In addition, a certain portion of our interest expense may not be deductible.. As of December 31, 2017, our total indebtedness was $1.9 billion, of which $1.1 billion was exposed to variable interest rates. We also had $889.3 million of additional borrowing capacity under our revolving line of credit which was subject to a variable interest rate. Other debt we incur also could be variable rate debt. In addition, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 places certain limitations on the deductibility of interest expense at a percentage of taxable income. If interest rates increase, our variable rate debt will create higher debt service requirements, and if interest expense increases beyond a specified percentage of taxable income, a portion of that interest expense may not be deductible for income tax purposes, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.. We have limited restrictions on incurring substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Our current indebtedness and any future increases in leverage could have adverse consequences on us, including:. <U+0095>    a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations will be required to service interest and principal payments on our debt and will not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions, dividends or general corporate or other purposes;. <U+0095>    our ability to obtain additional financing in the future may be impaired;. 39. Table of Contents. <U+0095>    we may be more highly leveraged than our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage;. <U+0095>    our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry may be limited; and. <U+0095>    we may be more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business, our industry or the economy in general.. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, business, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available under our revolving line of credit in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our debt, including our revolving line of credit and senior notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all.. Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, and other factors. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service requirements, we may be forced to reduce or delay acquisitions or other investments, or to seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in other defaults, disrupt our operations and cause a reduction of our credit rating, which could further harm our ability to finance or refinance our obligations and business operations. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations.. The value of our common stock may fluctuate.. There has been significant volatility in the market price of securities of healthcare companies generally that we believe in many cases has been unrelated to operating performance. In addition, we believe that certain factors, such as actual and potential legislative and regulatory developments, including announced regulatory investigations, quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated results of operations, lower revenue or earnings than those anticipated by securities analysts, not meeting publicly announced expectations, and general economic and financial market conditions, could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially.. We may not be able to collect reimbursements for our services from third-party payors.. A significant portion of our net revenue is derived from reimbursements from various third-party payors, including GHC Programs, private insurance plans and managed care plans, for services provided by our affiliated professional contractors. We are responsible for submitting reimbursement requests to these payors and collecting the reimbursements, and we assume the financial risks relating to uncollectible and delayed reimbursements. In the current healthcare environment, payors continue their efforts to control expenditures for healthcare, including revisions to coverage and reimbursement policies. Due to the nature of our business and our participation in government-funded and private reimbursement programs, we are involved from time to time in inquiries, reviews, audits and investigations by governmental agencies and private payors of our business practices, including assessments of our compliance with coding, billing and documentation requirements. We. 40. Table of Contents. may be required to repay these agencies or private payors if a finding is made that we were incorrectly reimbursed, or we may become involved in disputes with payors and could be subjected to pre-payment and post-payment reviews, which can be time-consuming and result in non-payment or delayed payment for the services we provide. We may also experience difficulties in collecting reimbursements because third-party payors may seek to reduce or delay reimbursements to which we are entitled for services that our affiliated physicians have provided or they experience administrative issues that result in a delay in reimbursements. In addition, GHC Programs may deny our application to become a participating provider that could cause us to not be able to provide services to patients or prohibit us from billing for such services. If we are not reimbursed fully and in a timely manner for such services or there is a finding that we were incorrectly reimbursed, our revenue, cash flows and financial condition could be materially, adversely affected.. In addition, adverse economic conditions could affect the timeliness and amounts received from our third-party and government payors which would impact our short-term liquidity needs.. Hospitals or other customers may terminate their agreements with us, our physicians may lose the ability to provide services in hospitals or administrative fees paid to us by hospitals may be reduced.. Our net revenue is derived primarily from fee-for-service billings for patient care and other services provided by our affiliated physicians and from administrative fees paid to us by hospitals. See Item 1. Business - \"Relationships with Our Partners - Hospitals.\" Our hospital partners or other customers may cancel or not renew their contracts with us, may reduce or eliminate our administrative fees in the future, or refuse to pay us our administrative fees if we fail to honor the terms of our agreement or fail to meet certain performance metrics under those agreements. Further, consolidation of hospitals, health care systems or other customers could adversely affect our ability to negotiate with these entities. Adverse economic conditions, including decreased federal and state funding to hospitals, could influence future actions of our hospital partners or other customers. To the extent that our arrangements with our hospital partners or other customers are canceled, or are not renewed or replaced with other arrangements having at least as favorable terms, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, to the extent our affiliated physicians lose their privileges in hospitals or hospitals enter into arrangements with or employ other physicians, including our existing affiliated physicians, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially, adversely affected.. Hospitals could limit our ability to use our management information systems in our units by requiring us to use their own management information systems.. Our management information systems, including BabySteps and the Quantum Clinical Navigation System are used to support our day-to-day operations and ongoing clinical research and business analysis. If a hospital prohibits us from using our own management information systems, it may interrupt the efficient operation of our information systems which, in turn, may limit our ability to operate important aspects of our business, including billing and reimbursement as well as research and education initiatives. This inability to use our management information systems at hospital locations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our industry is already competitive and could become more competitive.. The healthcare industry is highly competitive and subject to continual changes in the methods by which services are provided and the manner in which healthcare providers are selected and compensated. Because our operations consist primarily of physician services provided within hospital-based units, we compete with other healthcare services companies and physician groups for contracts with hospitals to provide our services to patients. We also face competition from hospitals themselves to provide our services. In addition, we face competition from other services companies in our teleradiology business and management services organization.. 41. Table of Contents. Further, consolidation within the healthcare industry could strengthen certain competitors that provide services to hospitals and other customers. Companies in other healthcare industry segments, some of which have greater financial and other resources than ours, may become competitors in providing neonatal, anesthesia, maternal-fetal, radiology or other pediatric subspecialty care. Additionally, we face competition from healthcare-focused and other private equity firms. We may not be able to continue to compete effectively in this industry, additional competitors may enter metropolitan areas where we operate, and this increased competition may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our securities.. Unfavorable changes or conditions could occur in the states where our operations are concentrated.. A majority of our net revenue in 2017 was generated by our operations in five states. In particular, Texas accounted for approximately 19% of our net revenue in 2017. See Item 1. Business - \"Geographic Coverage.\" Adverse changes or conditions affecting these particular states, such as healthcare reforms, changes in laws and regulations, reduced Medicaid eligibility or reimbursements and government investigations, economic conditions, weather conditions, and natural disasters may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our securities.. We are dependent upon our key management personnel for our future success.. Our success depends to a significant extent on the continued contributions of our key management personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer, Roger J. Medel, M.D., for the management of our business and implementation of our business strategy. The loss of Dr. Medel or other key management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our securities.. We are subject to litigation risks.. From time to time, we are involved in various litigation matters and claims, including regulatory proceedings, administrative proceedings, governmental investigations, and contract disputes, as they relate to our services and business. We may face potential claims or liability for, among other things, breach of contract, defamation, libel, fraud or negligence. Our contracts with hospitals generally require us to indemnify them and their affiliates for losses resulting from the negligence of our affiliated physicians and other clinicians. We may also face employment-related litigation, including claims of age discrimination, sexual harassment, gender discrimination, immigration violations, or other local, state, and federal labor law violations. Because of the uncertain nature of litigation and insurance coverage decisions, the outcome of such actions and proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty and an unfavorable resolution of one or more of them could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our securities. In addition, legal fees and costs associated with prosecuting and defending litigation matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and the trading price of our securities.. Provisions of our articles and bylaws could deter takeover attempts, but our business could be negatively affected as a result of shareholder activism.. Our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended, authorize our board of directors to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock and to determine the powers, preferences and rights of these shares without shareholder approval. This preferred stock could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to those of the holders of common stock. The issuance of preferred stock under some circumstances could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control. In addition, provisions in our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended, and Bylaws, including those relating to calling shareholder meetings, taking action by written consent and other matters, could render it more. 42. Table of Contents. difficult or discourage an attempt to obtain control of MEDNAX through a proxy contest or consent solicitation, however, there is no assurance that these provisions would have such an effect. These provisions could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay in the future for our shares of common stock. Notwithstanding these provisions, we could become the target of activist shareholders who acquire ownership positions in our common stock and seek to influence our company. Responding to actions by activist shareholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our business and divert the attention of our board of directors, management and employees. Additionally, perceived uncertainties as to our future direction as a result of shareholder activism may lead to the perception of a change in the direction of our business or other instability, which may be exploited by our competitors, cause concern to our current or potential customers and acquisition candidates, and make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified personnel, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows and the trading prices of our securities. In addition, the trading prices of our securities may experience periods of increased volatility as a result of shareholder activism."
