[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our securities involves a variety of risks and uncertainties, known and unknown, including, among others, those discussed below. Each of the following risks should be carefully considered, together with all the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes and in our other filings with the SEC. Furthermore, additional risks and uncertainty not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business.  Our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flow and prospects could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks or uncertainties.. 13. Table of Contents. Risks Relating to the Company. We operate in a highly competitive industry and we may be unable to compete effectively.. We compete in both the therapeutic and diagnostic medical markets in more than 150 countries throughout the world. These markets are characterized by rapid change resulting from technological advances and scientific discoveries. In the product lines in which we compete, we face a range of competitors from large companies with multiple business lines to small, specialized manufacturers that offer a limited selection of niche products. Development by other companies of new or improved products, processes, technologies, or the introduction of reprocessed products or generic versions when our proprietary products lose their patent protection may make our existing or planned products less competitive. In addition, we face competition from providers of alternative medical therapies, such as pharmaceutical companies.. We believe our ability to compete depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including:. • product performance and reliability,. • product technology and innovation,. • product quality and safety,. • breadth of product lines,. • product support services,. • customer support,. • cost-effectiveness and price, and. • reimbursement approval from health care insurance providers.. Competition may increase as additional companies enter our markets or modify their existing products to compete directly with ours. In addition, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations also may conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for discovery, research, clinical development and marketing of products similar to ours. These companies and institutions compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, as well as in acquiring necessary product technologies. From time to time we have lost, and may in the future lose, market share in connection with product problems, physician advisories, safety alerts and publications about our products, which highlights the importance of product quality, product efficacy and quality systems to our business. In the current environment of managed care, consolidation among health care providers, increased competition, and declining reimbursement rates, we have been increasingly required to compete on the basis of price. Further, our continued growth and success depend on our ability to develop, acquire and market new and differentiated products, technologies and intellectual property, and as a result we also face competition for marketing, distribution, and collaborative development agreements, establishing relationships with academic and research institutions and licenses to intellectual property. In order to continue to compete effectively, we must continue to create, invest in or acquire advanced technology, incorporate this technology into our proprietary products, obtain regulatory approvals in a timely manner, and manufacture and successfully market our products. Given these factors, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete effectively or continue our level of success.. Reduction or interruption in supply or other manufacturing difficulties may adversely affect our manufacturing operations and related product sales.. The manufacture of our products requires the timely delivery of sufficient amount of quality components and materials and is highly exacting and complex, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. We manufacture the majority of our products at numerous manufacturing facilities worldwide. We purchase many of the components and raw materials used in manufacturing these products from numerous suppliers in various countries. We have generally been able to obtain adequate supplies of such raw materials and components. However, for reasons of quality assurance, cost effectiveness, or availability, certain components and raw materials used in our products are obtained from a sole supplier. Although we work closely with our suppliers to try to ensure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability, the supply of these components and raw materials may be interrupted or insufficient. In addition, due to the stringent regulations and requirements of regulatory agencies, including the U.S. FDA, regarding the manufacture of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources. Furthermore, the prices of commodities and other materials used in our products, which are often volatile and outside of our control, could adversely impact our supply. We use resins, other petroleum-based materials and pulp as raw materials in some of our products, and the prices of oil and gas also significantly affect our costs for freight and utilities. A reduction or interruption in supply, and an inability to develop alternative sources for such supply, could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in a timely or cost-effective manner and could result in lost sales.. Other disruptions in the manufacturing process or product sales and fulfillment systems for any reason, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, defective raw materials, natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes or wildfires, and other environmental factors, could lead to launch delays, product shortage, unanticipated costs, lost revenues and damage to our reputation. For example, in June 2017 we experienced a global information technology systems. 14. Table of Contents. interruption that affected our customer ordering, distribution, and manufacturing processes. Furthermore, any failure to identify and address manufacturing problems prior to the release of products to our customers could result in quality or safety issues.. In addition, several of our key products are manufactured at a particular manufacturing facility, with limited alternate facilities. If an event occurs that results in damage to one or more of such facilities, such as the damage caused by Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico in September 2017, we may be unable to manufacture the relevant products at the previous levels or at all. Because of the time required to approve and license a manufacturing facility, a third-party manufacturer may not be available on a timely basis to replace production capacity in the event manufacturing capacity is lost.. We are subject to costly and complex laws and governmental regulations and any adverse regulatory action may materially adversely affect our financial condition and business operations.. Our medical devices and technologies, as well as our business activities, are subject to a complex set of regulations and rigorous enforcement, including by the U.S. FDA, U.S. Department of Justice, Health and Human Services-Office of the Inspector General, and numerous other federal, state, and non-U.S. governmental authorities. To varying degrees, each of these agencies requires us to comply with laws and regulations governing the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing and distribution of our products. As a part of the regulatory process of obtaining marketing clearance for new products and new indications for existing products, we conduct and participate in numerous clinical trials with a variety of study designs, patient populations, and trial endpoints. Unfavorable or inconsistent clinical data from existing or future clinical trials or the market's or U.S. FDA's perception of this clinical data, may adversely impact our ability to obtain product approvals, our position in, and share of, the markets in which we participate, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain or maintain marketing clearance for our new products or enhancements or modifications to existing products, and the failure to maintain approvals or obtain approval or clearance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Even if we are able to obtain approval or clearance, it may:. • take a significant amount of time,. • require the expenditure of substantial resources,. • involve stringent clinical and pre-clinical testing, as well as increased post-market surveillance,. • involve modifications, repairs or replacements of our products, and. • limit the proposed uses of our products.. Both before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities under U.S. FDA and other applicable non-U.S. government agency regulations. For instance, many of our facilities and procedures and those of our suppliers are also subject to periodic inspections by the U.S. FDA to determine compliance with applicable regulations. The results of these inspections can include inspectional observations on U.S. FDA's Form-483, warning letters, or other forms of enforcement. If the U.S. FDA were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our medical products are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the U.S. FDA could ban such medical products, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical products, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of such products, refuse to grant pending pre-market approval applications or require certificates of non-U.S governments for exports, and/or require us to notify health professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. The U.S. FDA and other non-U.S. government agencies may also assess civil or criminal penalties against us, our officers or employees and impose operating restrictions on a company-wide basis. The U.S. FDA may also recommend prosecution to the U.S. Department of Justice. Any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively marketing and selling our products and limit our ability to obtain future pre-market clearances or approvals, and could result in a substantial modification to our business practices and operations. Furthermore, we occasionally receive subpoenas or other requests for information from state and federal governmental agencies, and while these investigations typically relate primarily to financial arrangements with health care providers, regulatory compliance and product promotional practices, we cannot predict the timing, outcome or impact of any such investigations. Any adverse outcome in one or more of these investigations could include the commencement of civil and/or criminal proceedings, substantial fines, penalties, and/or administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs and/or entry into Corporate Integrity Agreements (CIAs) with governmental agencies. In addition, resolution of any of these matters could involve the imposition of additional, costly compliance obligations. These potential consequences, as well as any adverse outcome from government investigations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.. In addition, the U.S. FDA has taken the position that device manufacturers are prohibited from promoting their products other than for the uses and indications set forth in the approved product labeling, and any failure to comply could subject us to significant civil or criminal exposure, administrative obligations and costs, and/or other potential penalties from, and/or agreements with, the federal government.. Governmental regulations outside the U.S. have, and may continue to, become increasingly stringent and common. In the European Union, for example, a new Medical Device Regulation was published in 2017 which, when it enters into full force in 2020, will. 15. Table of Contents. include significant additional premarket and post-market requirements. Penalties for regulatory non-compliance could be severe, including fines and revocation or suspension of a company's business license, mandatory price reductions and criminal sanctions. Future laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on us.. Our failure to comply with laws and regulations relating to reimbursement of health care goods and services may subject us to penalties and adversely impact our reputation, business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our devices, products and therapies are purchased principally by hospitals or physicians that typically bill various third-party payers, such as governmental programs (e.g., Medicare, Medicaid and comparable non-U.S. programs), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for the healthcare services provided to their patients. The ability of our customers to obtain appropriate reimbursement for products and services from third-party payers is critical because it affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. As a result, our devices, products and therapies are subject to regulation regarding quality and cost by HHS, including the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), as well as comparable state and non-U.S. agencies responsible for reimbursement and regulation of health care goods and services, including laws and regulations related to kickbacks, false claims, self-referrals and health care fraud. Many states have similar laws that apply to reimbursement by state Medicaid and other funded programs as well as in some cases to all payers. In certain circumstances, insurance companies can attempt to bring a private cause of action against a manufacturer for causing a false claim to be filed under the federal Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act. In addition, as a manufacturer of U.S. FDA-approved devices reimbursable by federal healthcare programs, we are subject to the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which requires us to annually report certain payments and other transfers of value we make to U.S.-licensed physicians or U.S. teaching hospitals. Any failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us or our officers and employees to criminal and civil financial penalties.. We are also subject to risks relating to changes in government and private medical reimbursement programs and policies, and changes in legal regulatory requirements in the U.S. and around the world. Implementation of further legislative or administrative reforms to these reimbursement systems, or adverse decisions relating to coverage of or reimbursement for our products by administrators of these systems, could have an impact on the acceptance of and demand for our products and the prices that our customers are willing to pay for them.. We are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to our rights or the rights of others may result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and other proprietary rights against others.. We are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights and rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, and non-disclosure and non-competition agreements to protect our proprietary intellectual property. We also operate in an industry characterized by extensive patent litigation. Patent litigation can result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could prevent our manufacture and sale of affected products or require us to pay significant royalties in order to continue to manufacture or sell affected products. At any given time, we are generally involved as both a plaintiff and a defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time. While it is not possible to predict the outcome of patent litigation, it is possible that the results of such litigation could require us to pay significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and proprietary rights against others, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.. While we intend to defend against any threats to our intellectual property, our patents, trade secrets or other agreements may not adequately protect our intellectual property. Further, pending patent applications may not result in patents being issued to us, patents issued to or licensed by us may be challenged or circumvented by competitors and such patents may be found invalid, unenforceable or insufficiently broad to protect our technology or provide us with any competitive advantage. Third parties could obtain patents that may require us to negotiate licenses to conduct our business, and these licenses may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. We also rely on non-disclosure and non-competition agreements with certain employees, consultants and other parties to protect, in part, trade secrets and other proprietary rights. We cannot be certain that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, or that third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or proprietary knowledge.. In addition, the laws of certain countries in which we market some of our products do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S., which could make it easier for competitors to capture market position in those countries. Competitors also may harm our sales by designing products that mirror the capabilities of our products or technology without infringing our intellectual property rights. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property in these countries, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.. 16. Table of Contents. Quality problems and product liability claims could lead to recalls or safety alerts, reputational harm, adverse verdicts or costly settlements, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Quality is extremely important to us and our customers due to the serious and costly consequences of product failure, and our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture, and marketing of medical devices. In addition, many of our products are often used in intensive care settings with seriously ill patients and some of the medical devices we manufacture and sell are designed to be implanted in the human body for long periods of time or indefinitely. Component failures, manufacturing defects, design flaws, off-label use, or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information with respect to our products could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, a patient. These problems could lead to recall of, or issuance of a safety alert relating to, our products, and could result in product liability claims and lawsuits, including class actions, which could ultimately result, in certain cases, in the removal from the body of such products and claims regarding costs associated therewith. Due to the strong name recognition of the Medtronic and Covidien brands, a material adverse event involving one of our products could result in reduced market acceptance and demand for all products within that brand, and could harm our reputation and ability to market products in the future.. Strong product quality is critical to the success of our goods and services. If we fail to meet these standards and our products are the subject of recalls or safety alerts, our reputation could be damaged, we could lose customers and our revenue and results of operations could decline. Our success also can depend on our ability to manufacture to exact specification precision-engineered components, subassemblies and finished devices from multiple materials. If our components fail to meet these standards or fail to adapt to evolving standards, our reputation, competitive advantage and market share could be harmed. In certain situations, we may undertake a voluntary recall of products or temporarily shut down production lines based on performance relative to our own internal safety and quality monitoring and testing data.. Any of the foregoing problems, including future product liability claims or recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our research and development efforts rely upon investments and investment collaborations, and we cannot guarantee that any previous or future investments or investment collaborations will be successful.. Our mission is to provide a broad range of therapies to restore patients to fuller, healthier lives, which requires a wide variety of technologies, products and capabilities. The rapid pace of technological development in the medical industry and the specialized expertise required in different areas of medicine make it difficult for one company alone to develop a broad portfolio of technological solutions. In addition to internally generated growth through our research and development efforts, historically we have relied, and expect to continue to rely, upon investments and investment collaborations to provide us access to new technologies both in areas served by our existing businesses as well as in new areas.. We expect to make future investments where we believe that we can stimulate the development or acquisition of new technologies and products to further our strategic objectives and strengthen our existing businesses. Investments and investment collaborations in and with medical technology companies are inherently risky, and we cannot guarantee that any of our previous or future investments or investment collaborations will be successful or will not materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Health care policy changes may have a material adverse effect on us.. In response to perceived increases in health care costs in recent years, there have been and continue to be proposals by the federal government, state governments, regulators and third-party payers to control these costs and, more generally, to reform the health care system, including U.S. health care reform legislation. Certain of these proposals could, among other things, limit the prices we are able to charge for our products or the amounts of reimbursement available for our products and could limit the acceptance and availability of our products. The adoption of some or all of these proposals could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our insurance program may not be adequate to cover future losses.. We have elected to self-insure most of our insurable risks across the Company, and we made this decision based on cost and availability factors in the insurance marketplace. We manage and maintain a portion of our self-insured program through a wholly-owned captive insurance company. We continue to maintain a directors and officers liability insurance policy with a third-party insurer that provides coverage for the directors and officers of the Company. We continue to monitor the insurance marketplace to evaluate the value of obtaining insurance coverage for other categories of losses in the future. Although we believe, based on historical loss trends, that our self-insurance program accruals and our existing insurance coverage will be adequate to cover future losses, historical trends may not be indicative of future losses. The absence of third-party insurance coverage for other categories of losses increases our exposure to unanticipated claims and these losses could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. 17. Table of Contents. If we experience decreasing prices for our goods and services and we are unable to reduce our expenses, there may be a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, decreasing prices for our goods and services due to pricing pressure from managed care organizations and other third-party payers on our customers, increased market power of our customers as the medical device industry consolidates and increased competition among medical engineering and manufacturing services providers. If the prices for our goods and services decrease and we are unable to reduce our expenses, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will be adversely affected.. We are subject to a variety of risks associated with global operations that could adversely affect our profitability and operating results.. We develop, manufacture, distribute and sell our products globally. Operations in countries outside of the U.S. are accompanied by certain risks. We intend to continue to expand our operations and to pursue growth opportunities outside the U.S., especially in emerging markets, which could expose us to additional and greater risks. Our profitability and global operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including:. • fluctuations in currency exchange rates,. • healthcare reform legislation,. • the need to comply with different regulatory regimes worldwide that are subject to change and that could restrict our ability to manufacture and sell our products,. • local product preferences and product requirements,. • longer-term receivables than are typical in the U.S.,. • trade protection measures, tariffs and other border taxes, and import or export licensing requirements,. • less intellectual property protection in some countries outside the U.S. than exists in the U.S.,. • different labor regulations and workforce instability,. • political and economic instability,. • the expiration and non-renewal of foreign tax rulings and/or grants,. • potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws, and. • economic instability and inflation, recession or interest rate fluctuations.. On June 23, 2016, the U.K. held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the E.U., commonly referred to as \"Brexit\".  As a result of the referendum, it is expected that the British government will begin negotiating the terms of the U.K.'s future relationship with the E.U. Although it is unknown what those terms will be, it is possible that there will be greater restrictions on imports and exports between the U.K. and E.U. countries and increased regulatory complexities. Similarly, from time to time proposals are made in the U.S. to significantly change existing trade agreements and relationships between the U.S. and other countries, although we cannot currently predict whether or how these changes will be implemented. Changes to trade policy may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. In addition, a significant amount of our trade receivables are with national health care systems in many countries. Repayment of these receivables is dependent upon the political and financial stability of those countries. In light of these global economic fluctuations, we continue to monitor the creditworthiness of customers. Failure to receive payment of all or a significant portion of these receivables could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Finally, changes in currency exchange rates may impact the reported value of our revenues, expenses, and cash flows. We cannot predict changes in currency exchange rates, the impact of exchange rate changes, nor the degree to which we will be able to manage the impact of currency exchange rate changes.. The failure to comply with anti-bribery laws could materially adversely affect our business and result in civil and/or criminal sanctions.. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and similar anti-bribery laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Because of the predominance of government-administered healthcare systems in many jurisdictions around the world, many of our customer relationships outside of the U.S. are with governmental entities and are therefore potentially subject to such laws. We also participate in public-private partnerships and other commercial and policy arrangements with governments around the globe.. Global enforcement of anti-corruption laws has increased substantially in recent years, with more frequent voluntary self-disclosures by companies, aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by U.S. and non-U.S. governmental agencies, and assessment of significant fines and penalties against companies and individuals. Our international operations create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees, consultants, sales agents, or distributors. It is our policy. 18. Table of Contents. to implement safeguards to educate our employees and agents on these legal requirements and prohibit improper practices. However, existing safeguards and any future improvements may not always be effective, and our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors may engage in conduct for which we could be held responsible. In addition, the government may seek to hold us liable for FCPA violations committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire. Any alleged or actual violations of these regulations may subject us to government scrutiny, criminal or civil sanctions and other liabilities, including exclusion from government contracting, and could disrupt our business, adversely affect our reputation and result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Laws and regulations governing international business operations could adversely impact our business.. The U.S. Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC), and the Bureau of Industry and Security at the U.S. Department of Commerce (BIS), administer certain laws and regulations that restrict U.S. persons and, in some instances, non-U.S. persons, in conducting activities, transacting business with or making investments in certain countries, governments, entities and individuals subject to U.S. economic sanctions. Our international operations subject us to these laws and regulations, which are complex, restrict our business dealings with certain countries and individuals, and are constantly changing. Further restrictions may be enacted, amended, enforced or interpreted in a manner that materially impacts our operations.. From time to time, certain of our subsidiaries have limited business dealings in countries subject to comprehensive sanctions, including Iran, Sudan, Syria, Cuba and the region of Crimea. Certain of our subsidiaries sell medical devices, and may provide related services, to distributors and other purchasing bodies in such countries. These business dealings represent an insignificant amount of our consolidated revenues and income, but expose us to a heightened risk of violating applicable sanctions regulations. Violations of these regulations are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from government contracts and revocations or restrictions of licenses, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. We have established policies and procedures designed to assist with our compliance with such laws and regulations. However, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will prevent us from violating these regulations in every transaction in which we may engage, and such a violation could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Consolidation in the health care industry could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations.. Many health care industry companies, including health care systems, distributors, manufacturers, providers, and insurers, are consolidating or have formed strategic alliances. As the health care industry consolidates, competition to provide goods and services to industry participants will become more intense. Further, this consolidation creates larger enterprises with greater negotiating power, which they can use to negotiate price concessions. If we must reduce our prices because of industry consolidation, or if we lose customers as a result of consolidation, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.. Health care industry cost-containment measures could result in reduced sales of our medical devices and medical device components.. Most of our customers, and the health care providers to whom our customers supply medical devices, rely on third-party payers, including government programs and private health insurance plans, to reimburse some or all of the cost of the procedures in which medical devices that incorporate components we manufacture or assemble are used. The continuing efforts of governmental authorities, insurance companies and other payers of health care costs to contain or reduce these costs could lead to patients being unable to obtain approval for payment from these third-party payers. If third-party payer payment approval cannot be obtained by patients, sales of finished medical devices that include our components may decline significantly and our customers may reduce or eliminate purchases of our components. The cost-containment measures that health care providers are instituting, both in the U.S. and outside of the U.S., could harm our ability to operate profitably. For example, managed care organizations have successfully negotiated volume discounts for pharmaceuticals, and GPOs and IDNs have also concentrated purchasing decisions for some customers, which has led to downward pricing pressure for medical device companies, including us.. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations and the risk of environmental liabilities, violations and litigation.. We are subject to numerous U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. environmental, health and safety laws and regulations concerning, among other things, the health and safety of our employees, the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials, emissions or discharges of substances into the environment, investigation and remediation of hazardous substances or materials at various sites, chemical constituents in medical products and end-of-life disposal and take-back programs for medical devices. Our operations involve the use of substances subject to these laws and regulations, primarily those used in manufacturing and sterilization processes. If we violate these environmental laws and regulations, we could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned. Furthermore, environmental laws outside of the U.S. are becoming more stringent, resulting in increased costs and compliance burdens.. 19. Table of Contents. In addition, certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous substances or materials at their properties or at properties which they have disposed of hazardous substances. In addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. The ultimate cost of site cleanup and timing of future cash outflows is difficult to predict, given the uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations, and alternative cleanup methods.. The costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations, or liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances, may exceed our estimates, or have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.. The continuing development of many of our products depends upon us maintaining strong relationships with health care professionals.. If we fail to maintain our working relationships with health care professionals, many of our products may not be developed and marketed in line with the needs and expectations of the professionals who use and support our products, which could cause a decline in our earnings and profitability. The research, development, marketing and sales of many of our new and improved products depends on our maintaining working relationships with health care professionals. We rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience regarding the development, marketing and sale of our products. Physicians assist us as researchers, marketing and product consultants, inventors and public speakers. If we are unable to maintain strong relationships with these professionals, the development and marketing of our products could suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We rely on the proper function, security and availability of our information technology systems and data to operate our business, and a breach, cyber-attack or other disruption to these systems or data could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, reputation or competitive position.. We are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology systems to operate our business, including to process, transmit and store sensitive data, and many of our products and services include integrated software and information technology that collects data regarding patients or connects to our systems. Like other large multi-national corporations, we could experience, and in the past have experienced, attempted or actual interference with the integrity of, and interruptions in, our technology systems, as well as data breaches, such as cyber-attacks, malicious intrusions, breakdowns, interference with the integrity of our products and data or other significant disruptions. Furthermore, we rely on third-party vendors to supply and/or support certain aspects of our information technology systems. These third-party systems could also become vulnerable to cyber-attack, malicious intrusions, breakdowns, interference or other significant disruptions, and may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could result in system disruption or compromise the information security of our own systems. In addition, we continue to grow in part through new business acquisitions and, as a result, may face risks associated with defects and vulnerabilities in their systems, or difficulties or other breakdowns or disruptions in connection with the integration of the acquisitions into our information technology systems.. Our worldwide operations mean that we are subject to laws and regulations, including data protection and cybersecurity laws and regulations, in many jurisdictions. The variety of U.S. and international privacy and cybersecurity laws and regulations impacting our operations are described in \"Item 1. Business\" - Other Factors Impacting Our Operations - Data Privacy and Cybersecurity Laws and Regulations. For example, in the E.U. the Data Protection Directive requires us to manage individually identifiable information in the E.U., and the new General Data Protection Regulation may impose fines of up to four percent of our global revenue in the event of violations occurring after its implementation in May 2018. Furthermore, there has been a developing trend of civil lawsuits and class actions relating to breaches of consumer data held by large companies or incidents arising from other cyber-attacks. Any data security breaches, cyber-attacks, malicious intrusions or significant disruptions could result in actions by regulatory bodies and/or civil litigation, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, reputation or competitive position.. In addition, our information technology systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect, and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving legal and regulatory standards, the increasing need to protect patient and customer information, changes in the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to data and information systems, and the information technology needs associated with our changing products and services. There can be no assurance that our process of consolidating, protecting, upgrading and expanding our systems and capabilities, continuing to build security into the design of our products, and developing new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology will be successful or that additional systems issues will not arise in the future.. 20. Table of Contents. If our information technology systems, products or services or sensitive data are compromised, patients or employees could be exposed to financial or medical identity theft or suffer a loss of product functionality, and we could lose existing customers, have difficulty attracting new customers, have difficulty preventing, detecting, and controlling fraud, be exposed to the loss or misuse of confidential information, have disputes with customers, physicians, and other health care professionals, suffer regulatory sanctions or penalties under federal laws, state laws, or the laws of other jurisdictions, experience increases in operating expenses or an impairment in our ability to conduct our operations, incur expenses or lose revenues as a result of a data privacy breach, product failure, information technology outages or disruptions, or suffer other adverse consequences including lawsuits or other legal action and damage to our reputation.. Our substantial leverage and debt service obligations could adversely affect our business.. At April 27, 2018, we had approximately $2.1 billion of current debt obligations and $23.7 billion of long-term debt outstanding. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our substantial indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including:. • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations,. • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, regulatory and industry conditions, and placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged,. • limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate,. • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes, and. • exposing us to greater interest rate risk since the interest rate on borrowings under our floating rate notes and revolving credit facility is variable.. Our debt service obligations require us to use a portion of our operating cash flow to pay interest and principal on indebtedness instead of for other corporate purposes, including funding future expansion of our business, acquisitions, and ongoing capital expenditures, which could impede our growth. If our operating cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to service our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt financing or restructure our debt, which could harm our long-term business prospects. Our failure to comply with the terms of our revolving credit facility and other indebtedness could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt.. Failure to integrate acquired businesses into our operations successfully could adversely affect our business.. As part of our strategy to develop and identify new products and technologies, we have made several significant acquisitions in recent years, and may make additional acquisitions in the future. Our integration of the operations of acquired businesses requires significant efforts, including the coordination of information technologies, research and development, sales and marketing, operations, manufacturing, and finance. These efforts result in additional expenses and involve significant amounts of management's time that cannot then be dedicated to other projects. Our failure to manage and coordinate the growth of acquired companies successfully could also have an adverse impact on our business. In addition, we cannot be certain that the businesses we acquire will become profitable or remain so. Factors that will affect the success of our acquisitions include:. • the presence or absence of adequate internal controls and/or significant fraud in the financial systems of acquired companies,. • our ability or inability to integrate information technology systems of acquired companies in a secure and reliable manner,. • adverse developments arising out of investigations by governmental entities of the business practices of acquired companies, including potential FCPA liability,. • any decrease in customer loyalty and product orders caused by dissatisfaction with the combined companies' product lines and sales and marketing practices, including price increases,. • our ability to retain key employees, and. • the ability to achieve synergies among acquired companies, such as increasing sales of the integrated company's products, achieving cost savings, and effectively combining technologies to develop new products.. We also could experience negative effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows from acquisition-related charges, amortization of intangible assets and asset impairment charges. These effects, individually or in the aggregate, could cause a deterioration of our credit rating and result in increased borrowing costs and interest expense.. 21. Table of Contents. Changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We are subject to income taxes, as well as non-income based taxes, in the U.S., Ireland, and various other jurisdictions in which we operate. The tax laws in the U.S., Ireland and other countries in which we and our affiliates do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could materially adversely affect our business and our effective tax rate. For example, on December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted comprehensive tax legislation, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"), which resulted in a significant charge to tax expense during our quarter ending January 2018 associated with the U.S. taxation of accumulated foreign earnings as well as the requirement to revalue U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting from the reduction in the U.S. corporate tax rate.. Certain elements of the Tax Act impact fiscal year 2018 while other portions of the legislation are not effective until future fiscal years. The U.S. Treasury has issued additional guidance subsequent to the enactment of the Tax Act, and we expect ongoing guidance to be provided which could change the impact on our tax reserves. We made reasonable estimates of the effect of the Tax Act and recorded provisional amounts in the financial statements for fiscal year 2018. Additional guidance, as well as future changes to these rules, may result in adjustments to these estimates which could materially affect our financial results.. In 2013, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) published an action plan called Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) with a view to tackling perceived tax abuse and inconsistency between taxing authorities and their approach to International tax matters. The final BEPS Action report was published in October 2015 and subsequently many taxing authorities have adopted the guidelines provided within their local laws. The EU expanded upon these guidelines with Anti-Tax Avoidance Directives (ATAD) to be applied by its member states. We continue to monitor any and all changes to local country legislation resulting from this guidance. One specific change is a requirement for increased disclosures of financial information on a local and global basis. This information could lead to disagreements between jurisdictions associated with the proper allocation of profits between such jurisdictions.. We are subject to ongoing tax audits in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. We have recorded reserves for potential payments of tax to various tax authorities related to uncertain tax positions. However, the calculation of such tax liabilities involves the application of complex tax regulations in many jurisdictions. Therefore, any dispute with a tax authority may result in a payment that is significantly different from current estimates. If payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be less than the recorded amounts, the reversal of the liabilities generally would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. If our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the amount for which it is ultimately liable, we would incur additional charges, and such charges could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. The Medtronic, Inc. tax court proceeding outcome could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition.. In March 2009, the IRS issued its audit report for Medtronic Inc. for fiscal years 2005 and 2006. Medtronic, Inc. reached agreements with the IRS on some, but not all matters related to these fiscal years. The remaining unresolved issue for fiscal years 2005 and 2006 relates to the allocation of income between Medtronic, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiary operating in Puerto Rico, which is one of our key manufacturing sites. An adverse outcome in this matter could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  See Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements in \"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Future potential changes to the U.S. tax laws could result in us being treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes, and the IRS may not agree with the conclusion that we should be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S federal income tax purposes.. Because Medtronic plc is organized under the laws of Ireland, we would generally be classified as a foreign corporation under the general rule that a corporation is considered tax resident in the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Even so, the IRS may assert that we should be treated as a U.S. corporation (and, therefore, a U.S. tax resident) for U.S. federal income tax purposes pursuant to Section 7874 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code).. Under Section 7874 of the Code, if Medtronic Inc.'s shareholders immediately prior to the Covidien transaction held 80% or more of the vote or value of our shares by reason of holding stock in Medtronic, Inc. immediately after the transaction (the ownership. 22. Table of Contents. test), and our expanded affiliated group after the transaction did not have substantial business activities in Ireland relative to its worldwide activities (the substantial business activities test), we would have been treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Based on the rules for determining share ownership under Section 7874 of the Code, Medtronic, Inc.'s shareholders received approximately 70% of our ordinary shares (by both vote and value) by reason of holding stock in Medtronic, Inc. Therefore, under current law, we should not be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, there is limited guidance regarding the application of Section 7874, including the application of the ownership test. If we were to be treated as a U.S. corporation for federal tax purposes, we could be subject to substantially greater U.S. tax liability than currently contemplated as a non-U.S. corporation.. Legislative or other governmental action relating to the denial of U.S. federal or state governmental contracts to U.S. companies that redomicile abroad could adversely affect our business.. Various U.S. federal and state legislative proposals that would deny governmental contracts to U.S. companies that move their corporate location abroad may affect us. We are unable to predict the likelihood that, or final form in which, any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of the regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, or the effect such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business.. Risks Relating to Our Jurisdiction of Incorporation. We are incorporated in Ireland, and Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the U.S. and may afford less protection to holders of our securities.. Our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. It may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the U.S. against us in Ireland based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws. In addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of Ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised that the U.S. currently does not have a treaty with Ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any U.S. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on U.S. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in Ireland.. As an Irish company, we are governed by the Irish Companies Act 2014, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. Likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an Irish company generally are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. Accordingly, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in the U.S.. As an Irish public limited company, certain capital structure decisions require shareholder approval, which may limit Medtronic's flexibility to manage its capital structure.. Under Irish law, our authorized share capital can be increased by an ordinary resolution of our shareholders and the directors may issue new ordinary or preferred shares up to a maximum amount equal to the authorized but unissued share capital, without shareholder approval, once authorized to do so by our articles of association or by an ordinary resolution of our shareholders. Additionally, subject to specified exceptions, Irish law grants statutory preemption rights to existing shareholders where shares are being issued for cash consideration but allows shareholders to disapply such statutory preemption rights either in our articles of association or by way of special resolution. Such disapplication can either be generally applicable or be in respect of a particular allotment of shares. Accordingly, our articles of association contain, as permitted by Irish company law, provisions authorizing the board to issue new shares, and to disapply statutory preemption rights. The authorization of the directors to issue shares and the disapplication of statutory preemption rights must both be renewed by the shareholders at least every five years, and we cannot provide any assurance that these authorizations will always be approved, which could limit our ability to issue equity and thereby adversely affect the holders of our securities.. A transfer of our shares, other than ones effected by means of the transfer of book-entry interests in the Depository Trust Company, may be subject to Irish stamp duty.. Transfers of our shares effected by means of the transfer of book entry interests in the Depository Trust Company (DTC) will not be subject to Irish stamp duty. However, if a shareholder holds our shares directly rather than beneficially through DTC, any transfer of shares could be subject to Irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the higher of the price paid or the market. 23. Table of Contents. value of the shares acquired). Payment of Irish stamp duty is generally a legal obligation of the transferee. The potential for stamp duty could adversely affect the price of shares.. In certain limited circumstances, dividends we pay may be subject to Irish dividend withholding tax and dividends received by Irish residents and certain other shareholders may be subject to Irish income tax.. In certain limited circumstances, dividend withholding tax (currently at a rate of 20%) may arise in respect of dividends paid on our shares. A number of exemptions from dividend withholding tax exist such that shareholders resident in the U.S. and other specified countries may be entitled to exemptions from dividend withholding tax.. Shareholders resident in the U.S. that hold their shares through DTC will not be subject to dividend withholding tax, provided the addresses of the beneficial owners of such shares in the records of the brokers holding such shares are recorded as being in the U.S. (and such brokers have further transmitted the relevant information to a qualifying intermediary appointed by us). However, other shareholders may be subject to dividend withholding tax, which could adversely affect the price of their shares.. Shareholders entitled to an exemption from Irish dividend withholding tax on dividends received from us will not be subject to Irish income tax in respect of those dividends unless they have some connection with Ireland other than their shareholding in our Company (for example, they are resident in Ireland). Shareholders who receive dividends subject to Irish dividend withholding tax generally have no further liability to Irish income tax on those dividends.. Our shares received by means of a gift or inheritance could be subject to Irish capital acquisitions tax.. Irish capital acquisitions tax (CAT) could apply to a gift or inheritance of our shares irrespective of the place of residence, ordinary residence or domicile of the parties. This is because our shares will be regarded as property situated in Ireland. The person who receives the gift or inheritance has primary liability for CAT. Gifts and inheritances passing between spouses are exempt from CAT. Children have a tax-free threshold which Irish Revenue typically updates annually in respect of taxable gifts or inheritances received from their parents."
