[1] "Item 1A. \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tRisk Factors.. The following risk factors could affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.  These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report because they could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. Before you buy our common stock, you should know that investing in our common stock involves risks, including the risks described below. The risks that are highlighted here are not the only ones we face. If the adverse matters referred to in any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or operations could be adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.. Adverse changes in economic conditions or interest rates may negatively affect our earnings, capital and liquidity.. The results of operations for financial institutions, including our bank, may be materially and adversely affected by changes in prevailing local and national economic conditions, including declines in real estate market values and the related declines in value of our real estate collateral, rapid increases or decreases in interest rates and changes in the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government. Our profitability is heavily influenced by the spread between the interest rates we earn on loans and investments and the interest rates we pay on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in Western, Central, and Southeastern Michigan, and any decline in the economy of these areas could adversely affect us. Like most banking institutions, our net interest spread and margin will be affected by general economic conditions and other factors that influence market interest rates and our ability to respond to changes in these rates. At any given time, our assets and liabilities may be such that they will be affected differently by a given change in interest rates.. Significant declines in the value of commercial real estate could adversely impact us.. Approximately 66% of our total commercial loans, or about 57% of our total loans, relate to commercial real estate. Stressed economic conditions may reduce the value of commercial real estate and strain the financial condition of our commercial real estate borrowers, especially in the land development and non-owner occupied commercial real estate segments of our loan portfolio. Those difficulties could adversely affect us and could produce losses and other adverse effects on our business.. Market volatility may adversely affect us.. The capital and credit markets may experience volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without apparent regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. Future levels of market disruption and volatility may have an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 9. Table of Contents. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry.. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive environment. We compete for deposits, loans and other financial services with numerous Michigan-based and national and regional banks, thrifts, credit unions and other financial institutions as well as other entities that provide financial services, including securities firms and mutual funds. Some of the financial institutions and financial service organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as we are. Many of our competitors have been in business for many years, have established customer bases, are larger, have substantially higher lending limits than we do and offer larger branch networks and other services which we do not, including trust and international banking services. Most of these entities have greater capital and other resources than we do, which, among other things, may allow them to price their services at levels more favorable to the customer and to provide larger credit facilities than we do. This competition may limit our growth or earnings. Under specified circumstances (that have been modified by the Dodd-Frank Act), securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies under the Bank Holding Company Act may acquire banks and other financial institutions. Federal banking law affects the competitive environment in which we conduct our business. The financial services industry is also likely to become more competitive as further technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. These technological advances may diminish the importance of depository institutions and other financial intermediaries in the transfer of funds between parties.. Our risk management systems may fall short of their intended objectives.. We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a risk and control framework encompassing a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. Our risk management process seeks to balance our ability to profit from investing or lending positions with our exposure to potential losses. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Thus, we may, in the course of our activities, incur losses.. We may not be able to successfully adapt to evolving industry standards and market pressures.. Our success depends, in part, on the ability to adapt products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. This can reduce net interest income and noninterest income from fee-based products and services. In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services or develop new products and services. We may not be successful in introducing new products and services in response to industry trends or developments in technology, or those new products may not achieve market acceptance. As a result, we could lose business, be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, or be subject to cost increases. As a result, our business, financial condition, or results of operations may be adversely affected.. Our inability to integrate potential future acquisitions successfully could impede us from realizing all of the benefits of the acquisitions, which could weaken our operations.. If we are unable to successfully integrate potential future acquisitions, we could be impeded from realizing all of the benefits of those acquisitions and could weaken our business operations. The integration process may disrupt our business and, if implemented ineffectively, may preclude realization of the full benefits expected by us and could harm our results of operations. In addition, the overall integration of the combining companies may result in unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities and competitive responses, and may cause our stock price to decline. The difficulties of integrating an acquisition include, among others:. ° unanticipated issues in integration of information, communications and other systems;. ° unanticipated incompatibility of logistics, marketing and administration methods;. ° maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees;. ° integrating the business cultures of both companies;. ° preserving important strategic client relationships;. ° coordinating geographically diverse organizations; and. ° consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating duplicative operations.. 10. Table of Contents. Finally, even if the operations of an acquisition are integrated successfully, we may not realize the full benefits of the acquisition, including the synergies, cost savings or growth opportunities we expect. These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame as well.. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions.  Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Even routine funding transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. The timing and effect of Federal Reserve Board policy normalization remains uncertain.. In September 2014, the Federal Reserve Board announced principles it would follow to implement monetary policy normalization, that is, to raise the Federal funds rate and other short-term interest rates to more historically normal levels and to reduce the Federal Reserve’s securities holdings, so as to promote its statutory mandate of maximum employment and price stability. The Federal Open Market Committee (“FOMC”) took the initial step in that process by raising the Federal funds rate by 25 basis points in December 2015, the first such action since December 2008. Subsequently, the FOMC refined the normalization principles and announced greater detail about its planned approach. In September 2017, the FOMC announced the start of gradual reduction in the Federal Reserve’s securities holdings, commencing in October 2017. In each of March, June, and December 2017, the FOMC raised the Federal funds rate by 25 basis points, and announced its intention to continue to raise the Federal funds rate gradually over the next few years. There can be no assurance that these reductions in the Federal Reserve’s securities holdings, and increases in the Federal funds rate, will continue to occur, that they will be gradual if they do occur, or as to the actual impact of those policies on the financial markets, the broader economy, or on our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock.. The effect of financial services legislation and regulations remains uncertain.. In response to the financial crisis, on July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act, the most comprehensive reform of the regulation of the financial services industry since the Great Depression of the 1930’s. Among many other things, the Dodd-Frank Act provides for increased supervision of financial institutions by regulatory agencies, more stringent capital requirements for financial institutions, major changes to deposit insurance assessments by the FDIC, prohibitions on proprietary trading and sponsorship or investment in hedge funds and private equity funds by insured depository institutions, holding companies, and their affiliates, heightened regulation of hedging and derivatives activities, a greater focus on consumer protection issues, in part through the formation of a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”) having powers formerly split among different regulatory agencies, extensive changes to the regulation of residential mortgage lending, imposition of limits on interchange transaction and network fees for electronic debit transactions and repeal of the prohibition on payment of interest on demand deposits. Many of the Dodd-Frank Act’s provisions have delayed effective dates, while other provisions require implementing regulations of various federal agencies, some of which have not yet been adopted in final form.. On February 3, 2017, however, President Trump signed Executive Order 13772, specifying new core principles for regulating the U.S. financial system. Among other things, the President directed the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with federal regulatory agencies, to review existing laws and regulations and report on the extent to which they were consistent with the core principles. Beginning in February 2017, Congress passed, and the President signed, more than a dozen resolutions under the Congressional Review Act, repealing various federal regulations, including regulations adopted by the CFPB. Certain bills pending in Congress would, if enacted, repeal or substantially amend various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. Proposals to modify existing regulations in light of the new core principles are under consideration by various federal regulatory agencies, including the CFPB. There can be no assurance that any such legislation will be enacted, or that changes in existing regulations will be adopted to implement the new core principles.. 11. Table of Contents. Thus, the effect of financial services legislation and regulations remains uncertain. The implementation, amendment, or repeal of federal financial services laws or regulations may limit our business opportunities, impose additional costs on us, impact our revenues or the value of our assets, or otherwise adversely affect our business.. Our credit losses could increase and our allowance may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses.. The risk of nonpayment of loans is inherent in all lending activities, and nonpayment, when it occurs, may have a materially adverse effect on our earnings and overall financial condition as well as the value of our common stock. Our focus on commercial lending may result in a larger concentration of loans to small businesses. As a result, we may assume different or greater lending risks than other banks. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for losses based on several factors. If our assumptions are wrong, our allowance may not be sufficient to cover our losses, which would have an adverse effect on our operating results. The actual amounts of future provisions for loan losses cannot be determined at this time and may exceed the amounts of past provisions. Additions to our allowance decrease our net income.. We rely heavily on our management and other key personnel, and the loss of any of them may adversely affect our operations.. We are and will continue to be dependent upon the services of our management team, including our executive officers and our other senior managers.  The unanticipated loss of our executive officers, or any of our other senior managers, could have an adverse effect on our growth and performance.. In addition, we continue to depend on our key commercial loan officers. Several of our commercial loan officers are responsible, or share responsibility, for generating and managing a significant portion of our commercial loan portfolio. Our success can be attributed in large part to the relationships these officers as well as members of our management team have developed and are able to maintain with our customers as we continue to implement our community banking philosophy. The loss of any of these commercial loan officers could adversely affect our loan portfolio and performance, and our ability to generate new loans. Many of our key employees have signed agreements with us agreeing not to compete with us in one or more of our markets for specified time periods if they leave employment with us. However, we may not be able to effectively enforce such agreements.. Some of the other financial institutions in our markets also require their key employees to sign agreements that preclude or limit their ability to leave their employment and compete with them or solicit their customers.  These agreements make it more difficult for us to hire loan officers with experience in our markets who can immediately solicit their former or new customers on our behalf.. Future sales of our common stock or other securities may dilute the value of our common stock.. In many situations, our Board of Directors has the authority, without any vote of our shareholders, to issue shares of our authorized but unissued preferred or common stock, including shares authorized and unissued under our equity incentive plans. In the future, we may issue additional securities, through public or private offerings, in order to raise additional capital. Any such issuance would dilute the percentage of ownership interest of existing shareholders and may dilute the per share book value of the common stock. In addition, option holders under our stock-based incentive plans may exercise their options at a time when we would otherwise be able to obtain additional equity capital on more favorable terms.. We are subject to significant government regulation, and any regulatory changes may adversely affect us.. The banking industry is heavily regulated under both federal and state law.  These regulations are primarily intended to protect customers, the federal deposit insurance fund, and the stability of the U.S. financial system, not our creditors or shareholders. Existing state and federal banking laws subject us to substantial limitations with respect to the making of loans, the purchase of securities, the payment of dividends and many other aspects of our business. Some of these laws may benefit us, others may increase our costs of doing business, or otherwise adversely affect us and create competitive advantages for others. Regulations affecting banks and financial services companies undergo continuous change, which may be accelerated by the recent change in the federal administration, and we cannot predict the ultimate effect of these changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability or financial condition. Federal economic and monetary policy may also affect our ability to attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfactory interest spreads.. 12. Table of Contents. Minimum capital requirements have increased.. The provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act relating to capital to be maintained by financial institutions approach convergence with the standards (generally known as Basel III) adopted in December, 2010 by the Group of Governors and Heads of Supervision, the oversight body of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. Among other things, those standards contain a narrower definition of elements qualifying for inclusion as Tier 1 capital and higher minimum risk-based capital levels than those specified in previous U.S. law and regulations. In July, 2013, the U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies adopted regulations to implement the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III for U.S. financial institutions. The new regulations became applicable to us and our bank effective January 1, 2015.. The new regulations implemented (i) revised definitions of regulatory capital elements, (ii) a new common equity Tier 1 (“CET 1”) minimum capital ratio requirement, (iii) an increase in the existing minimum Tier 1 capital ratio requirement, (iv) new limits on capital distributions and certain discretionary bonus payments if an institution does not hold a specified amount of CET 1 (called a capital conservation buffer) in addition to the amount required to meet its minimum risk-based capital requirements, (v) new risk-weightings for certain categories of assets, and (vi) other requirements applicable to banking organizations which have total consolidated assets of $250 billion or more, total consolidated on-balance sheet foreign exposure of $10 billion or more, elect to use the advanced measurement approach for calculating risk-weighted assets, or are subsidiaries of banking organizations that use the advanced measurement approach (“Advanced Approaches Entities”).. Among other things, the new regulations generally require banking organizations to recognize in regulatory capital most components of accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”), including accumulated unrealized gains and losses on available for sale securities. This requirement, which was not imposed under previous risk-based capital regulations, may be avoided by banking organizations, such as us and our bank, that are not Advanced Approaches Entities, by making a one-time, irrevocable election on the first quarterly regulatory report following the date on which the regulations become effective as to them. We made the one-time, irrevocable election regarding the treatment of AOCI on March 31, 2015.. In addition, the new regulations (unlike the original proposal), permit companies such as us, which had total assets of less than $15 billion on December 31, 2009, and had issued trust preferred securities on or prior to May 19, 2010, to continue to include such securities in Tier 1 capital.. On January 1, 2015, for banking organizations such as us and our bank that are not Advanced Approaches Entities, the new regulations mandated a minimum ratio of CET 1 to standardized total risk-weighted assets (“RWA”) of 4.5%, an increased ratio of Tier 1 capital to RWA of 6.0% (compared to the prior requirement of 4.0%), a total capital ratio (that is, the sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital to RWA) of 8.0%, and a minimum leverage ratio (that is, Tier 1 capital to adjusted average total consolidated assets) of 4.0%. The calculation of these amounts is affected by the new definitions of certain capital elements. The capital conservation buffer comprised solely of CET 1 is being phased-in commencing January 1, 2016, beginning at 0.625% of RWA and rising to 2.5% of RWA on January 1, 2019. Failure by a banking organization to maintain the aggregate required minimum capital ratios and capital conservation buffer will impair its ability to make certain distributions (including dividends and stock repurchases) and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers.. These increased minimum capital requirements may adversely affect our ability (and that of our bank) to pay cash dividends, reduce our profitability, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In the event of a need for additional capital to meet these requirements, there can be no assurance of our ability to raise funding in the equity and capital markets. Factors that we cannot control, such as the disruption of financial markets or negative views of the financial services industry generally, could impair our ability to raise qualifying equity capital. In addition, our ability to raise qualifying equity capital could be impaired if investors develop a negative perception of our financial prospects. If we were unable to raise qualifying equity capital, it might be necessary for us to sell assets in order to maintain required capital ratios. We may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition.. 13. Table of Contents. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, and such capital may not be available when needed or at all.. We may need or want to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs, particularly if our asset quality or earnings were to deteriorate significantly. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance. Economic conditions and any loss of confidence in financial institutions generally may increase our cost of funding and limit access to certain customary sources of capital.. There can be no assurance that capital will be available on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of equity or debt purchasers, or counterparties participating in the capital markets, may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, potentially, our liquidity. Also, if we need to raise capital in the future, we may have to do so when many other financial institutions are also seeking to raise capital and would have to compete with those institutions for investors. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in the method of determining Libor, or the replacement of Libor with an alternative reference rate, may adversely affect interest income or expense.. Many of the commercial loans we make bear interest at a floating rate based on Libor, the London inter-bank offered rate. We pay interest on certain subordinated notes related to our trust preferred securities, and a related interest rate swap agreement, at rates based on Libor. On July 27, 2017, the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority, which oversees Libor, formally announced that it could not assure the continued existence of Libor in its current form beyond the end of 2021, and that an orderly transition process to one or more alternative benchmarks should begin. In June 2017, the Alternative Reference Rates Committee, a steering committee comprised of large U.S. financial institutions organized by the Federal Reserve, announced that it had selected a modified version of the unpublished Broad Treasuries Financing Rate as the preferred alternative reference rate for U.S. dollar obligations. That rate, now referred to as the Secured Overnight Funding Rate (“SOFR”), is determined based upon actual transactions in certain portions of the bi-lateral and tri-party overnight repurchase agreement markets for certain U.S. Treasury obligations. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York has stated that it expected to begin publication of the SOFR in the first half of 2018.. In February 2018, an international consortium of market participant trade associations published the IBOR Global Benchmark Survey 2018 Transition Roadmap (“Roadmap”). The Roadmap summarizes the background to the use of inter-bank offered rate benchmarks, discusses perceived reasons for reform, and identifies problems that may be encountered in making a transition to new interest rate benchmarks. Those potential problems include market adoption, liquidity, legal, valuation and risk management, infrastructure, tax, accounting, governance and control, and regulatory issues.. It is unclear whether, or in what form, Libor will continue to exist after 2021. Any transition to an alternative benchmark will require careful consideration and implementation so as not to disrupt the stability of financial markets. If Libor ceases to exist, we may need to take a variety of actions, including negotiating certain of our agreements based on an alternative benchmark that may be established, if any. There is no guarantee that a transition from Libor to an alternative benchmark will not result in financial market disruptions, significant changes in benchmark rates, or adverse changes in the value of certain of our loans, and our income and expense.. We continually encounter technological change, and we may have fewer resources than our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements.. The banking industry is undergoing technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services.  In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements than we do. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers.. 14. Table of Contents. Our Articles of Incorporation and By-laws and the laws of the State of Michigan contain provisions that may discourage or prevent a takeover of our company and reduce any takeover premium.. Our Articles of Incorporation and By-laws, and the corporate laws of the State of Michigan, include provisions which are designed to provide our Board of Directors with time to consider whether a hostile takeover offer is in our and our shareholders’ best interest. These provisions, however, could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control. The provisions also could diminish the opportunities for a holder of our common stock to participate in tender offers, including tender offers at a price above the then-current market price for our common stock. These provisions could also prevent transactions in which our shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then-current market prices, and may limit the ability of our shareholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interest.. The Michigan Business Corporation Act contains provisions intended to protect shareholders and prohibit or discourage various types of hostile takeover activities. In addition to these provisions and the provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and By-laws, federal law requires the Federal Reserve Board’s approval prior to acquiring “control” of a bank holding company. All of these provisions may delay or prevent a change in control without action by our shareholders and could adversely affect the price of our common stock.. There is a limited trading market for our common stock.. The price of our common stock has been, and will likely continue to be, subject to fluctuations based on, among other things, economic and market conditions for bank holding companies and the stock market in general, as well as changes in investor perceptions of our company. The issuance of new shares of our common stock also may affect the market for our common stock.. Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “MBWM.” The development and maintenance of an active public trading market depends upon the existence of willing buyers and sellers, the presence of which is beyond our control. While we are a publicly-traded company, the volume of trading activity in our stock is still relatively limited. Even if a more active market develops, there can be no assurance that such a market will continue, or that our shareholders will be able to sell their shares at or above the price at which they acquired shares.. Our business is subject to operational risks.. We, like most financial institutions, are exposed to many types of operational risks, including the risk of fraud by employees or outsiders, unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors.  Operational errors may include clerical or record keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. Given our volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully corrected. Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process our transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical system flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect.. We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, including, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages, which may give rise to losses in service to customers and to loss or liability to us. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations to us, or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as are we, and to the risk that our or our vendors’ business continuity and data security systems prove not to be adequate. We also face the risk that the design of our controls and procedures proves inadequate or is circumvented, causing delays in detection or errors in information. Although we maintain a system of controls designed to keep operational risks at appropriate levels, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer losses from operational risks in the future that may be material in amount.. 15. Table of Contents. We face the risk of cyber-attack to our computer systems.. In the ordinary course of business, we collect and store sensitive data, including proprietary business information and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees in systems and on networks. The secure processing, maintenance and use of this information is critical to our operations. To date, we have not experienced a significant compromise, significant data loss or any material financial losses related to cybersecurity attacks, but our systems and those of our customers and third-party service providers are under constant threat, and it is possible that we could experience a significant event in the future. Cybersecurity threats include unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data (including confidential client information), account takeovers, unavailability of service, computer viruses or other malicious code, cyber-attacks and other events. These threats may derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of employees or third parties, or may result from accidental technological failure. If one or more of these events occurs, it could result in the disclosure of confidential client information, damage to our reputation with our clients and the market, additional costs to us (such as repairing systems or adding new personnel or protection technologies), regulatory penalties and financial losses, to both us and our clients and customers. Such events could also cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations (such as the lack of availability of our online banking system), as well as the operations of our clients, customers or other third parties. Risks and exposures related to cybersecurity attacks are expected to remain high for the foreseeable future due to the rapidly evolving nature and sophistication of these threats, as well as due to the expanding use of Internet banking, mobile banking and other technology-based products and services by us and our customers. Although we maintain safeguards to protect against these risks, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer losses in the future that may be material in amount.. In March 2015, federal regulators issued two related statements regarding cybersecurity. One statement indicates that financial institutions should design multiple layers of security controls to establish lines of defense and to ensure that their risk management processes also address the risk posed by compromised customer credentials, including security measures to reliably authenticate customers accessing internet-based services of the financial institution. The other statement indicates that a financial institution’s management is expected to maintain sufficient business continuity planning processes to ensure the rapid recovery, resumption and maintenance of the institution’s operations after a cyber-attack involving destructive malware. A financial institution is also expected to develop appropriate processes to enable recovery of data and business operations and address rebuilding network capabilities and restoring data if the institution or its critical service providers fall victim to this type of cyber-attack. If we fail to observe the regulatory guidance, we could be subject to various regulatory sanctions, including financial penalties.. Damage to our reputation could materially harm our business.. Our relationship with many of our clients is predicated upon our reputation as a fiduciary and a service provider that adheres to the highest standards of ethics, service quality and regulatory compliance.  Adverse publicity, regulatory actions, litigation, operational failures, the failure to meet client expectations and other issues with respect to one or more of our businesses could materially and adversely affect our reputation, our ability to attract and retain clients or our sources of funding for the same or other businesses. Preserving and enhancing our reputation also depends on maintaining systems and procedures that address known risks and regulatory requirements, as well as our ability to identify and mitigate additional risks that arise due to changes in our businesses and the marketplaces in which we operate, the regulatory environment and client expectations. If any of these developments has a material effect on our reputation, our business will suffer."         
