[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Business. A worsening of economic conditions could result in increases in our level of non-performing loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which could have adverse effect on our results of operations.. Although the U.S. economy has emerged from the severe recession that occurred in 2008 and 2009, economic growth has been slow and unemployment levels remain high despite the Federal Reserve Board's unprecedented efforts to encourage economic growth by maintaining low interest rates through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of U.S. Treasury and mortgage-backed securities. Recovery by many businesses has been impaired by lower consumer spending. If the Federal Reserve Board increases the federal funds rate or more rapidly curtails its bond purchasing program, higher interest rates would likely result, which may reduce our loan originations, and housing markets and U.S. economic activity would be negatively affected.. Unlike larger financial institutions that are more geographically diversified, our profitability depends on the general economic conditions in the Boston metropolitan area. Local economic conditions have a significant impact on our commercial real estate and construction and consumer loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. Almost all of our loans are to borrowers located in the greater Boston, Massachusetts metropolitan area or secured by collateral located in the greater Boston, Massachusetts metropolitan area.. A further deterioration in economic conditions or a prolonged delay in economic recovery in the market areas we serve, in particular the greater Boston, Massachusetts metropolitan area, could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations:. <U+0095>    demand for our products and services may decline;. <U+0095>    loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase;. <U+0095>    collateral for loans, especially real estate, may decline further in value, in turn reducing customers' borrowing power, reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans;. <U+0095>    the value of our securities portfolio may decline;. <U+0095>    the net worth and liquidity of loan guarantors may decline, impairing their ability to honor commitments to us; and. <U+0095>    the amount of our low-cost or non-interest-bearing deposits may decrease.. Moreover, a significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, an outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic calamities, unemployment or other factors beyond our control could further impact these local economic conditions and could further negatively affect the financial results of our banking operations. In addition, deflationary pressures, while possibly lowering our operating costs, could have a significant negative effect on our borrowers, especially our business borrowers, and the values of underlying collateral securing loans, which could negatively affect our financial performance.. Our emphasis on commercial real estate, multi-family, commercial business and construction lending involves risks that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. In recent years, we have focused on shifting our asset mix from increases in the one- to four-family residential loan portfolio to increases in commercial real estate, multi-family, commercial business and construction loans. As of December 31, 2013, our commercial real estate, multi-family, commercial business and construction loans totaled $1.776 billion, or 77.5% of our loan portfolio. As a result, our credit risk profile is higher than traditional savings institutions that have higher concentrations of one- to four-family residential loans. Also, these types of commercial lending activities, while potentially more profitable than one- to four-family residential lending, are generally more sensitive to regional and local economic conditions, making loss levels more difficult to predict. Collateral evaluation and financial statement analysis in these types of loans requires a more detailed analysis at the time of loan underwriting and on an ongoing basis. A decline in real. 28. Table of Contents. estate values would reduce the value of the real estate collateral securing our loans and increase the risk that we would incur losses if borrowers defaulted on their loans. In addition, the repayment of commercial real estate and multi-family loans generally is dependent, in large part, on the successful operation of the property securing the loan or the business conducted on the property securing the loan. In addition, loan balances for commercial real estate, multi-family and construction loans are typically larger than those for permanent single-family and consumer loans. Accordingly, when there are defaults and losses on these types of loans, they are often larger on a per loan basis than those for permanent one- to four-family residential and consumer loans. Commercial business loans expose us to additional risks since they typically are made on the basis of the borrower's ability to make repayments from the cash flow of the borrower's business and are secured by non-real estate collateral that may depreciate over time, may be illiquid and may fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. A secondary market for most types of commercial real estate, multi-family, commercial business and construction loans is not readily liquid, so we have less opportunity to mitigate credit risk by selling part or all of our interest in these loans.. Our construction loans are based upon estimates of costs and values associated with the completed project. These estimates may be inaccurate. Construction lending involves additional risks when compared with permanent residential lending because funds are advanced upon the security of the project, which is of uncertain value prior to its completion. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, as well as the market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. This type of lending also typically involves higher loan principal amounts and is often concentrated with a small number of builders. In addition, generally during the term of a construction loan, interest may be funded by the borrower or disbursed from an interest reserve set aside from the construction loan budget. These loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment substantially dependent on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or obtain permanent take-out financing, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. If our appraisal of the value of a completed project proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project and may incur a loss. In addition, speculative construction loans to a builder are often associated with homes that are not pre-sold, and thus pose a greater potential risk to us than construction loans to individuals on their personal residences. These risks can be significantly affected by supply and demand conditions.. The credit risk related to commercial real estate and multi-family loans is considered to be greater than the risk related to one- to four-family residential or consumer loans because the repayment of commercial real estate loans and multi-family typically is dependent on the income stream of the real estate securing the loan as collateral and the successful operation of the borrower's business, which can be significantly affected by conditions in the real estate markets or in the economy. For example, if the cash flow from the borrower's project is reduced as a result of leases not being obtained or renewed, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired. In addition, some of our commercial real estate loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. These balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the balloon payment, which may increase the risk of default or non-payment. This risk was exacerbated in the recent recession and could remain an elevated risk in the current slow recovery economic environment.. Further, if we foreclose on a commercial real estate, multi-family or construction loan, our holding period for the collateral may be longer than for one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. These loans also generally have relatively large balances to single borrowers or related groups of borrowers. Accordingly, if we make any errors in judgment in the collectibility of our commercial real estate loans, any resulting charge-offs may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred with our residential or consumer loan portfolios.. Our portfolio of loans with a higher risk of loss is increasing and the unseasoned nature of our commercial loan portfolio may result in errors in judging its collectability, which may lead to additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, which would hurt our profits.. Our commercial loan portfolio, which includes commercial real estate, multi-family, commercial business and construction loans, has increased to $1.776 billion, or 77.5% of total loans, at December 31, 2013 from. 29. Table of Contents. $870.0 million, or 64.2% of total loans, at December 31, 2011. A large portion of our commercial loan portfolio is unseasoned, meaning they were originated recently. Our limited experience with these borrowers does not provide us with a significant payment history pattern with which to judge future collectability. Further, these loans have not been subjected to unfavorable economic conditions. As a result, it is difficult to predict the future performance of this part of our loan portfolio. These loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above our historical experience, which could adversely affect our future performance.. Our business strategy includes the continuation of significant growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively.. We expect to continue to experience growth in the amount of our assets, the level of our deposits and the scale of our operations. Achieving our growth targets requires us to attract customers that currently bank at other financial institutions in our market, thereby increasing our share of the market. Our ability to successfully grow will depend on a variety of factors, including our ability to attract and retain experienced bankers, the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market areas and our ability to manage our growth. Growth opportunities may not be available or we may not be able to manage our growth successfully. If we do not manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to achieve our business plan, and our business could be harmed.. Declines in property values can increase the loan-to-value ratios on our residential mortgage loan portfolio, which could expose us to greater risk of loss.. Some of our residential mortgage loans are secured by liens on mortgage properties in which the borrowers have little or no equity because either we originated the loan with a relatively high combined loan-to-value ratio or because of the decline in home values in our market areas. Residential loans with high combined loan-to-value ratios will be more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and therefore may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, such borrowers may be unable to repay their loans in full from the sale proceeds. As a result, these loans may experience higher rates of delinquencies, defaults and losses.. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease.. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is established through a provision for loan losses that represents management's best estimate of probable losses within the existing portfolio of loans. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. In determining the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses, we rely on our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our current allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio and adjustment may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Consequently, a problem with one or more loans could require us to significantly increase the level of our provision for loan losses. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease our net income.. Our allowance for loan losses increased in 2013, primarily due to growth in the multi-family, commercial real estate, construction and commercial business loan categories, as such loans have higher inherent credit risk than loans in our residential real estate loan categories. Refer to \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition  -  Asset Quality.\". Historically low interest rates may adversely affect our net interest income and profitability.. During the past five years it has been the policy of the Federal Reserve Board to maintain interest rates at historically low levels through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. As a result, market rates on the loans we have originated and the yields on securities we have purchased have been at. 30. Table of Contents. lower levels than available prior to 2008. As a general matter, our interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, which can lower interest expense as interest rates decrease. However, our ability to lower our interest expense will be limited at these interest rate levels while the average yield on our interest-earning assets may continue to decrease. The Federal Reserve Board has previously indicated its intention to maintain low interest rates until the unemployment rate is 6.5% or lower. Accordingly, our net interest income may be adversely affected and may even decrease, which may have an adverse effect on our profitability.. Changes in interest rates could hurt our profits.. Our profitability, like most financial institutions, depends to a large extent upon our net interest income, which is the difference between our interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and our interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Accordingly, our results of operations depend largely on movements in market interest rates and our ability to manage our interest-rate-sensitive assets and liabilities in response to these movements. Factors such as inflation, recession and instability in financial markets, among other factors beyond our control, may affect interest rates.. If interest rates rise, and if rates on our deposits reprice upwards faster than the rates on our long-term loans and investments, we would experience compression of our interest rate spread, which would have a negative effect on our profitability. Conversely, decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce their borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk as we may have to redeploy such loan or securities proceeds into lower-yielding assets, which might also negatively impact our income.. Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Further, a prolonged period of exceptionally low market interest rates, such as we are currently experiencing, and the Federal Reserve Board has indicated it intends to maintain, limits our ability to lower our interest expense, while the average yield on our interest-earning assets may continue to decrease as our loans reprice or are originated at these low market rates. Accordingly, our net interest income may continue to decrease, which may have an adverse affect on our profitability. Also, our interest rate risk modeling techniques and assumptions likely may not fully predict or capture the impact of actual interest rate changes on our balance sheet or projected operating results.. While we pursue an asset/liability strategy designed to mitigate our risk from changes in interest rates, changes in interest rates can still have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate real estate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings. For further discussion of how changes in interest rates could impact us, see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition  -  Risk Management  -  Interest Rate Risk Management.\". Changes in the valuation of our securities portfolio could hurt our profits.. Our securities portfolio may be impacted by fluctuations in market value, potentially reducing accumulated other comprehensive income and/or earnings. Fluctuations in market value may be caused by changes in market interest rates, lower market prices for securities and limited investor demand. Management evaluates securities for other-than-temporary impairment on a monthly basis, with more frequent evaluation for selected issues. In analyzing a debt issuer's financial condition, management considers whether the securities are issued by the federal government or its agencies, whether downgrades by bond rating agencies have occurred, industry analysts' reports and, to a lesser extent given the relatively insignificant levels of depreciation in our debt portfolio, spread differentials between the effective rates on instruments in the portfolio compared to risk-free rates. In analyzing an equity issuer's financial condition, management considers industry analysts' reports, financial performance and projected target prices of investment analysts within a one-year time frame. If this evaluation shows impairment to the actual or projected cash flows associated with one or more securities, a potential loss to earnings may occur. Changes in interest rates can also have an adverse effect on our financial condition, as our available-for-sale securities are reported at their estimated fair value, and therefore are impacted. 31. Table of Contents. by fluctuations in interest rates. We increase or decrease our stockholders' equity by the amount of change in the estimated fair value of the available-for-sale securities, net of taxes. The declines in market value could result in other-than-temporary impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our net income and capital levels. Refer to \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition  -  Securities Portfolio.\". Effective December 10, 2013, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, federal banking and securities regulators issued final rules to implement Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act (the \"Volcker Rule\"). Generally, subject to a transition period and certain exceptions, the Volcker Rule restricts insured depository institutions and their affiliated companies from engaging in short-term proprietary trading of certain securities, investing in funds with collateral comprised of less than 100% loans that are not registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission and from engaging in hedging activities that do not hedge a specific identified risk. After the transition period, the Volcker Rule prohibitions and restrictions will apply to banking entities unless an exception applies. We are currently analyzing the impact of the Volcker Rule on our investment portfolio, and if any changes are required to our investment strategies that could negatively affect our earnings.. The financial services sector represents a significant concentration within our investment portfolio.. Within our investment portfolio, we have a significant amount of marketable equity, corporate debt and mortgage-backed securities issued by companies in the financial services sector. Given the current market conditions, this sector has an enhanced level of credit risk. We are also reviewing the requirements of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (\"Basel III\") regulatory capital reforms and the possibility that our retention of these securities may reduce our risk based regulatory capital.. Impairment of goodwill could require charges to earnings, which could result in a negative impact on our results of operations.. Goodwill arises when a business is purchased for an amount greater than the net fair value of its assets. We recognized goodwill as an asset on our balance sheet in connection with its acquisition of Mt. Washington Co-operative Bank. We evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually. Although we determined that goodwill was not impaired during 2013, a significant and sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization, a significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower growth rates or other factors could result in impairment of goodwill. If we were to conclude that a future write-down of the goodwill was necessary, then we would record the appropriate charge to earnings, which could be materially adverse to the results of operations and financial position. For further discussion of our methodology of evaluating and impairing goodwill, refer to \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition  -  Critical Accounting Policies  -  Evaluation of Goodwill and Analysis for Impairment.\". The building of market share through de novo branching and expansion of our residential, commercial real estate and commercial business lending capacity could cause our expenses to increase faster than revenues.. We intend to continue to build market share in the greater Boston metropolitan area through de novo branching and expansion of our residential, commercial real estate and commercial business lending capacity. Since 2002, we have opened 14 de novo branches including the most recent branch opened in November 2013. In the third quarter of 2011, we significantly expanded our commercial business lending capacity with the establishment of a new corporate banking division comprised of a veteran team of bankers that is expected to enhance our presence in all of our market areas and add strength to our business platform. There are considerable costs involved in opening branches and expansion of lending capacity that generally require a period of time to generate the necessary revenues to offset their costs, especially in areas in which we do not have an established presence. Accordingly, any such business expansion can be expected to negatively impact our earnings for some period of time until certain economies of scale are reached. Our expenses could be further increased if we encounter delays in the opening of any of our new branches. Finally, our business expansion may not be successful after establishment.. 32. Table of Contents. Changes in the programs offered by secondary market purchasers or our ability to qualify for their programs may reduce our mortgage banking revenues, which would negatively impact our non-interest income.. Our mortgage banking operations provide a significant portion of our non-interest income. We generate mortgage revenues primarily from gains on the sale of single-family mortgage loans pursuant to programs currently offered by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Ginnie Mae and non-GSE investors. These entities account for a substantial portion of the secondary market in residential mortgage loans. Any future changes in these programs, our eligibility to participate in such programs, the criteria for loans to be accepted or laws that significantly affect the activity of such entities could, in turn, materially adversely affect our results of operations. Mortgage banking is generally considered a volatile source of income because it depends largely on the level of loan volume which, in turn, depends largely on prevailing market interest rates. In a rising or higher interest rate environment, our originations of mortgage loans may decrease, resulting in fewer loans that are available to be sold to investors. This would result in a decrease in mortgage banking revenues and a corresponding decrease in non-interest income. In addition, our results of operations are affected by the amount of non-interest expense associated with mortgage banking activities, such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy and equipment expense, data processing expense and other operating costs. During periods of reduced loan demand, our results of operations may be adversely affected to the extent that we are unable to reduce expenses commensurate with the decline in loan originations. In addition, although we sell most loans into the secondary market without recourse, we are required to give customary representations and warranties about the loans to the buyers. If we breach those representations and warranties, the buyers may require us to repurchase the loans and we may incur a loss on the repurchase.. Failure to manage our growth may adversely affect our performance.. Our financial performance and profitability depend on our ability to manage past and future growth. Future acquisitions and growth may present operating, integration and other issues that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. Our funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits at maturity and support our future growth.. We must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers. As a part of our liquidity management, we use a number of funding sources in addition to core deposit growth and repayments and maturities of loans and investments. As we continue to grow, we are likely to become more dependent on these sources, which include Federal Home Loan Bank advances, proceeds from the sale of loans; federal funds purchased and brokered certificates of deposit. Adverse operating results or changes in industry conditions could lead to difficulty or an inability to access these additional funding sources. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. If we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our operating margins and profitability would be adversely affected. Additionally, collateralized public funds are bank deposits of state and local municipalities. These deposits are required to be secured by certain investment grade securities to ensure repayment, which on the one hand tends to reduce our contingent liquidity risk by making these funds somewhat less credit sensitive, but on the other hand reduces standby liquidity by restricting the potential liquidity of the pledged collateral. Although these funds historically have been a relatively stable source of funds for us, availability depends on the individual municipality's fiscal policies and cash flow needs. At December 31, 2013, $88.3 million of our deposits were public funds.. We will become subject to more stringent capital requirements, which may adversely impact our return on equity, require us to raise additional capital, or constrain us from paying dividends or repurchasing shares.. In July 2013, the federal banking agencies approved a new rule that will substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to the Bank and the Company. The final rule implements the Basel III regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act.. 33. Table of Contents. The final rule includes new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which will be effective for us on January 1, 2015, and refines the definition of what constitutes \"capital\" for purposes of calculating these ratios. The new minimum capital requirements will be: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 to risk-based assets capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from current rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%. The final rule also requires unrealized gains and losses on certain \"available-for-sale\" securities holdings to be included for purposes of calculating regulatory capital requirements unless a one-time opt-out is exercised. The Bank has elected to exercise its one-time option to opt-out of the requirement under the final rule to include certain \"available-for-sale\" securities holdings for purposes of calculating its regulatory capital requirements. The final rule also establishes a \"capital conservation buffer\" of 2.5%, and will result in the following minimum ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%, (ii) a Tier 1 to risk-based assets capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. The new capital conservation buffer requirement would be phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and would increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution will be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount. These limitations will establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that can be utilized for such actions.. The application of more stringent capital requirements could, among other things, result in lower returns on equity, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business models, and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk-based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy, and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying out dividends or buying back shares. Specifically, beginning in 2016, the Bank's ability to pay dividends will be limited if does not have the capital conservation buffer required by the new capital rules, which may limit our ability to pay dividends to stockholders. See \"Supervision and Regulation  -  Federal Banking Regulation  -  New Capital Rule.\". The level of our commercial real estate loan portfolio may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny.. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the other federal bank regulatory agencies have promulgated joint guidance on sound risk management practices for financial institutions with concentrations in commercial real estate lending. Under the guidance, a financial institution that, like us, is actively involved in commercial real estate lending should perform a risk assessment to identify concentrations. A financial institution may have a concentration in commercial real estate lending if, among other factors, (i) total reported loans for construction, land acquisition and development, and other land represent 100% or more of total capital, or (ii) total reported loans secured by multi-family and non-farm residential properties, loans for construction, land acquisition and development and other land, and loans otherwise sensitive to the general commercial real estate market, including loans to commercial real estate related entities, represent 300% or more of total capital. Based on these factors we have a concentration in multi-family and commercial real estate lending, as such loans represent 560% of total bank capital as of December 31, 2013. The particular focus of the guidance is on exposure to commercial real estate loans that are dependent on the cash flow from the real estate held as collateral and that are likely to be at greater risk to conditions in the commercial real estate market (as opposed to real estate collateral held as a secondary source of repayment or as an abundance of caution). The purpose of the guidance is to guide banks in developing risk management practices and capital levels commensurate with the level and nature of real estate concentrations. The guidance states that management should employ heightened risk management practices including board and management oversight and strategic planning, development of underwriting standards, risk assessment and monitoring through market analysis and stress testing. While we believe we have implemented policies and procedures with respect to our commercial real estate loan portfolio consistent with this guidance, bank regulators could require us to implement additional policies and procedures consistent with their interpretation of the guidance that may result in additional costs to us or that may result in a curtailment of our multi-family and commercial real estate lending that would adversely affect our loan originations and profitability.. 34. Table of Contents. Changes in laws and regulations and the cost of regulatory compliance with new laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations, increase our costs of operations and decrease our efficiency.. The Company and the Bank are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Federal Reserve Board. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of the Bank rather than for holders of our common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. These regulations, along with the currently existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance, monetary laws, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Further, changes in accounting standards can be both difficult to predict and involve judgment and discretion in their interpretation by us and our independent accounting firms. These changes could materially impact, potentially even retroactively, how we report our financial condition and results of our operations as could our interpretation of those changes.. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was enacted in 2010. This new law is significantly changing the current bank regulatory structure and affects the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impacts of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years.. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit \"unfair, deceptive or abusive\" acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks with $10 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary bank regulators. The Dodd-Frank Act also weakened the federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and federal savings associations, and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws.. In January 2013, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau issued several final regulations and changes to certain consumer protections under existing laws. These final rules, most of the provisions of which become effective January 10, 2014, generally prohibit creditors from extending mortgage loans without regard for the consumer's ability to repay and add restrictions and requirements to mortgage origination and servicing practices. In addition, these rules limit prepayment penalties and require the creditor to retain evidence of compliance with the ability-to-repay requirement for three years. Compliance with these rules will likely increase our overall regulatory compliance costs and may require changes to our underwriting practices with respect to mortgage loans. Moreover, these rules may adversely affect the volume of mortgage loans that we underwrite and may subject us to increased potential liabilities related to such residential loan origination activities.. The Dodd-Frank Act requires minimum leverage (Tier 1) and risk based capital requirements for bank holding companies and savings and loan holding companies that are no less than those applicable to banks, which will limit our ability to borrow at the holding company level and invest the proceeds from such borrowings as capital in the Bank, and will exclude certain instruments that previously have been eligible for inclusion by bank holding companies as Tier 1 capital, such as trust preferred securities.. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business will not be known until all of the regulations implementing the statute are adopted and implemented. As a result, we cannot at this time predict the extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act will impact our business, operations or financial condition. However, compliance. 35. Table of Contents. with these new laws and regulations may require us to make changes to our business and operations and will likely result in additional costs and divert management's time from other business activities, any of which may adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition.. In addition, there have been proposals made by members of Congress and others that would reduce the amount distressed borrowers are otherwise contractually obligated to pay under their mortgage loans and limit an institution's ability to foreclose on mortgage collateral. If proposals such as these, or other proposals limiting our rights as a creditor, are implemented, we could experience increased credit losses or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor. Any other additional changes in our regulation and oversight, whether in the form of new laws, rules or regulations, could likewise make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise materially adversely affect, along with negative developments in the financial services industry and the credit markets, may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, and our business, financial condition or prospects.. Proposed and final regulations could restrict our ability to originate and sell loans.. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has issued a rule designed to clarify for lenders how they can avoid legal liability under the Dodd-Frank Act, which would hold lenders accountable for ensuring a borrower's ability to repay a mortgage. Loans that meet this \"qualified mortgage\" definition will be presumed to have complied with the new ability-to-repay standard. Under the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau's rule, a \"qualified mortgage\" loan must not contain certain specified features, including:. <U+0095>    excessive upfront points and fees (those exceeding 3% of the total loan amount, less \"bona fide discount points\" for prime loans);. <U+0095>    interest-only payments;. <U+0095>    negative-amortization; and. <U+0095>    terms longer than 30 years.. Also, to qualify as a \"qualified mortgage,\" a borrower's total monthly debt-to-income ratio may not exceed 43%. Lenders must also verify and document the income and financial resources relied upon to qualify the borrower for the loan and underwrite the loan based on a fully amortizing payment schedule and maximum interest rate during the first five years, taking into account all applicable taxes, insurance and assessments. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau's rule on qualified mortgages could limit our ability or desire to make certain types of loans or loans to certain borrowers, or could make it more expensive/and or time consuming to make these loans, which could limit our growth or profitability.. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act requires the regulatory agencies to issue regulations that require securitizers of loans to retain not less than 5% of the credit risk for any asset that is not a \"qualified residential mortgage.\" The regulatory agencies have issued a proposed rule to implement this requirement. The Dodd-Frank Act provides that the definition of \"qualified residential mortgage\" can be no broader than the definition of \"qualified mortgage\" issued by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau for purposes of its regulations (as described above). Although the final rule with respect to the retention of credit risk has not yet been issued, the final rule could have a significant effect on the secondary market for loans and the types of loans we originate, and restrict our ability to make loans.. Non-compliance with the USA PATRIOT Act, Bank Secrecy Act, or other laws and regulations could result in fines or sanctions.. The USA PATRIOT and Bank Secrecy Acts require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. If such activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury's Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or sanctions. During the last year, several banking institutions have received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations. While we have developed policies and procedures designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations, these policies and procedures may not be effective in preventing violations of these laws and regulations.. 36. Table of Contents. Legal and regulatory proceedings and related matters could adversely affect us or the financial services industry in general.. We, and other participants in the financial services industry upon whom we rely to operate, have been and may in the future become involved in legal and regulatory proceedings. Most of the proceedings we consider to be in the normal course of our business or typical for the industry; however, it is inherently difficult to assess the outcome of these matters and , other participants in the financial services industry or we may not prevail in any proceeding or litigation. There could be substantial cost and management diversion in such litigation and proceedings, and any adverse determination could have a materially adverse effect on our business, brand or image, or our financial condition and results of our operations.. Strong competition within our market area could hurt our profits and slow growth.. We face intense competition in making loans and attracting deposits. Price competition for loans and deposits sometimes results in us charging lower interest rates on our loans and paying higher interest rates on our deposits and may reduce our net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult and costly to attract and retain qualified employees. Many of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. If we are not able to effectively compete in our market area, our profitability may be negatively affected, potentially limiting our ability to pay dividends. The greater resources and broader offering of deposit and loan products of some of our competitors may also limit our ability to increase our interest-earning assets. For more information about our market area and the competition we face, see \"Item 1  -  Business  -  Market Area\" and \"Item 1  -  Competition.\". Our success depends on hiring and retaining certain key personnel.. Our performance largely depends on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. We rely on key personnel to manage and operate our business, including major revenue generating functions such as loan and deposit generation. The loss of key staff may adversely affect our ability to maintain and manage these functions effectively, which could negatively affect our revenues. In addition, loss of key personnel could result in increased recruiting and hiring expenses, which could cause a decrease in our net income. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees.. Our business may be adversely affected by an increasing prevalence of fraud and other financial crimes.. Our loans to businesses and individuals and our deposit relationships and related transactions are subject to exposure to the risk of loss due to fraud and other financial crimes. Nationally, reported incidents of fraud and other financial crimes have increased. We have also experienced losses due to apparent fraud and other financial crimes. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent such losses, losses may still occur.. Managing reputational risk is important to attracting and maintaining customers, investors and employees.. Threats to our reputation can come from many sources, including adverse sentiment about financial institutions generally, unethical practices, employee misconduct, failure to deliver minimum standards of service or quality, compliance deficiencies, and questionable or fraudulent activities of our customers. We have policies and procedures in place to protect our reputation and promote ethical conduct, but these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. Negative publicity regarding our business, employees, or customers, with or without merit, may result in the loss of customers, investors and employees, costly litigation, a decline in revenues and increased governmental regulation.. System failure or breaches of our network security could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other liabilities.. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from physical theft,. 37. Table of Contents. fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event, as well as from security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Computer break-ins, phishing and other disruptions could also jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us and may cause existing and potential customers to refrain from doing business with us. Although we, with the help of third-party service providers, intend to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures to prevent such damage, our security measures may not be successful. In addition, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms we and our third-party service providers use to encrypt and protect customer transaction data. A failure of such security measures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. It is possible that a significant amount of time and money may be spent to rectify the harm caused by a breach or hack. While we have general liability insurance and cyber liability insurance, there are limitations on coverage as well as dollar amount. Furthermore, cyber incidents carry a greater risk of injury to our reputation. Finally, depending on the type of incident, banking regulators can impose restrictions on our business and consumer laws may require reimbursement of customer loss.. Our risk management framework may not be effective in mitigating risk and reducing the potential for significant losses.. Our risk management framework is designed to minimize risk and loss to us. We seek to identify, measure, monitor, report and control our exposure to risk, including strategic, market, liquidity, compliance and operational risks. While we use a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and mitigation techniques, these techniques are inherently limited because they cannot anticipate the existence or future development of currently unanticipated or unknown risks. Recent economic conditions and heightened legislative and regulatory scrutiny of the financial services industry, among other developments, have increased our level of risk. Accordingly, we could suffer losses as a result of our failure to properly anticipate and manage these risks."
