[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The risk factors discussed below are factors that we believe could significantly impact our business, if they occur. These factors could cause results to differ materially from our historical results or our future expectations.. Risk Factors Related to our Business. Our long-term success depends on the availability of lots and land that meet our land investment criteria.. The availability of lots and land that meet our investment and marketing standards depends on a number of factors outside of our control, including land availability in general, competition with other homebuilders and land buyers, credit market conditions, legal and government agency processes and regulations, inflation in land prices, zoning, our ability and the costs to obtain building permits, the amount of impact fees, property tax rates and other regulatory requirements. If suitable lots or land becomes less available, or the cost of attractive land increases, it could reduce the number of homes that we may be able to build and sell and reduce our anticipated margins, each of which could adversely impact our financial results. The availability of suitable land assets could also affect the success of our strategic initiative to increase the number of actively selling communities and to maintain profitability.. Shortages in the availability of subcontract labor may delay construction schedules and increase our costs.. We conduct our construction operations only as a general contractor. Virtually all design, architectural, construction and development work is performed by unaffiliated third-party consultants and subcontractors. As a consequence, we depend on the continued availability of and satisfactory performance by these consultants and subcontractors for the design and construction of our communities and homes and to provide related materials. The cost of labor may also be adversely affected by shortages of qualified trades people, changes in laws and regulations relating to union activity and changes in immigration laws and trends in labor migration. Throughout the homebuilding cycle, we have experienced shortages of skilled labor in certain markets, which led to increased labor costs. We cannot be assured that in the future there will be a sufficient supply or satisfactory performance by these unaffiliated third-party consultants and subcontractors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Decreases in mortgage availability and increases in interest rates may make purchasing a home more difficult and may negatively impact the ability to sell new and existing homes.. In general, housing demand is adversely affected by a lack of availability of mortgage financing and increases in interest rates. Most of our buyers finance their home purchases through our mortgage joint venture or third-party lenders providing mortgage financing. If mortgage interest rates increase and, consequently, the ability of prospective buyers to finance home purchases is adversely affected, our home sales and cash flow may be adversely affected and the impact may be material. These risks can also indirectly impact us to the extent our customers need to sell their existing home to purchase a new home from us if the potential buyers of our customer's homes are unable to obtain mortgage financing. Although long-term interest rates currently remain near historically low levels, it is difficult to predict future increases or decreases in market interest rates.. Mortgage lenders are subject to underwriting standards by the regulatory authorities which oversee them. Regulations, standards, rules and requirements, as and when implemented, could restrict the availability of loans and/or increase the costs to borrowers to obtain such loans. While lending requirements have loosened in the past couple of years, mortgage lending underwriting standards are more restrictive than in the previous homebuilding cycle, potentially limiting the number of buyers able to obtain a mortgage. The FHA insures mortgage loans that generally have lower credit requirements and is an important source for financing some of our home sales. Changes or restrictions in FHA programs may negatively affect the availability or affordability of FHA financing. Financing through programs offered by the VA, USDA and other certain housing finance agencies are subject to changes in regulations, lending standards and government funding levels. There can be no assurance that these programs will continue to be available or that they will be as accommodating as they currently are. Continued legislative and regulatory actions and more stringent underwriting standards could have a material adverse effect on our business if certain buyers are unable to obtain mortgage financing. A prolonged tightening of the financial markets could also negatively impact our business.. 15. Expirations, amendments or changes to tax laws, incentives or credits currently available to us and our homebuyers may negatively impact our business.. Significant changes to existing tax laws that currently benefit our homebuyers may result in an increase in the total cost of home ownership and may make the purchase of a home less attractive to our buyers. Many homeowners receive substantial tax benefits in the form of tax deductions against their personal taxable income for mortgage interest and property tax payments and the loss or reduction of these deductions would affect most homeowners' net cost of owning a home. If federal or state governments further change income tax laws by eliminating, limiting or substantially reducing these or other associated income tax benefits or by altering tax rates, the after-tax cost of owning a home could increase substantially, which could adversely impact demand for and/or selling prices of our homes, and the effect on our consolidated financial statements could be material. Also, federal or state governments have in the past provided for substantial benefits in the form of tax credits for buyers of new or used homes.. Currently, under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, the (\"Tax Act\") the federal government enacted new limits on, and reductions to, certain itemized tax deductions such as mortgage interest and state and local taxes for individuals that may reduce some of the benefits of home ownership, which could have an indirect impact on our operations. The Tax Act also enacted new limits and reductions to certain corporate tax deductions such as interest expense, which may have an impact on our operations. Also, we recently benefited from the availability of the IRC §45L new energy efficient homes credit through the end of 2016 . Subsequent to December 31, 2017, legislation to retroactively extend this tax credit for the single year of 2017 was signed by the President, however it is uncertain whether an extension or similar tax credit will be adopted for any future years. These energy tax credits provided us a significant benefit and reduced our effective income tax rate in 2015 and 2016.. Our future operations may be adversely impacted by high inflation.. We, like other homebuilders, may be adversely affected during periods of high inflation, mainly from higher land, construction, labor and materials costs. Also, higher mortgage interest rates may significantly affect the affordability of mortgage financing to prospective buyers. Inflation could increase our cost of financing, materials and labor and could cause our financial results or profitability to decline. Traditionally, we have attempted to pass cost increases on to our customers through higher sales prices. Although inflation has not historically had a material adverse effect on our business, sustained increases in material costs have recently had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on our business if we are unable to correspondingly increase home sale prices.. If our current strategic initiatives are not successful, it could have negative consequences on our operations, financial position and cash flows.. We have traditionally focused our marketing, community and home designs, and product offerings on the first- and second-move-up buyer. As a result of changing demographics and trends, we have shifted our strategy and have undertaken actions to align our pricing, product and community offerings to include a focus on entry-level and first move-up homes based on our belief that there will be a resurgence of first-time buyers. We have invested significant efforts to align our community layouts, lot sizes and product designs to include more homes targeted to first time buyers. If there is not a resurgence of first-time and first move-up buyers or our entry-level home offerings are not attractive to our customers, it could have negative consequences on our operations, financial position and cash flows.. If home prices decline, potential buyers may not be able to sell their existing homes, which may negatively impact our sales.. As a homebuilder, we are subject to market forces beyond our control. In general, housing demand is impacted by the affordability of housing. Many homebuyers need to sell their existing homes in order to purchase a new home from us, and a weakness in the home resale market could adversely affect that ability. Declines in home prices could have an adverse effect on our homebuilding business margins and cash flows.. High cancellation rates may negatively impact our business; some home cancellations are with homebuyers that have refundable deposits.. Our backlog reflects the number and value of homes for which we have entered into non-contingent sales contracts with customers but have not yet delivered those homes. While we may accept sales contracts on a contingent basis in limited circumstances, they are not included in our backlog until the contingency is removed. In connection with the purchase of a home, our policy is to generally collect a deposit from our customers, although typically, this deposit reflects a small percentage of the total purchase price, and due to local regulations, the deposit may, in certain circumstances, be fully or partially refundable prior to closing. If the prices for our homes in a given community decline, our neighboring competitors reduce their sales prices (or increase their sales incentives), interest rates increase, the availability of mortgage financing tightens or there is a downturn in local, regional or national economies, homebuyers may elect to cancel their home purchase contracts with us.. 16. Significant cancellations have previously had, and could in the future have, a material adverse effect on our business as a result of lost sales revenue and the accumulation of unsold housing inventory.. A reduction in our sales absorption levels may force us to incur and absorb additional community-level costs.. We incur certain overhead costs associated with our communities, such as marketing expenses, real estate taxes, and costs associated with the upkeep and maintenance of our model and sales complexes. If our sales absorptions pace decreases and the time required to close out our communities is extended, we would likely incur additional overhead costs, which would negatively impact our financial results. Additionally, we typically incur various land development improvement costs for a community prior to the commencement of home construction. Such costs include infrastructure, utilities, taxes and other related expenses. Reduction in home absorption rates increases the associated holding costs and extends our time to recover such costs. Declines in the homebuilding market may also require us to evaluate the recoverability of costs relating to land acquired more recently.. If we are unable to successfully compete in the highly competitive housing industry, our financial results and growth may suffer.. The housing industry is highly competitive. We compete for sales in each of our markets with national, regional and local developers and homebuilders, resale of existing homes and, to a lesser extent, condominiums and available rental housing. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and some may have lower costs than we do. Competition among homebuilders of all sizes is based on a number of interrelated factors, including location, reputation, amenities, design, innovation, quality and price. Competition is expected to continue and may become more intense, and there may be new entrants in the markets in which we currently operate and in markets we may enter in the future and our industry may also experience some consolidations. If we are unable to successfully compete, our financial results and growth could suffer.. The value of our real estate inventory may decline, leading to impairments and reduced profitability.. During the last homebuilding cycle downturn, and in certain isolated circumstances afterward, we had to impair many of our real-estate assets to fair-value, incurring large impairment charges which negatively impacted our financial results. Another decline in the homebuilding market may require us to re-evaluate the value of our land holdings and we could incur additional impairment charges, which would decrease both the book value of our assets and stockholders' equity.. Reduced levels of sales may cause us to re-evaluate the viability of existing option contracts, resulting in a potential termination of these contracts which may lead to impairment charges.. In the prior homebuilding cycle, a significant portion of our lots were controlled under option contracts. Such options generally require a cash deposit that will be forfeited if we do not exercise the option or proceed with the purchase(s). During the prior downturn, we forfeited significant amounts of deposits and wrote off significant amounts of related pre-acquisition costs related to projects we no longer deemed feasible, as they were not projected to generate acceptable returns. Another downturn in the homebuilding market may cause us to re-evaluate the feasibility of our optioned projects (the number of optioned projects and the associated amount of pre-acquisition dollars is significantly reduced from the prior cycle), which may result in us forfeiting deposits, which would reduce our assets and stockholders' equity.. Our business may be negatively impacted by natural disasters or extensive weather.. Our homebuilding operations include operations in Texas, California, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Georgia and Florida. These markets occasionally experience extreme weather conditions such as tornadoes and/or hurricanes, earthquakes, wildfires, flooding, landslides, prolonged periods of precipitation, sinkholes and other natural disasters. We do not insure against some of these risks. For example, during 2017, two of our largest volume markets were impacted by hurricanes. These occurrences could damage or destroy some of our homes under construction or our building lots, which may result in uninsured or underinsured losses. We could also suffer significant construction delays or substantial fluctuations in the pricing or availability of building materials due to such disasters. Any of these events could cause a decrease in our revenue, cash flows and earnings.. 17. We are subject to home warranty and construction defect claims arising in the ordinary course of business, which may lead to additional reserves or expenses.. Home warranty and construction defect claims are common in the homebuilding industry and can be costly. We sometimes encounter construction defect issues that may be alleged to be widespread within a single community or geographic area and we are currently managing two such issues, one regarding possible foundation design issues within a single community and the other regarding an alleged widespread stucco application issue in one geographic area. In order to account for future potential warranty and construction defect obligations, we establish a warranty reserve in connection with every home closing. Additionally, we maintain general liability insurance and generally require our subcontractors to provide a warranty and indemnity to us and insurance coverage for liabilities arising from their work; however, we cannot be assured that our warranty reserves and insurance and those subcontractors warranties, insurance and indemnities will be adequate to cover all warranty and construction defect claims for which we may be held responsible. For example, we may be responsible for applicable self-insured retentions, and certain claims may not be covered by insurance or may exceed applicable coverage limits.. A major safety incident relating to our operations could be costly in terms of potential liabilities and reputational damage.. Building sites are inherently dangerous and pose certain inherent health and safety risks to construction workers. Due to health and safety regulatory requirements and the number of projects we work on, health and safety performance is important to the success of our development and construction activities. Any failure in health and safety performance may result in penalties for non-compliance with relevant regulatory requirements, and a failure that results in a major or significant health and safety incident is likely to be costly and could expose us to claims resulting from personal injury. Such a failure could generate significant negative publicity and have a corresponding impact on our reputation, our relationships with relevant regulatory agencies or governmental authorities, and our ability to attract customers and employees, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We and our subcontractors carry insurance that covers some of these risks.. Our income tax provision and other tax liabilities may be insufficient if taxing authorities initiate and are successful in asserting tax positions that are contrary to our position.. In the normal course of business, we are audited by various federal, state and local authorities regarding income tax matters. Significant judgment is required to determine our provision for income taxes and our liabilities for federal, state, local and other taxes. We have one state tax audit unresolved at this time. Although we believe our approach to determining the appropriate tax treatment is supportable and in accordance with tax laws and regulations and relevant accounting literature, it is possible that the final tax authority will take a tax position that is materially different than ours. As each audit is conducted, adjustments, if any, are recorded in our consolidated financial statements in the period determined. Such differences could have a material adverse effect on our income tax provision or benefit, or other tax reserves, in the reporting period in which such determination is made and, consequently, on our results of operations, financial position and/or cash flows for such period.. Our ability to acquire and develop raw or partially finished lots may be negatively impacted if we are unable to secure performance bonds.. In connection with land development work on our raw or partially finished land, we are oftentimes required to provide performance bonds or other assurances for the benefit of the respective municipalities or governmental authorities. These performance bonds provide assurance to the beneficiaries that the development will be completed, or that in case we do not perform, that funds from the bonds are available for the municipality or governmental agency to finish such work. In the future, additional performance bonds may be difficult to obtain, or may become difficult to obtain on terms that are acceptable to us. If we are unable to secure such required bonds, progress on affected projects may be delayed or halted or we may be required to expend additional cash or provide other forms of surety or security for such obligations, such as letters of credit, which may adversely affect our financial position and ability to grow our operations.. The loss of key personnel may negatively impact us.. Our success largely depends on the continuing services of certain key employees and our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. We have employment agreements with certain key employees who we believe possess valuable industry knowledge, experience and leadership abilities that would be difficult in the short term to replicate. The loss of the services of such key employees could harm our operations and business plans.. 18. Failure to comply with laws and regulations by our employees or representatives may harm us.. We are required to comply with applicable laws and regulations that govern all aspects of our business including land acquisition, development, home construction, labor and employment, mortgage origination, title and escrow operations, sales and warranty. It is possible that individuals acting on our behalf could intentionally or unintentionally violate some of these laws and regulations. Although we endeavor to take immediate action if we become aware of such violations, we may incur fines or penalties as a result of these actions and our reputation with governmental agencies and our customers may be damaged. Further, other acts of bad judgment may also result in negative publicity and/or financial consequences.. Our lack of geographic diversification could adversely affect us if the homebuilding industry in our markets decline.. We have operations in Texas, Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia and Tennessee. Although we have, in recent years, expanded our operations to new markets, our geographic diversification is still limited and could adversely impact us if the homebuilding business in our current markets should decline, since we may not have a balancing opportunity in other geographic regions.. We experience fluctuations and variability in our operating results on a quarterly basis and, as a result, our historical performance may not be a meaningful indicator of future results.. We historically have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, variability in home sales and results of operations on a quarterly basis. As a result of such variability, our historical performance may not be a meaningful indicator of future results. Factors that contribute to this variability include:. • timing of home deliveries and land sales;. • the changing composition and mix of our asset portfolio;. • delays in construction schedules due to adverse weather, acts of God, reduced subcontractor availability and governmental requirements and restrictions;. • conditions of the real estate market in areas where we operate and of the general economy;. • the cyclical nature of the homebuilding industry; and. • costs and availability of materials and labor.. Our level of indebtedness may adversely affect our financial position and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations.. The homebuilding industry is capital intensive and requires significant up-front expenditures to secure land and pursue development and construction on such land. Accordingly, we incur substantial indebtedness to finance our homebuilding activities. At December 31, 2017, we had approximately $1.3 billion of indebtedness and $170.7 million of cash and cash equivalents. If we require working capital greater than that provided by operations, our current liquidity position, and our current $550.3 million available to be drawn under our credit facility, we may be required to seek additional capital in the form of equity or debt financing from a variety of potential sources, including bank financing and securities offerings. There can be no assurance we would be able to obtain such additional capital on terms acceptable to us, if at all. The level of our indebtedness could have important consequences to our stockholders, including the following:. • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes could be impaired;. • we could have to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on our indebtedness, which would reduce the funds available to us for other purposes such as land and lot acquisition,  development and construction activities;. • we have a moderate level of indebtedness and a lower volume of cash and cash equivalents than some of our competitors, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage and reduce our flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing conditions in our industry, including increased competition; and. • we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business than some of our competitors.. We expect to generate cash flow to pay our expenses and to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness with cash flow from operations or from existing working capital. Our ability to meet our expenses thus depends, to a large extent, on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions in the markets where we operate and pressure from competitors. If we do not have sufficient funds, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets or borrow additional funds. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to do so on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from pursuing any of these alternatives.. 19. Our ability to obtain third-party financing may be negatively affected by any downgrade of our credit rating from a rating agency. We consider the availability of third-party financing to be a key component of our long-term strategy to grow our business either through acquisitions or through internal expansion. As of December 31, 2017, our credit ratings were BB, Ba2, and BB by Standard and Poor's Financial Services, Moody's Investor Services and Fitch Ratings, respectively, the three primary rating agencies. Any downgrades from these ratings may impact our ability to obtain future additional financing, or to obtain such financing on terms that are favorable to us and therefore, may adversely impact our future operations.. We may not be successful in future expansion and integrating acquisitions.. We may consider growth or expansion of our operations in our current markets or in other areas of the country. We may not be successful in future expansion and integrating future acquisitions. Our expansion into new or existing markets could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and/or profitability as we may incur costs to integrate new markets into our operations in advance of those operations providing a right-sized impact to our bottom line. The magnitude, timing and nature of any future expansion will depend on a number of factors, including suitable additional markets and/or acquisition candidates, the negotiation of acceptable terms, our financial capabilities, the size of the new business, and general economic and business conditions. New acquisitions may result in the incurrence of additional debt. Acquisitions also involve numerous risks, including difficulties and/or delays in the assimilation and integration of the acquired company's operations, the incurrence of unanticipated liabilities or expenses, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, risks of entering markets in which we have limited or no direct experience and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company. In our recent acquisitions in Nashville, Atlanta and Greenville, the integration of the operations was slower than originally anticipated. It cannot be assured that integration delays for future acquisitions will not occur, and such delays could have an impact on our operations and our financial results.. We are subject to extensive government regulations that could cause us to incur significant liabilities or restrict our business activities.. Regulatory requirements could cause us to incur significant liabilities and costs and could restrict our business activities. We are subject to local, state and federal statutes and rules regulating labor and employment matters, relationships with trade partners and their employees, certain developmental matters, as well as building and site design. We are subject to various fees and charges of government authorities designed to defray the cost of providing certain governmental services and improvements. We may be subject to additional costs and delays or may be precluded entirely from building projects because of \"no-growth\" or \"slow-growth\" initiatives, building permit ordinances, building moratoriums, or similar government regulations that could be imposed in the future due to health, safety, climate, welfare or environmental concerns. We must also obtain licenses, permits and approvals from government agencies to engage in certain activities, the granting or receipt of which are beyond our control and could cause delays in our homebuilding projects.. We are also subject to a variety of local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning the protection of health and the environment. Environmental laws or permit restrictions may result in project delays, may cause substantial compliance and other costs and may prohibit or severely restrict development in certain environmentally sensitive regions or geographic areas. Environmental regulations can also have an adverse impact on the availability and price of certain raw materials, such as lumber.. Our wholly-owned title company, Carefree Title Agency, provides title insurance and closing settlement services for our homebuyers. The title and settlement services provided by Carefree Title Agency are subject to various regulations, including regulation by state banking and insurance regulations. Potential changes to federal and state laws and regulations could have the effect of limiting our activities or how our joint venture conducts its operations and this could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our mortgage joint venture is engaged in mortgage broker activities and provides services both to our customers and other homebuyers. The mortgage industry remains under intense scrutiny and continues to face increasing regulation at the federal, state and local level. Although we do not originate mortgages, we are directly or indirectly subject to certain of these regulations. In addition, if we are determined to have violated federal or state regulations, we face the loss of our licenses or other required approvals or we could be subject to fines, penalties, civil actions or we could be required to suspend our activities, each of which could have an adverse effect on our reputation, results and operations.. Legislation relating to energy and climate change could increase our costs to construct homes.. There is a variety of new legislation being enacted, or considered for enactment at the federal, state and local level relating to energy and climate change. This legislation relates to items such as carbon dioxide emissions control and building codes that impose energy efficiency standards. New building code requirements that impose stricter energy efficiency standards. 20. could significantly increase our cost to construct homes. As climate change concerns continue to grow, legislation and regulations of this nature are expected to continue and become more costly to comply with. Similarly, energy-related initiatives affect a wide variety of companies throughout the United States and the world and because our operations are heavily dependent on significant amounts of raw materials, such as lumber, steel, and concrete, they could have an indirect adverse impact on our operations and profitability to the extent the manufacturers and suppliers of our materials are burdened with expensive cap and trade and similar energy-related regulations.. Our ability to build energy-efficient technologies at a profitable price point may be replicated by other builders in the future, which could reduce our competitive advantage.. We believe we currently have a competitive advantage over many of the other production homebuilders by virtue of our energy efficiency technologies. Our communities offer a high level of energy-saving features included in the base price of our homes, and most of our home plans are engineered to facilitate the incorporation of optional solar features to further optimize energy savings.  If other builders are able to replicate our energy efficient technologies and offer them at a similar price point, it could diminish our competitive advantage in the marketplace.. Information technology failures and data security breaches could harm our business.. We use information technology and other computer resources to carry out important operational and marketing activities as well as maintain our business records. Many of these resources are provided to us and/or maintained on our behalf by third-party service providers pursuant to agreements that specify certain security and service level standards. Although we and our service providers employ what we believe are adequate security, disaster recovery and other preventative and corrective measures, our ability to conduct our business may be impaired if these resources are compromised, degraded, damaged or fail, whether due to a virus or other harmful circumstance, intentional penetration or disruption of our information technology resources by a third party, natural disaster, hardware or software corruption or failure or error (including a failure of security controls incorporated into or applied to such hardware or software), telecommunications system failure, service provider error or failure, intentional or unintentional personnel actions (including the failure to follow our security protocols), or lost connectivity to our networked resources.. A significant and extended disruption in the functioning of these resources could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers, sales, result in the unintended public disclosure or the misappropriation of proprietary, personal and confidential information (including information about our homebuyers, employees and business partners), and require us to incur significant expense to address and resolve these kinds of issues. The release of confidential information may also lead to litigation or other proceedings against us by affected individuals and/or business partners and/or by regulators, and the outcome of such proceedings, which could include penalties or fines, could have a material and adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements and reputation. In addition, the costs of maintaining adequate protection against such threats, depending on their evolution, pervasiveness and frequency and/or government-mandated standards or obligations regarding protective efforts, could continue to increase and could be material to our consolidated financial statements.. Negative publicity could adversely affect our reputation and our business, financial results and stock price.. Unfavorable media related to our industry, company, brand, personnel, operations, business performance, or prospects may impact our stock price and the performance of our business, regardless of its accuracy or inaccuracy. The speed at which negative publicity is disseminated has increased dramatically through the use of electronic communication, including social media outlets, websites, \"tweets\", and blogs. Our success in maintaining and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to this rapidly changing media environment. Adverse publicity or negative commentary from any media outlets could damage our reputation and reduce the demand for our homes, which would adversely affect our business.. Any of the above risk factors could have a material adverse effect on any investment in our bonds and common stock. As a result, investors could lose some or all of their investment.. 21. Special Note of Caution Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. In passing the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (\"PSLRA\"), Congress encouraged public companies to make \"forward-looking statements\" by creating a safe-harbor to protect companies from securities law liability in connection with forward-looking statements. We intend to qualify both our written and oral forward-looking statements for protection under the PSLRA.. The words \"believe,\" \"expect,\" \"anticipate,\" \"forecast,\" \"plan,\" \"intend,\" \"may,\" \"will,\" \"should,\" \"could,\" \"estimate,\" and \"project\" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date the statement was made. All statements we make other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements within the meaning of that term in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. Forward-looking statements in this Annual Report include statements concerning our belief that we have ample liquidity; our goals and strategies and the anticipated benefits relating thereto; our intentions and the expected benefits and advantages of our product and land positioning strategies, including with respect to our focus on the first-time and first move-up buyer; the benefits of and our intentions to use options to acquire land; our exposure to supplier concentration risk; our delivery of substantially all of our backlog existing as of year end; our positions and our expected outcome relating to litigation in general; our intentions to not pay dividends; growth in the first-time buyer segment that are seeking entry-level homes; the timing and extent of new community openings in 2018; that we may repurchase our debt and equity securities; our non-use of derivative financial instruments; expectations regarding our industry and our business into 2018 and beyond, and that we expect our cash expenditures will exceed our cash generated by operations as we continue to expand our business; the demand for and the pricing of our homes; our land and lot acquisition strategy (including that we will redeploy cash to acquire well-positioned finished lots and that we may participate in joint ventures or opportunities outside of our existing markets if opportunities arise and the benefits relating thereto); that we may expand into new markets; the availability of suppliers; that we may seek additional debt or equity capital; our expectation that existing guarantees, letters of credit and performance and surety bonds will not be drawn on; the sufficiency of our insurance coverage and warranty reserves; the sufficiency of our capital resources to support our business strategy; the impact of new accounting standards and changes in accounting estimates; trends and expectations concerning sales prices, sales orders, cancellations, construction costs, gross margins, land costs and profitability and future home inventories; our future cash needs; the impact of seasonality; and our future compliance with debt covenants and actions we may take with respect thereto.. Important factors currently known to management that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements, and that could negatively affect our business are discussed above in this report under the heading \"Risk Factors.\". Forward-looking statements express expectations of future events. All forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain as they are based on various expectations and assumptions concerning future events and they are subject to numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those projected. Due to these inherent uncertainties, the investment community is urged not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. In addition, we undertake no obligations to update or revise forward-looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated events or changes to projections over time, except as required by law."
