[1] "Item 1A.   Risk Factors. The Company's operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those described below, which could adversely affect its business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of its common and capital stock.. Because the Bank intends to continue to increase its commercial loans, its credit risk may increase.. The Bank intends to increase its originations of commercial loans, including working capital lines of credit, equipment financing, healthcare and medical receivables, documentary letters of credit and standby letters of credit. These loans generally have more risk than one-to four-family residential mortgage loans and commercial loans secured by real estate. Since repayment of commercial loans depends on the successful management and operation of the borrower's businesses, repayment of such loans can be affected by adverse conditions in the local and national economy. In addition, commercial loans generally have a larger average size as compared with other loans such as residential loans, and the collateral for commercial loans is generally less readily-marketable. The Bank plans to increase its origination of these loans could result in a material adverse impact on its financial condition and results of operations. An adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose the Bank to significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one-to-four-family residential mortgage loan or a commercial real estate loan.. A large portion of the Bank's loan portfolio is unseasoned. Errors in judging the collectability of unseasoned loans may lead to additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, which would reduce profits.. The Bank's net loan portfolio has grown 73.0%, during the 3-year period ended December 31, 2017. At December 31, 2017, commercial real estate, commercial and industrial, and consumer loans made up 73.0%, 23.9% and 3.1% of the loan portfolio, respectively. At that same date, the average age of commercial real estate, commercial and industrial and multifamily loans was 2.6 years, 1.7 years and 1.3 years, respectively. It is difficult to assess the future performance of the Bank's loan portfolio due to the recent origination of many of its loans. As a result, the Bank may experience more non-performing and delinquent loans than anticipated, which would adversely affect results of operations.. The Bank must maintain and follow high loan underwriting standards to grow safely.. The Bank's ability to grow its assets safely depends on maintaining disciplined and prudent underwriting standards and ensuring that its relationship managers and lending personnel follow those standards. The weakening of these standards for any reason, such as to seek higher yielding loans, or a lack of discipline or diligence by employees in underwriting and monitoring loans may result in loan defaults, foreclosures and additional charge-offs and may necessitate that the Bank significantly increase its allowance for loan losses, any of which could adversely net income. As a result, the Bank's business, results of operations, financial condition or future prospects could be adversely affected.. A substantial portion of the Bank's loan portfolio consists of multifamily real estate loans and commercial real estate loans, which have a higher degree of risk than other types of loans.. Multifamily and commercial real estate loans are often larger and involve greater risks than other types of loans. Because payments on such loans are often dependent on the successful operation or development of the property or business involved, repayment of such loans is often more sensitive than other types of loans to adverse conditions in the real estate market or the general business climate and economy. Accordingly, a downturn in the real estate market and a challenging business and economic environment may increase the Bank's risk related to multifamily and commercial real estate loans. Unlike residential mortgage loans, which generally are made on the basis of the borrowers' ability to make repayment from their employment and other income and which are secured by real property whose value tends to be more easily ascertainable, multifamily and commercial real estate loans typically are made on the basis of the borrowers' ability to make repayment from the cash flow of the commercial venture. If the cash flow from business operations is reduced, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired. In addition, due to the larger average size of each multifamily and commercial real estate loan as compared with other loans such as residential loans, as well as collateral that is generally less readily-marketable, losses incurred on a small number of multifamily and commercial real estate loans could have a material adverse impact on the Bank's financial condition and results of operations.. 24. TABLE OF CONTENTS. In addition, commercial real estate loan concentration is an area that has experienced heightened regulatory focus. Under CRE Guidance issued by the FRB, the OCC and the FDIC, banks with holdings of commercial real estate, land development, construction, and certain multi-family loans in excess of certain thresholds must employ heightened risk management practices. These loans are also subject to written policies that are required by applicable regulations and that establish certain limits and standards. Any limitations on the Company's commercial real estate, multi-family or construction lending, as a result of its need to comply with applicable regulations, regulatory guidance or supervisory expectations or otherwise, could have an adverse impact on its net interest income and could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations.. As a business operating in the financial services industry, the Bank's business and operations may be adversely affected in numerous and complex ways by weak economic conditions.. The Bank's business and operations, which primarily consist of lending money to customers in the form of loans, borrowing money from customers in the form of deposits and investing in securities, are sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the United States. If the U.S. economy weakens, growth and profitability from the Bank's lending, deposit and investment operations could be constrained. Uncertainty about the federal fiscal policymaking process, the medium and long-term fiscal outlook of the federal government, and future tax rates is a concern for businesses, consumers and investors in the United States. In addition, economic conditions in foreign countries, including uncertainty over the stability of the euro currency, could affect the stability of global financial markets, which could hinder U.S. economic growth. The business is also significantly affected by monetary and related policies of the U.S. federal government and its agencies. Changes in any of these policies are influenced by macroeconomic conditions and other factors that are beyond the Bank's control. Adverse economic conditions and government policy responses to such conditions could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of the Bank.. A substantial majority of the Bank's loans and operations are in New York, and therefore its business is particularly vulnerable to a downturn in the New York City economy.. Unlike larger financial institutions that are more geographically diversified, a large portion of the Bank's business is concentrated primarily in the state of New York, and in New York City in particular. A significant decline in local economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, an outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic calamities, unemployment or other factors beyond the Bank's control, would likely cause an increase in the rates of delinquencies, defaults, foreclosures, bankruptcies and losses in its loan portfolio. As a result of this lack of diversification in its loan portfolio, a downturn in the local economy generally and real estate market specifically could significantly reduce the Bank's profitability and growth and adversely affect its financial condition.. Interest rate shifts may reduce net interest income and otherwise negatively impact the Bank's financial condition and results of operations.. The majority of the Company's banking assets are monetary in nature and subject to risk from changes in interest rates. Like most financial institutions, the Bank's earnings and cash flows depend, to a great extent, upon the level of its net interest income (the difference between the interest income earned on loans), investments, other interest earning assets, and interest paid on interest bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Changes in interest rates can increase or decrease net interest income, because different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, and at different times, to market interest rate changes.. When interest bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly, or to a greater degree than interest earning assets in a period, an increase in interest rates could reduce net interest income. Similarly, when interest earning assets mature or reprice more quickly, or to a greater degree than interest bearing liabilities, falling interest rates could reduce net interest income. Additionally, an increase in interest rates may, among other things, reduce the demand for loans and the Bank's ability to originate loans and decrease loan repayment rates. A decrease in the general level of interest rates may affect the Bank through, among other things, increased prepayments on its loan portfolio and increased competition for deposits. Accordingly,. 25. TABLE OF CONTENTS. changes in the level of market interest rates affect the Bank's net yield on interest earning assets, loan origination volume and overall results. Although the Bank's asset-liability management strategy is designed to control and mitigate exposure to the risks related to changes in market interest rates, those rates are affected by many factors outside of its control, including governmental monetary policies, inflation, deflation, recession, changes in unemployment, the money supply, international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets.. The Bank's smaller size makes it more difficult for it to compete.. The Bank's smaller size makes it more difficult to compete with other financial institutions which are generally larger and can more easily afford to invest in the marketing and technologies needed to attract and retain customers. Because the Bank's principal source of income is the net interest income earned on loans and investments after deducting interest paid on deposits and other sources of funds, the Bank's ability to generate the revenues needed to cover expenses and finance such investments is limited by the size of its loan and investment portfolios. In addition, the Bank competes with many larger financial institutions and other financial companies who operate in the cash management solutions business, and is therefore, not always able to offer new products and services as quickly as its competitors. Lower earnings also make it more difficult to offer competitive salaries and benefits. As a smaller institution, it is also disproportionately affected by the continually increasing costs of compliance with new banking and other regulations.. The Bank relies heavily on its executive management team and other key employees, and could be adversely affected by the unexpected loss of their services.. The Bank's success depends in large part on the performance of its key personnel, as well as on its ability to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified senior and middle management and other skilled employees. Competition for employees is intense, and the process of locating key personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to execute its business plan may be lengthy. The Bank may not be successful in retaining its key employees, and the unexpected loss of services of one or more of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on its business because of their skills, knowledge of primary markets, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. If the services of any key personnel should become unavailable for any reason, the Bank may not be able to identify and hire qualified persons on acceptable terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects of the Bank.. Further, the Bank's ability to retain key officers and employees may be impacted by legislation and regulation affecting the financial services industry. In 2016, the FRB and several other federal financial regulators revised and re-proposed rules to implement Section 956 of the Dodd-Frank Act Section 956 directed regulators to jointly prescribe regulations or guidelines prohibiting incentive-based payment arrangements, or any feature of any such arrangement, at covered financial institutions, which includes a bank or bank holding company with $1 billion or more in assets, such as the Company and the Bank, that encourage inappropriate risks by providing excessive compensation or that could lead to a material financial loss. Further, the rule imposes enhanced risk management controls and governance and internal policy and procedure requirements with respect to incentive compensation. Accordingly, the Bank may be at a disadvantage to offer competitive compensation compared to other financial institutions or companies in other industries, which may not be subject to the same requirements.. The Bank may not be able to grow and if it does, it may have difficulty managing that growth.. The Bank's ability to grow depends, in part, upon its ability to expand its market share, successfully attract core deposits, and identify loan and investment opportunities as well as opportunities to generate fee-based income. The Bank can provide no assurance that it will be successful in increasing the volume of loans and deposits at acceptable levels and upon terms it finds acceptable. The Bank also can provide no assurance that it will be successful in expanding its operations organically or through strategic acquisition while managing the costs and implementation risks associated with this growth strategy.. The Bank expects to grow in the number of employees and customers and the scope of its operations, but it may not be able to sustain its historical rate of growth or continue to grow its business at all. Its success will depend upon the ability of its officers and key employees to continue to implement and improve. 26. TABLE OF CONTENTS. operational and other systems, to manage multiple, concurrent customer relationships, and to hire, train and manage employees. In the event that the Bank is unable to perform all these tasks and meet these challenges effectively, including continuing to attract core deposits, its operations, and consequently its earnings, could be adversely impacted.. Any future acquisitions will subject the Company to a variety of risks, including execution risks, failure to realize anticipated transaction benefits, and failure to overcome integration risks, which could adversely affect growth and profitability.. The Company plans to grow its businesses organically. Although, currently, there are no plans, arrangements or understandings to make any acquisitions in the near-term, from time to time in the future the Company may consider acquisition opportunities that it believes support its businesses and enhances profitability. In the event that it does pursue acquisitions, the Company may have difficulty executing on acquisitions and may not realize the anticipated benefits of any transaction it may complete. Generally, any acquisition of target financial institutions, branches or other banking assets will require approval by, and cooperation from, a number of governmental regulatory agencies, possibly including the FRB, NYSDFS, and the FDIC. Such regulators could deny the application, which would restrict growth, or the regulatory approvals may not be granted on terms that are acceptable to the Company.. As to any acquisition that the Company completes, it may fail to realize some or all of the anticipated transaction benefits if the integration process takes longer or is more costly than expected or otherwise fails to meet expectations.. In addition, acquisition activities could be material to the Company's business and involve a number of risks, including the following:. •. incurring time and expense associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and negotiating potential transactions, resulting in the Company's attention being diverted from the operation of its existing business;. •. using inaccurate estimates and judgments to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution or assets;. •. projected results may vary significantly from actual results;. •. intense competition from other banking organizations and other inquirers for acquisitions;. •. potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of banks and businesses the Company acquires;. •. unexpected asset quality problems;. •. the time and expense required to integrate the operations and personnel of the combined businesses;. •. experiencing higher operating expenses relative to operating income from the new operations;. •. creating an adverse short-term effect on the results of operations;. •. losing key employees and customers as a result of an acquisition that is poorly received;. •. significant problems relating to the conversion of the financial and customer data of the entity;. •. integration of acquired customers into the Company's financial and customer product systems;. •. risk of assuming businesses with internal control deficiencies; or. •. risks of impairment to goodwill or other than temporary impairment of investment securities.. Depending on the condition of any institution or assets or liabilities that the Company may acquire, that acquisition may, at least in the near term, adversely affect its capital and earnings and, if not successfully integrated with the organization, may continue to have such effects over a longer period. The Company may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with potential acquisitions, and any acquisition considered will be subject to prior regulatory approval.. 27. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Additionally, acquisitions may involve the payment of a premium over book and market values and, therefore, may result in some dilution of the Company's book value and net income per common share in connection with any future transaction. The Company's inability to overcome these risks could have a material adverse effect on its profitability, return on equity and return on assets, its ability to implement its business strategy and enhance stockholder value, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in card network fees could impact operations.. From time to time, the card networks increase the fees (known as interchange fees) that are charged to acquirers and that the Bank charges to its merchants. It is possible that competitive pressures will result in the Bank absorbing a portion of such increases in the future, which would its increase costs, reduce profit margin and adversely affect its business and financial condition. In addition, the card networks require certain capital requirements. An increase in the required capital level would further limit the use of capital for other purposes.. Changes in card network rules or standards could adversely affect the Bank's business.. In order to provide its debit card and cash management solutions, the Bank is a member of the Visa and Mastercard networks. As such, it is subject to card network rules that could subject it to the assessment of a variety of fines or penalties. The termination of its membership or any changes in card network rules or standards, including interpretation and implementation of existing rules or standards, could increase the cost of operating its merchant servicer business or limit its ability to provide debit card and cash management solutions to or through its customers, and could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Bank's business could suffer if there is a decline in the use of prepaid cards as a payment mechanism or if there are adverse developments with respect to the prepaid financial services industry in general.. As the prepaid financial services industry evolves, consumers may find prepaid financial services to be less attractive than traditional or other financial services. Consumers might not use prepaid financial services for any number of reasons, including the general perception of the industry. If consumers do not continue or increase their usage of prepaid cards, including making changes in the way prepaid cards are loaded, the Bank's operating revenues and prepaid card deposits may remain at current levels or decline. Any projected growth for the industry may not occur or may occur more slowly than estimated. If consumer acceptance of prepaid financial services does not continue to develop or develops more slowly than expected or if there is a shift in the mix of payment forms, such as cash, credit cards, traditional debit cards and prepaid cards, away from the Bank's products and services, it could have a material adverse effect on the Bank's financial position and results of operations.. The Bank is subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, customer or employee fraud and data processing system failures and errors.. Employee errors and employee and customer misconduct could subject the Bank to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and have a material adverse impact on its reputation. Misconduct by its employees could include concealing unauthorized activities, engaging in improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of customers or improper use of confidential information. It is not always possible to prevent employee errors and misconduct, and the precautions the Bank takes to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Employee errors could also subject the Bank to financial claims for negligence.. The Bank maintains a system of internal controls and insurance coverage to mitigate against operational risks, including data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. If internal controls fail to prevent or detect an occurrence, or if any resulting loss is not insured or exceeds applicable insurance limits, it could have a material adverse impact on the Bank's business, financial condition and results of operations.. If the allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, earnings could decrease.. Loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of their loans, and the collateral securing the payment of their loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. The Bank may experience. 28. TABLE OF CONTENTS. significant credit losses, which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results. Various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of the loan portfolio are made, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, management reviews the loans and the loss and delinquency experience and evaluates economic conditions.. The determination of the appropriate level of allowance is subject to judgment and requires the Bank to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which are subject to material changes. If assumptions prove to be incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not cover probable incurred losses in the loan portfolio at the date of the financial statements. Significant additions to the allowance would materially decrease net income. Non-performing loans may increase and non-performing or delinquent loans may adversely affect future performance. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review the allowance for loan losses, the policies and procedures the Bank uses to determine the level of the allowance and the value attributed to nonperforming loans or to real estate acquired through foreclosure. Such regulatory agencies may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any significant increase in allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition. See \"Risk Factors<U+2009> - <U+2009>The FASB has recently issued an accounting standard update that will result in a significant change in how the Company recognizes credit losses and may have a material impact on its financial condition or results of operations.\". Changes in the valuation of the Bank's securities portfolio could hurt profits and reduce stockholders' equity.. The Bank's securities portfolio may be impacted by fluctuations in market value, potentially reducing accumulated other comprehensive income and/or earnings. Fluctuations in market value may be caused by changes in market interest rates, lower market prices for securities and limited investor demand. Management evaluates securities for other-than-temporary impairment on a quarterly basis, with more frequent evaluation for selected issues. If this evaluation shows impairment to the actual or projected cash flows associated with one or more securities, a potential loss to earnings may occur. Changes in interest rates can also have an adverse effect on the Bank's financial condition, as its available-for-sale securities are reported at their estimated fair value and, therefore, are impacted by fluctuations in interest rates. The Company increases or decreases stockholders' equity by the amount of change in the estimated fair value of the available-for-sale securities, net of taxes. Declines in market value could result in other-than-temporary impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on net income and capital levels. Refer to \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations<U+2009> - <U+2009>Investments.\". The Bank may not be able to adequately measure and limit the credit risk associated with its loan portfolio, which could adversely affect its profitability.. The principal economic risk associated with each class of loans is the creditworthiness of the borrower, which is affected by the strength of the relevant business market segment, local market conditions, and general economic conditions. Additional factors related to the credit quality of commercial loans include the quality of the management of the business and the borrower's ability both to properly evaluate changes in the supply and demand characteristics affecting the Bank's market for products and services, and to effectively respond to those changes. Additional factors related to the credit quality of commercial real estate loans include tenant vacancy rates and the quality of management of the property. A failure to effectively measure and limit the credit risk associated with the loan portfolio could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Changes in economic conditions could cause an increase in delinquencies and nonperforming assets, including loan charge-offs, which could depress net income and growth.. The Bank's loan portfolio includes many real estate secured loans, demand for which may decrease during economic downturns as a result of, among other things, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values and, a slowdown in housing. If negative economic conditions develop in the New York market or the United States as a whole, the Bank could experience higher delinquencies and loan. 29. TABLE OF CONTENTS. charge-offs, which would adversely affect its net income and financial condition. Furthermore, to the extent that real estate collateral is obtained through foreclosure, the costs of holding and marketing real estate collateral, as well as the ultimate values obtained from disposition, could reduce earnings and adversely affect the Bank's financial condition.. The Bank operates in a highly competitive industry and faces significant competition from other financial institutions and financial services providers, which may decrease it growth or profits.. Consumer and commercial banking as well as cash management solutions are highly competitive industries. The Bank's market area contains not only a large number of community and regional banks, but also a significant presence of the country's largest commercial banks. The Bank competes with other state and national financial institutions, as well as savings and loan associations, savings banks and credit unions, for deposits and loans. In addition, it competes with financial intermediaries, such as consumer finance companies, specialty finance companies, commercial finance companies, mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, securities firms, mutual funds, and several government agencies, as well as major retailers, all actively engaged in providing various types of loans and other financial services, including cash management solutions. The Bank also faces significant competition from many larger institutions. Some of these competitors may have a longer history of successful operations nationally and in the New York market area, greater ties to businesses, expansive banking relationships, more established depositor bases, fewer regulatory constraints, and lower cost structures than the Bank does. Competitors with greater resources may possess an advantage through their ability to maintain numerous banking locations in more convenient sites, conduct more extensive promotional and advertising campaigns, or operate a more developed technology platform. Due to their size, many competitors may offer a broader range of products and services, as well as better pricing for certain products and services than the Bank can offer. Further, increased competition among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions may adversely affect the Bank's ability to market its products and services.. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory, and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms, and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting), and merchant banking.. The Bank's ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including:. •. the ability to develop, maintain, and build upon long-term customer relationships based on quality service and market knowledge;. •. the ability to attract and retain qualified employees to operate its business effectively;. •. the ability to expand its market position;. •. the scope, relevance, and pricing of products and services that are offered to meet customer needs and demands;. •. customer satisfaction with the Bank's level of service; and. •. industry and general economic trends.. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken the Company's competitive position, which could adversely affect its growth and profitability, which, in turn, could harm its business, financial condition, and results of operations.. A lack of liquidity could adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. Liquidity is essential to the Bank's business. It relies on its ability to generate deposits and effectively manage the repayment and maturity schedules of loans to ensure that there is adequate liquidity to fund its operations. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on liquidity. The Bank's most important source of funds is deposits. Deposit balances can decrease when customers perceive alternative investments as providing a better risk/return tradeoff, which are strongly influenced by such external factors as the direction of interest rates,. 30. TABLE OF CONTENTS. local and national economic conditions and competition for deposits in the markets the Bank serves. If customers move money out of bank deposits and into other investments such as money market funds, the Bank would lose a relatively low-cost source of funds, which would increase its funding costs and reduce net interest income. Any changes made to the rates offered on deposit products to remain competitive with other financial institutions may also adversely affect profitability and liquidity. Further, the demand for the deposit products offered may be reduced due to a variety of factors such as demographic patterns, changes in customer preferences, reductions in consumers' disposable income, the monetary policy of the FRB, regulatory actions that decrease customer access to particular products, or the availability of competing products.. Other primary sources of funds consist of cash flows from operations, maturities and sales of investment securities, and proceeds from the issuance and sale of equity securities to investors. Additional liquidity is provided by the ability to borrow from the FHLB of New York. The Company also has an available line of credit with FRBNY discount window. The Bank also may borrow funds from third-party lenders, such as other financial institutions. The Bank's access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance or capitalize its activities, or on terms that are acceptable, could be impaired by factors that affect the Bank directly or the financial services industry or economy in general, such as disruptions in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry. The Bank's access to funding sources could also be affected by a decrease in the level of its business activity as a result of a downturn in markets or by one or more adverse regulatory actions against it.. Any decline in available funding could adversely impact the Bank's ability to originate loans, invest in securities, meet expenses, or to fulfill obligations such as repaying borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands, any of which could have a material adverse impact on its liquidity, business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Bank's ability to maintain its reputation is critical to the success of its business, and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect its performance.. The Bank is a community bank, and reputation is one of the most valuable components of its business. As such, the Bank strives to conduct its business in a manner that enhances its reputation. This is done, in part, by recruiting, hiring, and retaining employees who share the Bank's core values of being an integral part of the communities it serves, delivering superior service to and caring about its customers. If the Bank's reputation is negatively affected by the actions of its employees or for any other reason, its business, and therefore, its operating results may be materially adversely affected. Further, negative public opinion can expose it to litigation and regulatory action as it seeks to implement its growth strategy, which would adversely affect the business, financial condition and results of operations of the Company.. The Bank has lower lending limits and different lending risks than certain of its larger, more diversified competitors.. The Bank is a community banking institution that provides banking services to the local communities in the market areas in which it operates, and therefore, its ability to diversify its economic risks is limited by its own local markets and economies. The Bank lends, primarily, to individuals and small and medium-sized businesses, which may expose it to greater lending risks than those of banks that lend to larger, better-capitalized businesses with longer operating histories. In addition, the Bank's legally mandated lending limits are lower than those of certain of its competitors that have greater capital. Lower lending limits may discourage borrowers with lending needs that exceed these limits from doing business with the Bank. The Bank may try to serve such borrowers by selling loan participations to other financial institutions; however, this strategy may not succeed.. The Bank faces risks related to its operational, technological and organizational infrastructure.. The Bank's ability to grow and compete is dependent on its ability to build or acquire the necessary operational and technological infrastructure and to manage the cost of that infrastructure as it expands. Similar to other large corporations, operational risk can manifest itself in many ways, such as errors related to failed or inadequate processes, faulty or disabled computer systems, fraud by employees or outside persons and exposure to external events. In addition, the Bank is heavily dependent on the strength and. 31. TABLE OF CONTENTS. capability of its technology systems, which are used, both, to interface with customers and manage internal financial and other systems. The Bank's ability to develop and deliver new products that meet the needs of its existing customers and attract new ones depends on the functionality of its technology systems. Additionally, the Bank's ability to run its business in compliance with applicable laws and regulations is dependent on these infrastructures.. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The Bank's future success will depend in part upon its ability to address the needs of its clients by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy client demands for convenience as well as to provide secure electronic environments and create additional efficiencies in its operations as it continues to grow and expand its market area. The Bank continuously monitors its operational and technological capabilities and makes modifications and improvements when it believes it will be cost effective to do so. In some instances, it may build and maintain these capabilities internally. In connection with implementing new operational and technology enhancements or products in the future, the Bank may experience certain operational challenges (e.g. human error, system error, incompatibility, etc.), which could lead to significant costs to remedy any such challenges in a timely manner; and therefore, result in not fully realizing the anticipated benefits from such new technology. Many of the Bank's larger competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in operational and technological infrastructure and have a significantly greater investment in operational and technological infrastructure. As a result, competitors may be able to offer additional or more convenient products compared to those that the Bank will be able to provide, which would put it at a competitive disadvantage. Accordingly, the Bank may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services, or be successful in marketing such products and services to its clients, which could impair growth and profitability.. The Bank also outsources some of its operational and technological infrastructure, including modifications and improvements to these systems, to third parties. If these third-party service providers experience difficulties, fail to comply with banking regulations or terminate their services and if the Bank is unable to replace them with other service providers, its operations could be interrupted. If an interruption were to continue for a significant period of time, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially. Even if the Bank were able to replace the third-party providers, it may be at a higher cost, which could adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. The Bank also face risk from the integration of new infrastructure platforms and/or new third party providers of such platforms into its existing businesses.. A failure in the Bank's operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could impair its liquidity, disrupt its businesses, result in the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, damage its reputation and cause financial losses.. The Bank's business, and in particular, the debit card and cash management solutions business, is partially dependent on its ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex, across numerous and diverse markets. These transactions, as well as the information technology services provided to clients, often must adhere to client-specific guidelines, as well as legal and regulatory standards. Due to the breadth of the Bank's client base and geographical reach, developing and maintaining its operational systems and infrastructure is challenging, particularly as a result of rapidly evolving legal and regulatory requirements and technological shifts. The Bank's financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and facilities and those of the third-party service providers upon which it depends may fail to operate properly or become disabled. This could be a result of events such as a spike in transaction volume, cyber-attack or other unforeseen catastrophic events, which are wholly or partially beyond the control of the Company, and may adversely affect its ability to process these transactions or provide services.. The occurrence of fraudulent activity, breaches or failures of its information security controls or cybersecurity-related incidents could have a material adverse effect on the Bank's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Bank's operations rely on its computer systems, networks and third party providers for the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other sensitive customer information. Under. 32. TABLE OF CONTENTS. various federal and state laws, the Bank is responsible for safeguarding such information. Ensuring that the collection, use, transfer and storage of personal information complies with all applicable laws and regulations can increase costs.. Although the Bank takes protective measures to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information across all geographic and product lines, and endeavor to modify these protective measures as circumstances warrant, the nature of the threats continues to evolve. As a result, its computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data (including confidential client information), account takeovers, unavailability of service, computer viruses or other malicious code, cyber-attacks and other events that could have an adverse security impact. Despite the defensive measures taken to manage internal technological and operational infrastructure, these threats may originate externally from third parties such as foreign governments, organized crime and other hackers, and outsource or infrastructure-support providers and application developers, or may originate internally from within the organization. Furthermore, the Bank may not be able to ensure that all of its clients, suppliers, counterparties and other third parties have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information that they exchange with us, particularly where such information is transmitted by electronic means. Given the increasingly high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they can be discovered and rectified. In addition, the increasing reliance on technology systems and networks and the occurrence and potential adverse impact of attacks on such systems and networks, both generally and in the financial services industry, have enhanced government and regulatory scrutiny of the measures taken by companies to protect against cyber-security threats. In particular, NYSDFS implemented heightened cybersecurity regulations in March, 2017. As these threats and government and regulatory oversight of associated risks continue to evolve, the Company may be required to expend additional resources to enhance or expand upon the security measures it currently maintains.. The networks and systems of the Bank, its customers and certain third-party partners, such as its online banking or reporting systems, execute transactions and maintain information pertaining to the Bank and its customers. The secure maintenance and transmission of confidential information, as well as execution of transactions over these systems, are essential to protect the Bank and its customers against fraud and security breaches and to maintain its clients' confidence. In infrequent case, breaches of information security resulting from the intentional or unintentional acts by those having or gaining access to the Bank's systems or its customers', employees' or counterparties' confidential information, have occurred and may occur again. In addition, increases in criminal activity levels and sophistication, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries, and vulnerabilities in third-party technologies (including browsers and operating systems) or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology, processes and controls that the Bank uses to prevent fraudulent transactions and protect Bank, customer and underlying transaction data. The Bank cannot be certain that the security measures taken, including those taken by the processors, to protect this sensitive data will be successful or sufficient to protect against all current and emerging threats designed to breach its systems or those of processors. Although the Bank has developed, and continues to invest in, systems and processes that are designed to detect and prevent security breaches and cyber-attacks, a breach of its systems or those of processors could result in: losses to the Bank and its customers; loss of business and/or customers; damage to its reputation; the incurrence of additional expenses (including the cost of notification to consumers, credit monitoring and forensics, and fees and fines imposed by the card networks); disruption to its business; an inability to grow its online services or other businesses; additional regulatory scrutiny or penalties, or the exposure to civil litigation and possible financial liability<U+2009> - <U+2009>any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Bank's business, financial condition and results of operations.. If the Bank's enterprise risk management framework is not effective at mitigating risk and loss, it could suffer unexpected losses and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. The Bank's enterprise risk management framework seeks to achieve an appropriate balance between risk and return, which is critical to optimizing stockholder value. The Bank has established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which it is subject, including credit, liquidity, operational, regulatory compliance and reputational risks. However, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to these risk management strategies as. 33. TABLE OF CONTENTS. there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that have not been appropriately anticipated or identified. If the Bank's risk management framework proves ineffective, it could suffer unexpected losses and its business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Changes in accounting standards could materially impact the Company's financial statements.. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") or the SEC may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Company's financial statements. Such changes may result in it being subject to new or changing accounting and reporting standards. In addition, the bodies that interpret the accounting standards (such as banking regulators, outside auditors or management) may change their interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. These changes may be beyond the Company's control, can be hard to predict, and can materially impact how it records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, the Company could be required to apply a new or revised standard retrospectively, or apply an existing standard differently, also retrospectively, in each case resulting in it needing to revise or restate prior period financial statements.. The Bank could be subject to environmental risks and associated costs on its foreclosed real estate assets, which could materially and adversely affect it.. A material portion of Bank's loan portfolio is comprised of loans collateralized by real estate. There is a risk that hazardous or toxic waste could be discovered on the properties that secure these loans. If the Bank acquires such properties as a result of foreclosure, it could be held responsible for the cost of cleaning up or removing this waste, and this cost could exceed the value of the underlying properties and materially and adversely affect it.. The Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be adversely affected by the highly regulated environment and the laws and regulations that govern its operations, corporate governance, executive compensation and accounting principles, or changes in any of them.. As a bank holding company, the Company is subject to extensive examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies that govern almost all aspects of its operations. These laws and regulations are not intended to protect the Company's stockholders. Rather, these laws and regulations are intended to protect customers, depositors, the DIF and the overall financial stability of the U.S economy. These laws and regulations, among other matters, prescribe minimum capital requirements, impose limitations on the business activities in which the Company can engage, limit the dividend or distributions that the Bank can pay to it, restrict the ability of institutions to guarantee its debt, and impose certain specific accounting requirements that may be more restrictive and may result in greater or earlier charges to earnings or reductions in capital than generally accepted accounting principles would require. Compliance with these laws and regulations is difficult and costly, and changes to these laws and regulations often impose additional compliance costs. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations, even if the failure follows good faith effort or reflects a difference in interpretation, could subject the Company to restrictions on its business activities, fines and other penalties, the commencement of informal or formal enforcement actions against us, and other negative consequences, including reputational damage, any of which could adversely affect its business, financial condition, results of operations, capital base and the price of its securities. Further, any new laws, rules and regulations could make compliance more difficult or expensive.. Likewise, the Company operates in an environment that imposes income taxes on its operations at both the federal and state levels to varying degrees. Strategies and operating routines have been implemented to minimize the impact of these taxes. Consequently, any change in tax legislation could significantly alter the effectiveness of these strategies.. The net deferred tax asset reported on the Company's balance sheet generally represents the tax benefit of future deductions from taxable income for items that have already been recognized for financial reporting purposes. The bulk of these deferred tax assets consists of deferred loan loss deductions, deferred compensation deductions and unrealized losses on available-for-sale securities. The net deferred tax asset is measured by applying currently-enacted income tax rates to the accounting period during which the tax benefit is expected to be realized. As of December 31, 2017, the Company's net deferred tax asset $4.4 million.. 34. TABLE OF CONTENTS. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted the Tax Act, which includes significant changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system including: a federal corporate rate reduction from 35% to 21%; limitations on the deductibility of interest expense and executive compensation; creation of BEAT, a new minimum tax; and the transition of U.S. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a modified territorial tax system. The Tax Act resulted in a one-time U.S. tax expense of<U+2009> $1.6 million. A majority of the provisions in the Tax Act are effective January 1, 2018.. Federal and state regulators periodically examine the Bank's business, and the Company may be required to remediate adverse examination findings.. The FRB and the NYSDFS, periodically examine the Bank's business, including compliance with laws and regulations. If, as a result of an examination, a federal banking agency were to determine that the Bank was in violation of any law or regulation; or that the Bank's financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity or other aspects of operations had become unsatisfactory, it may take a number of different remedial actions as it deems appropriate. These actions include the power to enjoin \"unsafe or unsound\" practices, require affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, issue an administrative order that can be judicially enforced, direct an increase in capital, restrict the Bank's growth, assess civil monetary penalties against officers or directors, and remove officers and directors. If it is concluded that such conditions cannot be corrected or there is an imminent risk of loss to depositors, the Bank's deposit insurance could be terminated, and it could be placed into receivership or conservatorship. If the Bank become subject to any regulatory actions, there could be a material adverse impact on its business, results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects.. Legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future may increase the Company's costs and impact its business, governance structure, financial condition or results of operations.. The Company operates in a highly regulated industry with multiple regulators and is subject to a changing regulatory environment. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, imposed higher capital requirements on bank holding companies, changed the base for FDIC insurance assessments from a bank's deposit base to its average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity, permanently raised the current standard deposit insurance limit to $250,000, and expanded the FDIC's authority to raise insurance premiums. The Dodd-Frank Act established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (\"CFPB\") as an independent entity within the FRB, which has broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement authority over consumer financial products and services, including deposit products, prepaid cards, residential mortgages, home-equity loans and credit cards and contains provisions on mortgage-related matters, such as steering incentives, determinations as to a borrower's ability to repay and prepayment penalties. Although the applicability of certain elements of the Dodd-Frank Act is limited to institutions with more than $10 billion in assets, there can be no guarantee that such applicability will not be extended in the future or that regulators or other third parties will not seek to impose such requirements on institutions with less than $10 billion in assets, such as the Bank.. Compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations has and will continue to result in additional operating and compliance costs that could have a material adverse effect on business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects of the Company.. While most of the changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act that impact the Company have been implemented or are expected to follow a known trajectory, new changes under the Trump administration, including their nature, timing and impact, cannot yet be determined with any degree of certainty. Federal and state regulatory agencies also frequently adopt changes to their regulations or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied. Certain aspects of current or proposed regulatory or legislative changes to laws applicable to the financial industry, if enacted or adopted, could expose it to additional costs, including increased compliance costs; impact the profitability of the Company's business activities; require more oversight; or change certain of its business practices, including the ability to offer new products, obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfactory interest spreads. These changes may also require the Company to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes to operations and could have an adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations.. 35. TABLE OF CONTENTS. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and recent rulemaking, the Company is subject to more stringent capital requirements.. In July 2013, the U.S. federal banking authorities approved new regulatory capital rules implementing the Basel III regulatory capital reforms effecting certain changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The new regulatory capital requirements are generally applicable to all U.S. banks as well as to bank and saving and loan holding companies, other than \"small bank holding companies\" (generally bank holding companies with consolidated assets of less than $1.0 billion). The new regulatory capital rules not only increase most of the required minimum regulatory capital ratios, but also introduce a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio and the concept of a capital conservation buffer. The new regulatory capital rules also expand the current definition of capital by establishing additional criteria that capital instruments must meet to be considered additional Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital. In order to be a \"well-capitalized\" depository institution under the new regime, an institution must maintain a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.5% or more; a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8% or more; a total capital ratio of 10% or more; and a leverage ratio of 5% or more. A BHC institution must maintain a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8% or more; and a total capital ratio of 6% or more. Banks and BHCs must also maintain a capital conservation buffer consisting of common equity Tier 1 capital. The new regulatory capital rules became effective as applied to the Company on January 1, 2015 with a phase-in period that generally extends through January 1, 2019 for certain of the changes. Previously, as a BHC with less than $1 billion in consolidated assets, the Company was not subject to consolidated capital requirements. During the course of 2016, the Company's consolidated assets exceeded $1 billion and, as a result, the Company is now subject to capital requirements with a phase-in period that generally extends through January 1, 2019 for certain of the changes, as discussed above.. The Company may need to raise additional capital in the future to gain sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet regulatory requirements, its commitments and business needs, which could include the possibility of financing acquisitions. The Company's ability to raise additional capital depends on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, including investor perceptions regarding the banking industry, market conditions and governmental activities, and the Company's financial condition and performance. The failure to meet applicable regulatory capital requirements, including the minimum capital requirements established by the FRB, could result in one or more of the regulators placing limitations or conditions on the Company's activities, including its growth initiatives, or restricting the commencement of new activities; which could affect customer and investor confidence, the Company's costs of funds and FDIC insurance costs, its ability to pay dividends on common stock, its ability to make acquisitions, and its business, results of operations and financial conditions, generally.. The Company is subject to the Community Reinvestment Act and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to material penalties.. The CRA, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act and other fair lending laws and regulations impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. With respect to the Bank, the NYSDFS, FRB, the United States Department of Justice and other federal and state agencies are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. A successful regulatory challenge to an institution's performance under the CRA or fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including the required payment of damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, imposition of restrictions on mergers and acquisitions activity and restrictions on expansion. Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution's performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation. Such actions could have a material adverse effect on business, financial condition and results of operations of the Company.. The FASB has recently issued an accounting standard update that will result in a significant change in how the Company recognizes credit losses and may have a material impact on its financial condition or results of operations.. In June 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update, \"Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326), Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments,\" which replaces the current \"incurred loss\" model for recognizing credit losses with an \"expected loss\" model referred to as the Current Expected Credit Loss (\"CECL\") model. Under the CECL model, the Company will be required to present certain. 36. TABLE OF CONTENTS. financial assets carried at amortized cost, such as loans held for investment and held-to-maturity debt securities, at the net amount expected to be collected. The measurement of expected credit losses is to be based on information about past events, including historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectability of the reported amount. This measurement will take place at the time the financial asset is first added to the balance sheet and periodically thereafter. This differs significantly from the \"incurred loss\" model required under current GAAP, which delays recognition until it is probable a loss has been incurred. Accordingly, the Company expects that the adoption of the CECL model will materially affect how it determines allowance for loan losses and could require it to significantly increase the allowance. Moreover, the CECL model may create more volatility in the level of allowance for loan losses. If the Company is required to materially increase its level of allowance for loan losses for any reason, such increase could adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations.. The new CECL standard will become effective for the Company for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2020 and for interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company is currently evaluating the impact the CECL model will have on its accounting; however, consistent with regulatory expectations set forth in interagency guidance issued at the end of 2016, it expects to recognize a one-time cumulative-effect adjustment to allowance for loan losses as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the new standard is effective. The Company cannot yet determine the magnitude of any such one-time cumulative adjustment or of the overall impact of the new standard on its financial condition or results of operations.. FDIC deposit insurance assessments may continue to materially increase in the future, which would have an adverse effect on earnings.. As an FDIC insured institution the Bank is assessed a quarterly deposit insurance premium. Failed banks nationwide have significantly depleted the insurance fund and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The FDIC has adopted a Deposit Insurance Fund Restoration Plan, which requires the FDIC's DIF to attain a 1.35% reserve ratio by December 31, 2020. As a result of this requirement, the Bank could be required to pay significantly higher premiums or additional special assessments, which would adversely affect its earnings, thereby reducing the availability of funds to pay dividends to the Company.. Monetary policies and regulations of the FRB could adversely affect the business, financial condition and results of operations of the Company.. In addition to being affected by general economic conditions, the Company's earnings and growth are affected by the policies of the FRB. An important function of the FRB is to regulate the money supply and credit conditions. Among the instruments used by the FRB to implement these objectives are open market purchases and sales of U.S. government securities, adjustments of the discount rate and changes in banks' reserve requirements against bank deposits. These instruments are used in varying combinations to influence overall economic growth and the distribution of credit, bank loans, investments and deposits. Their use also affects interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits.. The monetary policies and regulations of the FRB have had a significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. The effects of such policies upon the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations cannot be predicted.. The Bank faces a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the Federal Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering and counter terrorist financing statutes and regulations.. The BSA, the USA PATRIOT Act and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among others, to institute and maintain an effective anti-money laundering compliance program and to file reports such as suspicious activity reports and currency transaction reports. The Bank's products and services, including its debit card issuing business, are subject to an increasingly strict set of legal and regulatory requirements intended to protect consumers and help detect and prevent money laundering, terrorist financing and other illicit activities. The Bank is required to comply with these and other anti-money laundering requirements. The federal banking agencies and the U.S. Treasury Department's Financial Crimes Enforcement Network are authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of. 37. TABLE OF CONTENTS. those requirements and have recently engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts against banks and other financial services providers with the U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration and Internal Revenue Service. The Bank is also subject to increased scrutiny of compliance with the regulations administered and enforced by the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control. If the Bank violates these laws and regulations, or if its policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient, the Bank would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions, which may include restrictions on its ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of its business plan, including any acquisition plans.. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for the Bank. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. The FRB may require the Company to commit capital resources to support the Bank.. Federal law requires that a bank holding company act as a source of financial and managerial strength to its subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support such subsidiary bank. Under the \"source of strength\" doctrine, the FRB may require a bank holding company to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary bank and may charge the bank holding company with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices for failure to commit resources to a subsidiary bank. A capital injection may be required at times when the holding company may not have the resources to provide it and therefore may be required to borrow the funds or raise capital. Any loans by a holding company to its subsidiary banks are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. In the event of a bank holding company's bankruptcy, the bankruptcy trustee will assume any commitment by the holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank. Moreover, bankruptcy law provides that claims based on any such commitment will be entitled to a priority of payment over the claims of the institution's general unsecured creditors, including the holders of its note obligations. Thus, any borrowing that must be done by the Company to make a required capital injection becomes more difficult and expensive and could have an adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Bank could be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions and other third parties it relies on.. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. The Bank has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks and other institutional customers. Many of these transactions expose the Bank to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, its credit risk may be exacerbated when its collateral cannot be foreclosed upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due. Furthermore, successful operation of the debit card and cash management solutions business depends on the soundness of third party processors, clearing agents and others that the Bank relies on to conduct its merchant business. Any losses resulting from such third parties could adversely affect the business, financial condition and results of operations of the Company.. The Bank depends on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties.. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with existing and potential customers and counterparties, the Bank may rely on information provided by or on behalf of its existing and potential customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. The Bank also may rely on representations of existing and potential customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. In deciding whether to extend credit, the Bank may rely upon existing and potential customers' representations that their respective financial statements conform to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. The Bank also may rely on customer and counterparty. 38. TABLE OF CONTENTS. representations and certifications, or other auditors' reports, with respect to the business and financial condition of existing and potential customers and counterparties. The Company's financial condition, results of operations, financial reporting and reputation could be negatively affected if the Bank relies on materially misleading, false, incomplete, inaccurate or fraudulent information provided by or on behalf of existing or potential customers or counterparties.. The Company's accounting estimates and risk management processes and controls rely on analytical and forecasting techniques and models and assumptions, which may not accurately predict future events.. The Company's accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how it records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. Management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with GAAP and reflect management's judgment of the most appropriate manner to report financial condition and results. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which may be reasonable under the circumstances, yet which may result in the reporting of materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative.. Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting the Company's financial condition and results of operations. They require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions or estimates. These critical accounting policies include the allowance for loan losses and income taxes. Because of the uncertainty of estimates involved in these matters, the Company may be required to do one or more of the following: significantly increase the allowance for loan losses or sustain loan losses that are significantly higher than the reserve provided; reduce the carrying value of an asset measured at fair value; or significantly increase accrued tax liability. Any of these could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or results of operations of the Company. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\".. The Company's internal controls, disclosure controls, processes and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures are based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable (not absolute) assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of controls, processes and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls, processes and procedures could necessitate changes in those controls, processes and procedures, which may increase compliance costs, divert management attention from the business or subject the Company to regulatory actions and increased regulatory scrutiny. Any of these could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or results of operations of the Company.. The reduced disclosures and relief from certain other significant disclosure requirements that are available to emerging growth companies may result in the Company's financial statement not being comparable to the financial statements of public companies that are not allowed the same relief.. The Company is an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the JOBS Act, and it intends to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that apply to other public companies that are not \"emerging growth companies.\" The JOBS Act permits the Company an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards affecting public companies. The Company has elected to use this extended transition period, which means that its financial statements may not be comparable to the financial statements of public companies that comply with such new or revised accounting standards on a non-delayed basis."
