[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Factors Affecting Our Future Operating Results. We are subject to certain risks associated with our international operations and have a significant concentration of business in China.. We conduct business in many countries, including emerging markets in Asia, Latin America, and Eastern Europe, and these operations represent a significant portion of our sales and earnings. For example, our Chinese operations accounted for 17% of sales to external customers, approximately 30% of our global production, and 35% of total segment profit during 2017. In addition to the currency risks discussed below, international operations pose other substantial risks and problems for us, including the following:. • local tariffs and trade barriers;. • countries may revise or alter their respective legal and regulatory requirements;. • difficulties in staffing and managing local operations and/or mandatory salary increases;. • credit risks arising from financial difficulties facing local customers and distributors;. • difficulties in protecting intellectual property;. • nationalization of private enterprises which may result in the confiscation of assets, as we hold significant assets around the world in the form of property, plant, and equipment, inventory, and accounts receivable, as well as $101 million of cash at December 31, 2017 in our Chinese subsidiaries;. • restrictions on investments and/or limitations regarding foreign ownership;. • adverse tax consequences, including tax disputes, imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries;. • other uncertain local economic, political, and social conditions, including hyper-inflationary conditions or periods of low or no productivity growth; and. • credit tightening or reduction in credit availability for local customers.. We must also comply with regulations regarding the conversion and repatriation of funds earned in local currencies. For example, we need government approval to convert earnings from our operations in China into other currencies and to repatriate these funds. If we cannot comply with these or other applicable regulations, we may face increased difficulties in using cash generated in China.. We are required to comply with various import, export control, and economic sanctions laws, which may affect our transactions with certain customers, business partners, and other persons, including in certain cases dealings with or between our employees and subsidiaries. In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services, and technologies, and in other circumstances, we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting a controlled item. We follow all relevant laws and continue to do business in Russia. Sanctions imposed on business in Russia may affect the economy and our business in Russia. In addition, failure to comply with any of these regulations could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties, disruptions to our business, limitations on our ability to import and export products and services, and damage to our reputation.. Growth in emerging markets, especially China, can be volatile. While we experienced strong growth in China in 2017, we have also experienced sales declines in recent years and we may see volatility in the future.. 14. Table of Contents. We sell primarily to companies in developed countries. An economic downturn in these countries could hurt our operating results.. Most of our business is derived from companies in developed countries. Economic instability in many parts of the world, including sovereign debt levels in the European Union and the United States, continues to be a situation that we are monitoring closely. A potential financial crisis on financial institutions globally would likely have an adverse effect on the global capital markets and our business. In addition, if developed countries were to experience slow growth or recession, we could see the following effects:. • a drop in demand for our products;. • companies being unable to finance their businesses;. • difficulty in obtaining materials and supplies;. • potential devaluation and/or impairment of assets;. • difficulty in collecting accounts receivables;. • an increase in accounts receivable write-offs; and. • greater foreign exchange rate volatility affecting our profitability and cash flow.. Economic downturns or recessions adversely affect our operating results because our customers often decrease or delay capital expenditures. Customers may also purchase lower-cost products made by competitors and not resume purchasing our products even after economic conditions improve. These conditions would reduce our revenues and profitability.. Currency fluctuations affect our operating profits.. Our earnings are affected by changing exchange rates. We are most sensitive to changes in the exchange rates between the Swiss franc, euro, and U.S. dollar. We have more Swiss franc expenses than we do Swiss franc sales because we develop and manufacture products in Switzerland that we sell globally and have a number of corporate functions located in Switzerland. When the Swiss franc strengthens against our other trading currencies, particularly the U.S. dollar and euro, our earnings go down. We also have significantly more sales in the euro than we do expenses. When the euro weakens against the U.S. dollar and Swiss franc, our earnings also go down. We estimate a 1% strengthening of the Swiss franc against the euro would reduce our earnings before tax by approximately $1.6 million to $1.8 million annually.. We also conduct business throughout the world, including Asia Pacific, the United Kingdom, Eastern Europe, Latin America, and Canada. Fluctuations in these currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar can also affect our operating results. The most significant of these currency exposures is the Chinese renminbi. The impact on our earnings before tax of the Chinese renminbi weakening 1% against the U.S. dollar is a reduction of approximately $1.0 million to $1.2 million annually.. In addition to the effects of exchange rate movements on operating profits, our debt levels can fluctuate due to changes in exchange rates, particularly between the U.S. dollar, the Swiss franc, and euro. Based on our outstanding debt at December 31, 2017, we estimate that a 10% weakening of the U.S. dollar against the currencies in which our debt is denominated would result in an increase of approximately $25.9 million in the reported U.S. dollar value of our debt.. 15. Table of Contents. Concerns regarding the Eurozone debt levels and market perception concerning the instability of the euro could affect our operating profits.. We conduct business in many countries that use the euro as their currency (the Eurozone). Concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain Eurozone countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations. In addition, concerns in recent years have existed regarding the overall stability of the euro and the suitability of the euro as a single currency given the diverse economic and political circumstances in individual Eurozone countries.. These concerns could lead to the re-introduction of individual currencies in one or more Eurozone countries or, in more extreme circumstances, the possible dissolution of the euro currency entirely. Should the euro dissolve entirely, the legal and contractual consequences for holders of euro-denominated obligations would be determined by laws in effect at such time. These potential developments, or market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could adversely affect the value of our euro-denominated assets and obligations. In addition, concerns over the effect of this financial crisis on financial institutions in Europe and globally could have an adverse effect on the global capital markets and, more specifically, on the ability of our Company, our customers, suppliers, and lenders to finance their respective businesses, to access liquidity at acceptable financing costs, if at all, on the availability of supplies and materials, and on the demand for our products.. We are vulnerable to system failures and data loss risks, including those that may be related to cyber security attacks, which could harm our business.. We rely on our technology infrastructure to interact with suppliers, sell our products and services, support our customers, fulfill orders, and bill, collect, and make payments. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist or hacker attacks, malicious employees or employee negligence, computer viruses, ransomware, and other events. When we upgrade or change systems, we may suffer interruptions in service, loss of data, or reduced functionality. A significant number of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality. Despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in interruptions in our services, fraudulent loss of assets, or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, which could harm our reputation and financial condition. Our business interruption and cyber liability insurance may not be sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our services or data loss as a result of system failures.. Customers may use our products to generate or manage confidential information. Though we take steps to ensure our products are secure, it is possible customers could lose confidential information stored on our products. If a customer alleges security failures in our products cause or contribute to a loss, we could face harm to our reputation and financial condition and legal liability.. We also are in the process of implementing a program to globalize our business processes and information technology systems that includes the implementation of a Company-wide enterprise resource planning system. This has been proceeding on a staggered basis over several years with the initial go-live rollout having occurred in 2010. We have implemented the program in our Swiss, Chinese, U.K., Benelux, and certain U.S. and German operations. We estimate that we have approximately 75% of the program implemented, as measured in users. If the implementation is flawed, we could suffer interruptions in operations and customer-facing activities that could harm our reputation and financial condition or cause us to lose data, experience reduced functionality, or have delays in reporting financial information. It may take us longer to implement the program than we have planned, and the project may cost us more than we have estimated, either of which would negatively impact our ability to generate cost savings or other efficiencies. In addition, the implementation will increase our reliance on a single information technology system, which would have greater consequences should we experience a system disruption.. 16. Table of Contents. We operate in highly competitive markets, and it may be difficult for us to preserve operating margins, gain market share, and maintain a technological advantage.. Our markets are highly competitive. Many are fragmented both geographically and by application, particularly the industrial and food retailing markets. As a result, we face numerous regional or specialized competitors, many of which are well established in their markets. In addition, some of our competitors are divisions of larger companies with potentially greater financial and other resources than our own. There has also been an increase in the consolidation of precision instrument companies in recent years. Any consolidation within our market could result in competitors becoming larger and having greater financial and other resources than our own. Some of our competitors are domiciled or operate in emerging markets and may have a lower cost structure than ours. We are confronted with new competitors in emerging markets which, although relatively small in size today, could become larger companies in their home markets. Given the sometimes significant growth rates of these emerging markets, and in light of their cost advantage over developed markets, emerging market competitors could become more significant global competitors. Taken together, the competitive forces present in our markets could harm our operating margins. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive prices. Although we believe that our products and services have advantages over our competitors, we may not be able to realize and maintain these advantages.. Our ability to manufacture and deliver products and services may be disrupted.. We have key manufacturing facilities located in China, Europe, and the United States. Many of our products are developed and manufactured at single locations, with limited alternate facilities. In addition, a large portion of our products and spare parts are distributed through regional logistics centers, in which certain logistics activities are outsourced to third parties. If we experience any significant disruption in these facilities for any reason, such as strikes or other labor unrest, power interruptions, fire, earthquakes, hurricanes, or other events beyond our control, we may be unable to satisfy customer demand for our products or services and lose sales. It may be expensive to resolve these issues, even though some of these risks are covered by insurance policies. More importantly, customers may switch to competitors and may not return to us even if we resolve the interruption.. Our business would suffer if we were unable to obtain supplies of material.. We purchase most of our raw materials, components, and supplies from multiple suppliers. Some items are purchased from a limited or single source of supply, however, and disruption of these sources could affect our ability to manufacture products. Even where multiple sources of materials and components are available, the quality of the alternative materials, regulatory and contractual requirements to qualify materials for use in manufacturing, and the time required to establish new relationships with reliable suppliers could result in manufacturing delays and possible loss of sales. If we are unable to obtain materials or components for an extended time, this could damage our customer relationships and harm our financial condition or results of operations.. Our product development efforts may not produce commercially viable products in a timely manner.. If we do not introduce new products and enhancements, our products could become technologically obsolete over time, which would harm our operating results. To remain competitive, we must continue to make significant investments in research and development, sales and marketing, and customer service and support. We cannot be sure that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments. In developing new products, we may be required to make substantial investments before we can determine. 17. Table of Contents. their commercial viability. As a result, we may not be successful in developing new products and we may never realize the benefits of our research and development activities.. A prolonged downturn or additional consolidation in the pharmaceutical, food and beverage, and chemical industries could adversely affect our operating results. A reduction in the capital resources or government funding of our customers could reduce our sales.. Our products are used extensively in the pharmaceutical, food and beverage, and chemical industries. Consolidation in these industries hurt our sales in prior years. In recent years, there has been an increase in consolidation within these industries. A prolonged economic downturn or additional consolidation in any of these industries could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, the capital spending policies of our customers in these and other industries are based on a variety of factors we cannot control, including the resources available for purchasing equipment, the spending priorities among various types of equipment, and policies regarding capital expenditures. Any decrease or delay in capital spending by our customers would cause our revenues to decline and could harm our profitability. A decline in government funding of research or education could reduce some customers' ability to purchase our products.. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates or additional income tax liabilities could impact our profitability.. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various other jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to allocation of expenses among different jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates and tax obligations could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws or rates, changes in the mix of earnings by jurisdiction, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and material adjustments from tax audits.. In particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the U.S., is dependent upon our ability to generate future taxable income in the U.S. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability.. Our tax expense and tax obligations could increase as a result of a changing application of tax law.. Governments are facing greater pressure on public finances, which could lead to their more aggressively applying existing tax laws and regulations. Governments also periodically change tax laws and regulations. Any changes in corporate income tax rates or regulations, on repatriation of dividends, earnings or capital, or on transfer pricing, as well as changes in the interpretation of existing tax laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, could adversely affect our cash flow and increase our overall tax burden, which would negatively affect our profitability.. We face risks related to sales through distributors and other third parties that we do not control, which could harm our business.. We sell some products through third parties, including distributors and value-added resellers. This exposes us to various risks, including competitive pressure, concentration of sales volumes, credit risks, and compliance risks. We may rely on one or a few key distributors for a product or market, and the loss of these distributors could reduce our revenue and net earnings. Distributors may also face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm our collection of accounts receivables. Violations of the FCPA or similar anti-bribery laws by distributors or other third-party intermediaries could materially impact our business. Risks related to our use of distributors may reduce sales, increase expenses, and weaken our competitive position.. 18. Table of Contents. A terrorism attack, other geopolitical crisis, or widespread outbreak of an illness or other health issue could negatively affect our business, making it more difficult and expensive to meet our obligations to our customers, and could result in reduced demand from our customers.. Our global operations are susceptible to global events, including acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts, political instability, and natural disasters. Also, in past years a number of countries have experienced outbreaks of the H1N1 influenza (swine flu) or, in the Asia Pacific region, outbreaks of SARS and/or avian influenza (bird flu), and more recently, Ebola outbreaks in parts of Africa. Despite the implementation of certain precautions, we are susceptible to such outbreaks. As a result of such events, businesses can be shut down and individuals can become ill, quarantined, or otherwise unable to work. These events, particularly in North America, Europe, China, or other locations significant to our operations, could adversely affect general commercial activity, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business, or prospects. If our operations are curtailed, we may need to seek alternate sources of supply for services and staff and these alternate sources may be more expensive. Alternate sources may not be available or may result in delays in shipments to our customers, each of which would affect our results of operations. In addition, a curtailment of our product design operations could result in delays in the development of new products. Further, if our customers' businesses are similarly affected, they might delay or reduce purchases from us, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. We may face risks associated with future acquisitions.. We may pursue acquisitions of complementary product lines, technologies, or businesses. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in integrating the acquired operations, technologies, and products; diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and potential departures of key employees of the acquired company. If we successfully identify acquisitions in the future, completing such acquisitions may result in new issuances of our stock that may be dilutive to current owners, increases in our debt and contingent liabilities, and additional amortization expense related to intangible assets. Any of these acquisition-related risks could have a material adverse effect on our profitability.. Larger companies have identified life sciences and instruments as businesses they will consider entering, which could change the competitive dynamics of these markets. In addition, we may not be able to identify, successfully complete, or integrate potential acquisitions in the future. Even if we can do so, we cannot be sure that these acquisitions will have a positive impact on our business or operating results.. If we cannot protect our intellectual property rights, or if we infringe or misappropriate the proprietary rights of others, our operating results could be harmed.. Our success depends on our ability to obtain, maintain, and enforce patents on our technology, maintain our trademarks, and protect our trade secrets. Our patents may not provide complete protection, may expire, and competitors may develop similar products that are not covered by our patents. Our patents may also be challenged by third parties and invalidated or narrowed. We may experience a decline in sales and/or profitability if any of these things occur. Competitors sometimes seek to take advantage of our trademarks or brands in ways that may create customer confusion or weaken our brand. Improper use or disclosure of our trade secrets may still occur.. We may be sued for infringing on the intellectual property rights of others. The cost of any litigation could affect our profitability regardless of the outcome, and management attention could be diverted. If we are unsuccessful in such litigation, we may have to pay damages, stop the infringing activity, and/or. 19. Table of Contents. obtain a license. If we fail to obtain a required license, we may be unable to sell some of our products, which could result in a decline in our revenues.. Departures of key employees could impair our operations.. Key employees could leave the Company. If any key employees stopped working for us, our operations could be harmed. Important R&D personnel may leave and join competitors, which could substantially delay or hinder ongoing development projects. We have no key man life insurance policies with respect to any of our senior executives.. We may be adversely affected by environmental laws and regulations.. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations and incur expenditures in complying with environmental laws and regulations. We are currently involved in, or have potential liability with respect to, the remediation of past contamination in various facilities. In addition, some of our facilities are or have been in operation for many decades and may have used substances or generated and disposed of wastes that are hazardous or may be considered hazardous in the future. These sites and disposal sites owned by others to which we sent waste may in the future be identified as contaminated and require remediation. Accordingly, it is possible that we could become subject to additional environmental liabilities in the future that may harm our results of operations or financial condition.. We may be adversely affected by regulations and market expectations related to sourcing and our supply chain, including conflict minerals.. The SEC has adopted disclosures and reporting requirements for companies whose products contain certain minerals and their derivatives, namely tin, tantalum, tungsten, or gold, known as conflict minerals. Companies must report annually whether or not such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries and in some cases to perform extensive due diligence on their supply chains for such minerals. These requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability, and pricing of materials used in the manufacturing of our products. In addition, we have incurred additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including cost related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals used in our products. Since our supply chain is complex, the due diligence procedures that we have implemented may not enable us to ascertain with sufficient certainty the origins for these minerals or determine that these minerals are DRC conflict free, which may harm our reputation. We may also face difficulties in satisfying customers who may require that our products be certified as DRC conflict free, which could harm our relationships with these customers and/or lead to a loss of revenue. These requirements also could have the effect of limiting the pool of suppliers from which we source these minerals, and we may be unable to obtain conflict-free minerals at prices similar to the past, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our manufacturing operations and our profitability.. Future laws, regulations, or customers may make additional demands on supply chain transparency. These demands can include more transparency into the activities of our suppliers with regards to human rights and sustainable sourcing. We have significant protections in place to ensure we partner with responsible suppliers, but increased demands may cause us to incur increased supply chain costs. If we can't satisfy customers' demands, we may lose business, and if we can't meet new regulatory requirements, we may have to alter our sourcing at increased expense.. 20. Table of Contents. We may be adversely affected by failure to comply with regulations of governmental agencies or by the adoption of new regulations. Changes in political policy in the United States and certain European countries may also impact global trade or create uncertainty impacting our business.. Our products are subject to regulation by governmental agencies. These regulations govern a wide variety of activities relating to our products, including design and development, product safety, labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales, and distribution. We also operate a global business and are subject to various laws and regulations in the many markets we do business, including those relating to competition, employment and labor practices, international trade, and corruption. If we fail to comply with these regulations, or if new regulations are adopted that substantially change existing practice or impose new burdens, we may have to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution. In addition, we could be subject to investigation costs, reputational harm, fines, criminal prosecution, and other damages that could impact our profitability. Changes in political policy in the United States and certain European countries may impact global trade or create uncertainty. Recently, the United States government formally withdrew from the Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement, initiated renegotiations of the North American Free Trade Agreement, and threatened tougher trade terms with China and other countries. These actions may restrict our access to lower cost countries, cause foreign governments to consider tougher trade terms for U.S. companies, or otherwise create uncertainty in global markets. In times of uncertainty, some customers delay investments or defer normal replacement cycles, which could have an adverse impact on our sales.. We may experience impairments of goodwill or other intangible assets.. As of December 31, 2017, our consolidated balance sheet included goodwill of $539.8 million and other intangible assets of $226.7 million.. Our business acquisitions typically result in goodwill and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period amortization expense and possible impairment expense. We make estimates and assumptions in valuing such intangible assets that affect our consolidated financial statements.. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized, but are evaluated for impairment annually in the fourth quarter, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that an asset might be impaired. The evaluation is based on valuation models that estimate fair value. In preparing the valuation models, we consider a number of factors, including operating results, business plans, economic conditions, future cash flows, and transactions and market data. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and our judgment in applying them to the impairment analyses. The significant estimates and assumptions within our fair value models include sales growth, controllable cost growth, perpetual growth, effective tax rates, and discount rates. Our assessments to date have indicated that there has been no impairment of these assets.. Should any of these estimates or assumptions change, or should we incur lower-than-expected operating performance or cash flows, including from a prolonged economic slowdown, we may experience a triggering event that requires a new fair value assessment for our reporting units, possibly prior to the required annual assessment. These types of events and resulting analysis could result in impairment charges for goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets if the fair value estimate declines below the carrying value.. Our amortization expense related to intangible assets with finite lives may materially change should our estimates of their useful lives change.. 21. Table of Contents. We have debt and we may incur substantially more debt, which could affect our ability to meet our debt obligations and may otherwise restrict our activities.. We have debt and we may incur substantial additional debt in the future. As of December 31, 2017, we had total indebtedness of approximately $831.2 million, net of cash of $148.7 million. Our debt instruments allow us to incur substantial additional indebtedness.. The existence and magnitude of our debt could have important consequences. For example, it could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our debt instruments; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the amount of cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development, and other corporate requirements; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including changes in raw material costs; limit our ability to respond to business opportunities; limit our ability to borrow additional funds, which may be necessary; and subject us to financial and other restrictive covenants, which, if we fail to comply with these covenants and our failure is not waived or cured, could result in an event of default under our debt instruments.. The agreements governing our debt impose restrictions on our business.. The note purchase agreements governing our notes and the agreements governing our credit facility contain covenants imposing various restrictions on our business. These restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. The restrictions these covenants place on us include limitations on our ability to incur liens and consolidate, merge, sell, or lease all or substantially all of our assets. Our credit facility and the note purchase agreements governing our senior notes also require us to meet certain financial ratios.. Our ability to comply with these agreements may be affected by events beyond our control, including economic, financial, and industry conditions. The breach of any covenants or restrictions could result in a default under the note purchase agreements governing the senior notes and/or under our credit facility. An event of default under the agreements governing our debt would permit holders of our debt to declare all amounts owed to them under such agreements to be immediately due and payable. Acceleration of our other indebtedness may cause us to be unable to make interest payments on the senior notes and repay the principal amount of the senior notes.. The lenders under our credit agreement may be unable to meet their funding commitments, reducing the amount of our borrowing capacity.. We have a revolving credit facility outstanding under which the Company and certain of its subsidiaries may borrow up to $800 million. Our credit facility is provided by a group of 13 financial institutions, which individually have between 2% and 14% of the total funding commitment. At December 31, 2017, we had borrowings of $461.9 million outstanding under our credit facility. Our ability to borrow further funds under our credit facility is subject to the various lenders' financial condition and ability to make funds available. Even though the financial institutions are contractually obligated to lend funds, if one or more of the lenders encounters financial difficulties or goes bankrupt, such lenders may be unable to meet their obligations. This could result in us being unable to borrow the full $800 million amount available.. We make forward-looking statements, and actual events or results may differ materially from these statements because assumptions we have made prove incorrect due to market conditions in our industries or other factors.. We provide forward-looking statements both in our filings with the SEC and orally in connection with our quarterly earnings calls, including guidance on anticipated earnings per share. You should not. 22. Table of Contents. rely on forward-looking statements to predict our actual results. Our actual results or performance may be materially different than reflected in forward-looking statements because of various risks and uncertainties.. Our forward-looking statements may not be accurate or complete, and we do not intend to update or revise them in light of actual results. New risks also periodically arise. Please consider the risks and factors that could cause our results to differ materially from what is described in our forward-looking statements. See in particular \"Factors Affecting Our Future Operating Results\" and \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\". In providing guidance on our future earnings, we evaluate our budgets, strategic plans, and other factors relating to our business. We make assumptions about external factors, including the following:. • the outlook for our end markets and the global economy;. • the impact of external factors on our competition;. • the financial position of our customers;. • the estimated costs of purchasing materials;. • developments in personnel costs;. • our estimated income tax expense; and. • rates for currency exchange, particularly between the Swiss franc and the euro.. Some of these assumptions may prove to be incorrect over time. For example, although no single end-customer accounts for more than 1% of our revenues, if a number of our customers experienced significant deteriorations in their financial positions concurrently, it could have an impact on our results of operations.. Some of our key internal assumptions include the following:. • our ability to implement our business strategy;. • our ability to implement price increases as forecasted;. • the effectiveness of our sales and marketing programs such as our Spinnaker and market penetration and Field Turbo initiatives;. • the effectiveness of our programs to improve our service business, including growth, globalization, and productivity initiatives;. • our ability to develop and deliver innovative products and services;. • the continued growth of our sales in emerging markets; and. • the effectiveness of productivity and cost saving initiatives.. These internal assumptions may also prove to be incorrect over time. For example, with respect to our ability to realize our planned price increases without disturbing our customer base in core markets, in certain markets, such as emerging markets, price tends to be a more significant factor in customers' decisions to purchase our products. Furthermore, we can have no assurance that our cost reduction programs will generate adequate cost savings. Additionally, it may become necessary to take additional restructuring actions resulting in additional restructuring costs.. We believe our current assumptions are reasonable and prudent for planning purposes. However, should any of these assumptions prove to be incorrect, or should we incur lower-than-expected operating performance or cash flows, we may experience results different than our projections.. Our ability to generate and repatriate cash depends in part on factors beyond our control.. Our ability to make payments on our debt and to fund our share repurchase program, planned capital expenditures, and research and development efforts depends on our ability to generate and repatriate cash. 23. Table of Contents. in the future. This is subject to factors beyond our control, including general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, governmental, and other factors described in this section.. We cannot ensure that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We cannot ensure that we will be able to refinance any of our debt, including our credit facility and the senior notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all.. Our ability to fund our share repurchase program is also dependent on our ability to repatriate our international cash flows. Changes in governmental cash repatriation policies, restrictions, or tax laws could impair our ability to continue our share repurchase program."
