[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. MGE Energy and its subsidiaries, including MGE, operate in a market environment that involves significant risks, many of which are beyond their control. The following risk factors may adversely affect their results of operations, cash flows and market price for their publicly traded securities. While MGE Energy and MGE believe they have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting their business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect their performance or financial condition in the future.. 13. Regulatory Risk. We are subject to extensive government regulation in our business, which affects our costs and responsiveness to changing events and circumstances.. Our business is subject to regulation at the State and Federal levels. We are subject to regulation as a holding company by the PSCW. MGE is regulated by the PSCW as to its rates, terms and conditions of service; various business practices and transactions; financing; and transactions between it and its affiliates, including MGE Energy. MGE is also subject to regulation by the FERC, which regulates certain aspects of its business. The regulations adopted by the State and Federal agencies affect the manner in which we do business, our ability to undertake specified actions since pre-approval or authorization may be required, the costs of operations, and the level of rates charged to recover such costs. Our ability to attract capital is also dependent, in part, upon our ability to obtain a fair return from the PSCW.. Our utility revenues are subject to regulatory proceedings, which can affect our ability to recover, and the timing of recovery of, costs that we incur in our operations.. Our utility customer rates have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Our ability to obtain adjustments to those rates depends upon timely regulatory action under applicable statues and regulations. Rate regulation is based on providing an opportunity to recover costs that have been reasonably incurred and the ability to earn a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. However, there is no assurance that our regulators will consider all of our costs to have been reasonably incurred. In addition, our rate proceedings may not always result in rates that fully recover our costs or provide for a reasonable return on equity (ROE). Certain costs and revenues are deferred as regulatory assets and liabilities for future recovery or refund to customers, as authorized by our regulators. If recovery of regulatory assets is not approved or is no longer deemed probable, these costs would be recognized in current period expense and could materially and adversely impact on our operations and financial performance.. We could be subject to higher costs and potential penalties resulting from mandatory reliability standards.. MGE must adhere in its electric distribution system to mandatory reliability standards established by NERC. These standards cover areas such as critical infrastructure protection, emergency preparedness, facility design, and transmission operations, among others. The critical infrastructure protection standards focus on physical and access security of cyber assets, as well as incident response and recovery planning. Compliance with these standards affects operating costs, and any noncompliance can result in sanctions, including monetary penalties.. We are subject to changing environmental laws and regulations that may affect our costs and business plans.. Our subsidiaries are subject to environmental laws and regulations that affect the manner in which they conduct business, including capital expenditures, operating costs and potential liabilities. Changes and developments in these laws and evolving regulations may alter or limit our business plans, make them more costly, or expose us to liabilities for past, present or future operations.. Numerous environmental laws and regulations govern many aspects of our present and future operations, including air emissions limits and reporting; ambient air quality standards; water quality; water intake and discharges; wetlands; solid and hazardous waste; handling and disposal of hazardous substances; protection of endangered resources, such as threatened and endangered species, protection of cultural resources and archaeological sites; remediation and management of contaminated sites; and control of potential pollution from electric and gas construction sites. These evolving regulations affect us by:. ·. Introducing uncertainty into our planning and capital expenditures processes, as changes in requirements may affect the timing and choice of compliance methods and require costly revisions to prior plans and commitments.. ·. Imposing or modifying limits on the operations of our facilities in order to meet restrictions on air emissions, water use or water discharges.. ·. Requiring capital expenditures and changes in operating procedures and costs as a result of the need to install additional pollution controls or more advanced technology or equipment at new or existing facilities.. ·. Mandating increasing purchases of renewable energy, which affects the use of existing generation, and energy efficiency initiatives, which affect revenues.. 14. In addition, we face costs associated with site clean-up costs associated with prior operations. We also face costs as a result of a settlement related to the operation of the Columbia Plant, which will require additional capital expenditure and changes in operations at that generating facility.. We may be subject to future laws, regulations, or actions associated with public concern with fossil-fuel generation, greenhouse gases and the effects of global climate change.. Our subsidiaries operate or co-own electric power plants that burn fossil fuels, deliver natural gas, and deliver electricity to customers. These business activities are subject to evolving public concern regarding greenhouse gases (GHG), and legislative and regulatory action, and possible litigation, in response to that public concern. The primary greenhouse gas associated with our subsidiaries' combustion of fossil fuels, and the largest emission in our system overall, is carbon dioxide (CO2).. Our subsidiaries could incur costs from the regulation of GHG from power plants, natural gas delivery, greenhouse gases used in power distribution, and efficiencies lost during power distribution. While the current State and Federal governments are unlikely to pass comprehensive greenhouse gas legislation or regulations in the immediate future, future legislation is likely. In addition, litigation by environmental nongovernment organizations (NGOs) targeting GHG emissions from the electric power industry is also likely if the federal government fails to act on greenhouse gas initiatives. We may also incur costs associated with actions taken due to investor interest in reducing our subsidiaries' reliance on fossil fuel generation, and coal in particular. Investors may also move away from investing in fossil fuel generated electricity for reputational or perceived risk-related reasons. These matters represent uncertainties in the operation and management of our business.. We face risks associated with the passing of the new tax reform.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Act) into law. The passing of the law significantly lowers MGE's corporate tax rates and triggers a remeasurement of deferred taxes. We have reflected estimates of the impact of the Tax Act in our year-end 2017 financial results; however, those estimates could be affected by, and require subsequent adjustment as a result of, clarity and regulatory guidance that develops around the Tax Act and its implementation during 2018. Furthermore, while regulation allows us to incorporate changes in tax law into the rate-setting process, there will most likely be timing delays before realization of the changes.. We face risk for the recovery of fuel and purchased power costs.. MGE has price risk exposure with respect to the price of natural gas, electricity, coal, emission credits, and oil. MGE burns natural gas in several of its peak electric generation facilities, and in many cases, the cost of purchased power is tied to the cost of natural gas. In the event of an unexpected interruption in energy supply, whether due to equipment problems, transmission constraints or otherwise, we may incur additional costs to obtain alternative sources of energy supply, in order to meet our contractual or regulatory obligations to our customers. Under the electric fuel rules, MGE is required to defer electric fuel-related costs that fall outside a symmetrical cost tolerance band that is currently plus or minus 2% around the amount approved in its most recent rate order. Any over/under recovery of the actual costs in a year is determined in the following year and is then reflected in future billings to electric retail customers. Under the electric fuel rules, MGE is required to defer the benefit of lower costs, if its actual fuel costs fall outside the lower end of the range, and is required to defer costs, less any excess revenues, if its actual fuel costs exceed the upper end of the range. Excess revenues are defined as revenues in the year in question that provide MGE with a greater return on common equity than authorized by the PSCW in MGE's latest rate order. MGE assumes the risks and benefits of variances that are within the cost tolerance band.. Operating Risk. We are affected by weather, which affects customer demand and can affect the operation of our facilities.. The demand for electricity and gas is affected by weather. Very warm and very cold temperatures, especially for prolonged periods, can dramatically increase the demand for electricity and gas for cooling and heating, respectively, as opposed to the softening effect of more moderate temperatures. Our electric revenues are sensitive to the summer cooling season and, to a lesser extent, the winter heating season. Similarly, very cold temperatures can dramatically increase the demand for gas for heating. A significant portion of our gas system demand is driven by heating. Extreme summer conditions or storms may stress electric transmission and distribution systems, resulting in increased maintenance costs and limiting the ability to meet peak customer demand.. 15. We could be adversely affected by changes in the development, and utilization by our customers, of power generation, storage, and use technologies.. Our revenues and the timing of the recovery of our costs could be adversely affected by improvements in power generation, storage, and use technology.. Advancements in power generation technology, including commercial and residential solar generation installations and commercial micro turbine installations, are improving the cost-effectiveness of customer self-supply of electricity. Improvements in energy storage technology, including batteries and fuel cells, could also better position customers to meet their around-the-clock electricity requirements. Improvements in the energy efficiency of lighting, appliances, and equipment will also affect energy consumption by customers. Such developments could reduce customer purchases of electricity, but may not necessarily reduce our investment and operating requirements due to our obligation to serve customers, including those self-supply customers whose equipment has failed for any reason to provide the power they need whether due to inadequate on-site resources, restricted operating hours, or equipment failure. In addition, since a portion of our costs are recovered through charges based upon the volume of power delivered, reductions in electricity deliveries will affect the timing of our recovery of those costs and may require changes to our rate structures.. Changes in power generation, storage, and use technologies could have significant effects on customer behaviors and their energy consumption. Customers could engage in individual conservation efforts by voluntarily reducing their consumption of electricity through changes in energy use and through the use of more energy efficient lighting, appliances, and equipment. They could also change their consumption of electricity from us through the installation of alternative energy sources, such as roof top solar panels and micro turbines for self-supply. Customer energy conservation could adversely affect our results of operations by reducing our revenues without necessarily changing our operating costs due to our obligation to serve.. We are affected by economic activity within our service area.. Higher levels of development and business activity generally increase the numbers of customers and their use of electricity and gas. Likewise, periods of recessionary economic conditions generally adversely affect our results of operations.. Our ability to obtain an adequate supply of coal could limit our ability to operate our coal-fired facilities.. The availability of coal and the means to transport coal could:. ·. Affect our operating costs due to increased costs associated with lower levels of generation or the need for alternate supply or alternate transportation,. ·. Limit our ability to generate electricity if we are unable to arrange adequate deliveries of coal, and. ·. Result in potentially higher costs for replacement purchased power as well as potential lost market sales opportunities.. A significant portion of our electric generating capacity is dependent on coal. Demand for coal has been impacted by prevailing prices for natural gas and may affect mine performance. Consequently, we are exposed to the risk that counterparties to these contracts will not be able to fulfill their obligations. Disruption in the delivery of fuel, including disruptions as a result of transportation delays, weather, labor relations, force majeure events, or environmental regulations affecting any of these fuel suppliers, could limit our ability to generate electricity at our facilities at the desired level. Should counterparties fail to perform, or other unplanned disruptions occur, we may be forced to replace the underlying commitment at higher prices, or we may be forced to reduce generation at our coal units and replace this lost generation through additional power purchases from third parties. These factors may also affect the terms under which any of our existing coal supply or transportation agreements are renewed or replaced upon the expiration of their current terms.. Our ability to manage our purchased power costs is influenced by a number of uncontrollable factors.. We are exposed to additional purchased power costs to the extent that our power needs cannot be fully covered by the supplies available from our existing facilities and contractual arrangements. Those needs, and our costs, could be affected by:. ·. Increased demand due to, for example, abnormal weather, customer growth, or customer obligations,. ·. The inability to transmit our contracted power from its generation source to our customers due to transmission line constraints, outages, or equipment failures,. 16. ·. Reductions in the availability of power from our owned or contracted generation sources due to equipment failures, shortages of fuel or environmental limitations on operations, and. ·. Failure to perform on the part of any party from which we purchase capacity or energy, whether due to equipment failures, transmission constraints or other causes.. An unexpected change in demand or the availability of generation or transmission facilities can expose us to increased costs of sourcing electricity in the short-term market where pricing may be more volatile.. The equipment and facilities in our operational system are subject to risks which may adversely affect our financial performance.. Weather conditions, accidents, and catastrophic events can result in damage or failures of equipment or facilities and disrupt or limit our ability to generate, transmit, transport, purchase, or distribute electricity and gas. Efforts to repair or replace equipment and facilities may take prolonged periods or may be unsuccessful, or we may be unable to make the necessary improvements to our operational system, causing service interruptions. Furthermore, our electric generation facilities are interconnected with third-party transmission providers. Damages or failures of equipment or facilities, of these providers are out of MGE's control, but could also lead to service interruptions. The resulting interruption of services would result in lost revenues and additional costs. We are also exposed to the risk of accidents or other incidents that could result in damage to or destruction of our facilities or damage to persons or property. Such issues could adversely affect revenues or increase costs to repair and maintain our systems.. Our operations and confidential information are subject to the risk of cyber-attacks.. Our operations rely on sophisticated information technology systems and networks. Cyber-attacks targeting our electronic control systems used at our generating facilities and for electric and gas distribution systems, including denial of service and ransomware attacks, could result in a full or partial disruption of our operations. Any disruption of these operations could result in a loss of service to customers and loss of revenue, as well as significant expense to repair system damage and remedy security breaches.. Our business requires the collection and retention of personally identifiable information of our customers, shareholders, and employees, who expect that we will adequately protect such information. A significant theft, loss, or fraudulent use of personally identifiable information may cause our business reputation to be adversely impacted and could lead to potentially large costs to notify and protect the impacted persons. The occurrence of such an event may cause us to become subject to legal claims, fines, or penalties, any of which could adversely impact our results of operations.. The safeguards we have may not always be effective due to the evolving nature of cyber-attacks. We cannot guarantee that such protections will be completely successful in the event of a cyber-attack. If the technology systems were to fail or be breached by a cyber-attack, and not be recovered in a timely fashion, we may be unable to fulfill critical business functions and confidential data could be compromised, adversely impacting our financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on the performance of our information technology systems, the failure of which could have an adverse effect on our business and performance.. We operate in a highly engineered industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure to manage our finances, to operate our control facilities, to provide electric and gas service to our customers, and to enable compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. Our computer-based systems are vulnerable to interruption or failure due to the age of certain systems, the introduction of viruses, malware, ransomware, security breaches, fire, power loss, system malfunction, network outages and other events, which may be beyond our control. System interruptions or failures, whether isolated or more widespread, could impact our ability to provide service to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance.. Acts of terrorism could materially and adversely impact our operations and financial condition.. Facilities for electric generation, transmission, and gas distribution are subject to the risk of being potential targets of terrorist threats and activities. A terrorist act at our facilities could result in a disruption of our ability to generate, transmit, transport, purchase, or distribute electricity or natural gas. A possible attack would have additional adverse effects, including environmental ramifications, increased security and insurance costs, as well as general economic volatility or uncertainty within our service territories. The inability to maintain operational continuity and any additional costs incurred for repairing our facilities could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. 17. Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could affect our operations.. Events such as an aging workforce and retirement of key employees without appropriate replacements may lead to operating challenges and increased costs. Some of the challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge, and length of time period associated with skill development. Failure to identify qualified replacement employees could result in decreased productivity and increased safety costs. If we are unable to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, our operations could be negatively affected.. We face construction risk in connection with the completion of the Saratoga Wind Farm project.. The 66-megawatt (MW) wind farm project is subject to various risks that could cause costs to increase or delays in completion. These risks include shortages of, the inability to obtain, the cost of, and the consistency of, labor, materials and equipment; the inability of the contractors to perform under their contracts; the inability to agree to terms of contracts or disputes in contract terms; work stoppages; adverse weather conditions; the inability to obtain necessary permits in a timely manner; changes in applicable laws or regulations; adverse interpretation or enforcement of permit conditions; governmental actions; legal action; and unforeseen engineering or technology issues. If the project is over budget, we may not be able to recover those excess costs. Inability to recover excess costs, or inability to complete the project in a timely manner, could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Failure to successfully manage the implementation of our Enterprise Forward corporate initiative could adversely affect our operations.. In 2017, MGE committed to undertake a multi-year project aimed at transforming our foundational customer engagement capabilities and enabling it to be flexible in delivering new products and services as outlined in our energy 2030 framework. These objectives are expected to be accomplished through the implementation of a new customer information system, enterprise resource planning platform, along with other solutions that meet the goals of the initiative. Integrating new systems is complex, costly and time consuming. If the systems and related processes do not operate as intended, it could result in disruptions to our business as well as unrecoverable excess costs. Inability to recover excess costs, or inability to implement the project successfully and in a timely manner, could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Financial Risk. We are exposed to commodity price risk relating to our purchases of natural gas, electricity, coal and oil.. We face commodity price risk exposure with respect to our purchases of natural gas, electricity, coal, oil, and environmental allowances and risk through our use of derivatives, such as futures, forwards and swaps, to manage that commodity price risk. We could experience increased costs as a result of volatility in the market values of those commodities. We could also experience losses on our derivative contracts as a result of that market value volatility or if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these derivative contracts involves our exercise of judgment and use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts.. Interest rate movements and market performance affects our employee benefit plan costs.. Prevailing interest rates affect our assessment and determination of discount rates that are a key assumption in the determination of the costs and funding of our defined benefit pension plans and may impact the amount of expense and timing of contributions to those plans. The performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy the future obligations under our pension and postretirement benefit plans. We have significant obligations in these areas and hold significant assets in these trusts. A decline in the market value of those assets may increase our current and longer-term funding requirements for these obligations. Changes in the value of trust fund assets may affect the level of required contributions to these trusts to meet benefit obligations. Reduced benefit plan assets could result in increased benefit costs in future years and may increase the amount and accelerate the timing of required future funding contributions.. We are exposed to interest rate risk.. We are exposed to interest rate risk on our variable rate financing. Borrowing levels under commercial paper arrangements vary from period to period depending upon capital investments and other factors. Such interest rate risk means that we are exposed to increased financing costs and associated cash payments as a result of changes in the short-term interest rates.. 18. We are exposed to credit risk primarily through our regulated energy business.. Credit risk is the loss that may result from counterparty nonperformance. We face credit risk primarily through MGE's regulated energy business. Failure of contractual counterparties to perform their obligations under purchase power agreements, commodity supply arrangements or other agreements may result in increased expenses for MGE as a result of being forced to cover the shortfall in the spot or short-term market, where prices may be more volatile.. As a holding company, we are dependent on upstream cash flows from our subsidiaries for the payment of dividends on our common stock.. As a holding company, we have no operations of our own, and our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is dependent on the earnings and cash flows of our operating subsidiaries and their ability to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds to us. Prior to funding us, our subsidiaries have financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, debt service and obligations to trade creditors, and are subject to contractual and regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends.. Disruptions in the financial markets or changes to our credit ratings may affect our ability to finance at a reasonable cost and in accordance with our planned schedule.. The credit markets have experienced disruption and uncertainty in prior years. To the extent that such issues affect the ability or willingness of credit providers or investors to participate in the credit markets or particular types of investments, or affect their perception of the risk associated with particular types of investments, our cost of borrowing could be affected. We also rely on our strong credit ratings to access the credit markets. If our credit ratings are downgraded for any reason, borrowing costs could increase, potential investors could decrease, or we could be required to provide additional credit assurance, including cash collateral, to contract counterparties.. General economic conditions may affect our operating revenues and our counterparty risks.. Operational. MGE Energy's and MGE's operations are affected by local, national and worldwide economic conditions. The consequences of a prolonged period of reduced economic activity may include lower demand for energy, uncertainty regarding energy prices and the capital and commodity markets, and increased credit risk. A decline in energy consumption may adversely affect our revenues and future growth. Increased credit risk reflects the risk that our retail customers will not pay their bills in a timely manner or at all, which may lead to a reduction in liquidity and an eventual increase in bad debt expense.. Counterparty creditworthiness. Credit risk also includes the risk that trading counterparties that owe us money or product will breach their obligations. MGE's risk management policy is to limit transactions to a group of high quality counterparties. Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements. In that event, our financial results could be adversely affected and we could incur losses.. The stock market can be volatile, and various factors, could cause our stock price to decline.. The stock market has experienced, and may continue to experience, fluctuations that significantly impact the market prices of securities issued by many companies. Many factors affect the volatility and price of our common stock in addition to our operating results and prospects, including changes locally and in the broader economy affecting levels of economic activity, technological change, the level of interest rates and yields on other investments, and the effects of the other risk factors discussed in this report. Our stock price could fluctuate significantly in response to our quarterly or annual results, as well as factors affecting the broader economy that are beyond our control."
