[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. You should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in this section and elsewhere in this report or in any other of our filings with the SEC could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In evaluating us, you should consider carefully, among other things, the risks described below.. Risks Relating to Our Substantial Indebtedness. •  Our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments, including the fixed component of our rent payments to MGP, could adversely affect our operations and financial results and impact our ability to satisfy our obligations. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $13.0 billion of principal amount of indebtedness outstanding, including $373 million of borrowings outstanding and $1.1 billion of available borrowing capacity under our senior secured credit facility, and $2.3 billion and $2.1 billion of debt outstanding under the MGM China and the Operating Partnership credit facilities, respectively. In addition, the Operating Partnership has $1.9 billion of senior notes outstanding. Any increase in the interest rates applicable to our existing or future borrowings would increase the cost of our indebtedness and reduce the cash flow available to fund our other liquidity needs. We do not guarantee MGM China's or the Operating Partnership's obligations under their respective debt agreements and, to the extent MGM China or the Operating Partnership were to cease to produce cash flow sufficient to service their indebtedness, our ability to make additional investments into such entities is limited by the covenants in our existing senior secured credit facility.. In addition, our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments could have important negative consequences on us, including:. •  increasing our exposure to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. •  limiting our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry;. •  limiting our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital requirements, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other general operating requirements;. •  making it more difficult for us to make payments on our indebtedness; or. •  placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less-leveraged competitors.. Moreover, our businesses are capital intensive. For our owned, leased and managed resorts to remain attractive and competitive, we must periodically invest significant capital to keep the properties well-maintained, modernized and refurbished (and, under the master lease we are required to spend an aggregate amount of at least 1% of actual adjusted net revenues from the properties subject to the master lease on capital expenditures at those properties). Such investments require an ongoing supply of cash and, to the extent that we cannot fund expenditures from cash generated by operations, funds must be borrowed or otherwise obtained. Similarly, development projects, including our development project in Massachusetts, and acquisitions could require significant capital commitments, the incurrence of additional debt, guarantees of third-party debt, or the incurrence of contingent liabilities, any or all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. •  Current and future economic, capital and credit market conditions could adversely affect our ability to service or refinance our indebtedness and to make planned expenditures. Our ability to make payments on, and to refinance, our indebtedness and to fund planned or committed capital expenditures and investments depends on our ability to generate cash flow in the future, receive distributions from our unconsolidated affiliates or subsidiaries, including CityCenter, MGM China and the Operating Partnership, borrow under our senior secured credit facility or incur new indebtedness. If regional and national economic conditions deteriorate we could experience decreased revenues from our operations attributable to decreases in consumer spending levels and could fail to generate sufficient cash to fund our liquidity needs or fail to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt instruments. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or continue to receive distributions from our unconsolidated affiliates or subsidiaries, including CityCenter, MGM China and the Operating Partnership. We cannot assure you that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior secured credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to access the capital markets in the future to borrow additional indebtedness on terms that are favorable to us.. We have a significant amount of indebtedness maturing in 2019, and thereafter. Our ability to timely refinance and replace our indebtedness in the future will depend upon the economic and credit market conditions discussed above. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on a timely basis, we might be forced to seek alternate forms of financing, dispose of certain assets or minimize capital expenditures and other investments. There is no assurance that any of these alternatives would be available to us, if at all, on satisfactory terms, on terms that would not be disadvantageous to us, or on terms that would not require us to breach the terms and conditions of our existing or future debt agreements.. 12. •  The agreements governing our senior secured credit facility and other senior indebtedness contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquidity, and therefore could adversely affect our results of operations. Covenants governing our senior secured credit facility and certain of our debt securities restrict, among other things, our ability to:. •  pay dividends or distributions, repurchase or issue equity, prepay certain debt or make certain investments;. •  incur additional debt;. •  incur liens on assets;. •  sell assets or consolidate with another company or sell all or substantially all of our assets;. •  enter into transactions with affiliates;. •  allow certain subsidiaries to transfer assets; and. •  enter into sale and lease-back transactions.. Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. The breach of any such covenants or obligations not otherwise waived or cured could result in a default under the applicable debt obligations and could trigger acceleration of those obligations, which in turn could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements governing our long-term indebtedness. In addition, our senior secured credit facility requires us to satisfy certain financial covenants, including a maximum total net leverage ratio, a maximum first lien net leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio. Any default under our senior secured credit facility or the indentures governing our other debt could adversely affect our growth, our financial condition, our results of operations and our ability to make payments on our debt.. In addition, MGM Grand Paradise and MGM China are co-borrowers under an amended and restated credit facility and the Operating Partnership is a borrower under its senior secured credit facility, all of which contain covenants that restrict the respective borrower's ability to engage in certain transactions. In particular, these credit agreements require MGM China and the Operating Partnership to satisfy certain financial covenants and impose certain operating and financial restrictions on them and their respective subsidiaries (including, with respect to MGM China, MGM Grand Paradise). These restrictions include, among other things, limitations on their ability to pay dividends or distributions to us, incur additional debt, make investments or engage in other businesses, merge or consolidate with other companies, or transfer or sell assets.. •  We are required to pay a significant portion of our cash flows as fixed and percentage rent under the master lease, which could adversely affect our ability to fund our operations and growth, service our indebtedness and limit our ability to react to competitive and economic changes. For the second lease year commencing April 1, 2017, we were required to make annual rent payments of $662 million under the master lease. In October 2017, subsequent to MGP's acquisition of MGM National Harbor's real property, annual rent payments under the master lease increased to $757 million, prorated for the remainder of the second lease year. The master lease also provides for fixed annual escalators of 2% on the base rent in the second through sixth years and the possibility for additional 2% increases thereafter subject to the tenant meeting an adjusted net revenue to rent ratio, as well as potential increases in percentage rent in year six and every five years thereafter based on a percentage of average actual annual net revenue during the preceding five year period. As a result, our ability to fund our own operations, raise capital, make acquisitions, make investments, service our debt and otherwise respond to competitive and economic changes may be adversely affected. For example, our obligations under the master lease may:. •  make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness and to obtain additional indebtedness;. •  increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our business;. •  require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to making rent payments, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, development projects and other general corporate purposes;. •  limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. •  restrict our ability to make acquisitions, divestitures and engage in other significant transactions; and. •  cause us to lose our rights with respect to all of the properties leased under the master lease if we fail to pay rent or other amounts or otherwise default on the master lease, given that all of the properties we lease from MGP under the master lease are effectively cross-collateralized as a result of the master lease being a single unitary lease.. Any of the above factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 13. Risks Related to our Business. •  We face significant competition with respect to destination travel locations generally and with respect to our peers in the industries in which we compete, and failure to compete effectively could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The hotel, resort and casino industries are highly competitive. We do not believe that our competition is limited to a particular geographic area, and hotel, resort and gaming operations in other states or countries could attract our customers. To the extent that new casinos enter our markets or hotel room capacity is expanded by others in major destination locations, competition will increase. Major competitors, including potential new entrants, may also expand their hotel room capacity, expand their range of amenities, improve their level of service, or construct new resorts in Las Vegas, Macau or in the domestic regional markets in which we operate, all of which could attract our customers. Also, the growth of gaming in areas outside Las Vegas, including California, has increased the competition faced by our operations in Las Vegas and elsewhere.. In addition, competition could increase if changes in gaming restrictions in the United States and elsewhere result in the addition of new gaming establishments located closer to our customers than our casinos. For example, while our Macau operations compete to some extent with casinos located elsewhere in or near Asia, certain countries in the region have legalized casino gaming (including Japan) and others (such as Taiwan and Thailand) may legalize casino gaming (or online gaming) in the future (including, for example, a recent proposal by China to allow gambling on Hainan Island). Furthermore, currently MGM Grand Paradise holds one of only six gaming concessions authorized by the Macau government to operate casinos in Macau. If the Macau government were to allow additional competitors to operate in Macau through the grant of additional concessions or if current concessionaires and subconcessionaires open additional facilities, we would face increased competition.. Most jurisdictions where casino gaming is currently permitted place numerical and/or geographical limitations on the issuance of new gaming licenses. Although a number of jurisdictions in the United States and foreign countries are considering legalizing or expanding casino gaming, in some cases new gaming operations may be restricted to specific locations and we expect that there will be intense competition for any attractive new opportunities (which may include acquisitions of existing properties) that do arise. Furthermore, certain jurisdictions, including Nevada and New Jersey, have also legalized forms of online gaming and other jurisdictions, including Illinois, have legalized video gaming terminals. The expansion of online gaming and other types of gaming in these and other jurisdictions may further compete with our operations by reducing customer visitation and spend in our casino resorts.. In addition to competition with other hotels, resorts and casinos, we compete with destination travel locations outside of the markets in which we operate. Our failure to compete successfully in our various markets and to continue to attract customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. •  Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation and the cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our ownership and operation of gaming facilities is subject to extensive regulation by the countries, states and provinces in which we operate. These laws, regulations and ordinances vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. As such, our gaming regulators can require us to disassociate ourselves from suppliers or business partners found unsuitable by the regulators or, alternatively, cease operations in that jurisdiction. In addition, unsuitable activity on our part or on the part of our domestic or foreign unconsolidated affiliates or subsidiaries in any jurisdiction could have a negative effect on our ability to continue operating in other jurisdictions. The regulatory environment in any particular jurisdiction may change in the future and any such change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we are subject to various gaming taxes, which are subject to possible increase at any time by various federal, state, local and foreign legislatures and officials. Increases in gaming taxation could also adversely affect our results. For a summary of gaming and other regulations that affect our business, see \"Regulation and Licensing\" and Exhibit 99.2 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Further, our directors, officers, key employees and investors in our properties must meet approval standards of certain state and foreign regulatory authorities. If state regulatory authorities were to find such a person or investor unsuitable, we would be required to sever our relationship with that person or the investor may be required to dispose of his, her or its interest in the property. State regulatory agencies may conduct investigations into the conduct or associations of our directors, officers, key employees or investors to ensure compliance with applicable standards. Certain public and private issuances of securities and other transactions also require the approval of certain regulatory authorities.. 14. In Macau, current laws and regulations concerning gaming and gaming concessions are, for the most part, fairly recent and there is little precedent on the interpretation of these laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are complex, and a court or administrative or regulatory body may in the future render an interpretation of these laws and regulations, or issue new or modified regulations, that differ from MGM China's interpretation, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, MGM China's activities in Macau are subject to administrative review and approval by various government agencies. We cannot assure you that MGM China will be able to obtain all necessary approvals, and any such failure to do so may materially affect its long-term business strategy and operations. Macau laws permit redress to the courts with respect to administrative actions; however, to date such redress is largely untested in relation to gaming issues.. In addition to gaming regulations, we are also subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations affecting businesses in general. These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, smoking, employees, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, and marketing and advertising. For instance, we are subject to certain federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances, including the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation Recovery Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and the Oil Pollution Act of 1990. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, an owner or operator of real property may be held liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances or wastes located on its property, regardless of whether or not the present owner or operator knows of, or is responsible for, the presence of such substances or wastes. Such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. For example, Illinois has enacted a ban on smoking in nearly all public places, including bars, restaurants, work places, schools and casinos. Similarly, in October 2014, casinos in Macau, including MGM China, implemented a smoking ban which prohibits smoking on all mass market gaming floors and, in 2015, the Macau Health Bureau announced that they will promote the submission of a bill proposing a full smoking ban in casinos, including in VIP rooms. The likelihood or outcome of similar legislation in other jurisdictions and referendums in the future cannot be predicted, though any smoking ban would be expected to negatively impact our financial performance.. We also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to recordkeeping and reporting obligations as required by various anti-money laundering laws and regulations. For instance, we are subject to regulation under the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, commonly known as the \"Bank Secrecy Act,\" which, among other things, requires us to report to the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") any currency transactions in excess of $10,000 that occur within a 24-hour gaming day, including identification of the individual(s) involved in the currency transaction. We are also required to report certain suspicious activity where we know, suspect or have reason to suspect transactions, among other things, involve funds from illegal activity or are intended to evade federal regulations or avoid reporting requirements or have no business or lawful purpose. In addition, under the Bank Secrecy Act we are subject to various other rules and regulations involving reporting, recordkeeping and retention. Our compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act is subject to periodic examinations by the IRS. Any such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. Any violations of the anti-money laundering laws, including the Bank Secrecy Act, or regulations by any of our properties could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. •  Our business is affected by economic and market conditions in the jurisdictions in which we operate and in the locations in which our customers reside. Our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending and corporate spending on conventions, trade shows and business development. Economic contraction, economic uncertainty or the perception by our customers of weak or weakening economic conditions may cause a decline in demand for hotels, casino resorts, trade shows and conventions, and for the type of luxury amenities we offer. In addition, changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences could be driven by factors such as the increased cost of travel, an unstable job market, perceived or actual disposable consumer income and wealth, outbreaks of contagious diseases or fears of war and acts of terrorism or other acts of violence. Consumer preferences also evolve over time due to a variety of factors, including demographic changes, which, for instance, have resulted in recent growth in consumer demand for non-gaming offerings. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the preferences of consumers and timely react to these trends, and any failure to do so may negatively impact our results of operations. Aria, Bellagio and MGM Grand Las Vegas in particular may be affected by economic conditions in the Far East, and all of our Nevada resorts are affected by economic conditions in the United States, and California in particular. A recession, economic slowdown or any other significant economic condition affecting consumers or corporations generally is likely to cause a reduction in visitation to our resorts, which would adversely affect our operating results. For example, the prior recession and downturn in consumer and corporate spending had a negative impact on our results of operations.. 15. In addition, since we expect a significant number of customers to come to MGM Macau from mainland China, general economic and market conditions in China could impact our financial prospects. Any slowdown in economic growth or changes to China's current restrictions on travel and currency conversion or movements, including market impacts resulting from China's recent anti-corruption campaign and related tightening of liquidity provided by non-bank lending entities and cross-border currency monitoring (including increased restrictions on Union Pay withdrawals and other ATM limits on the withdrawal of patacas imposed by the government), could disrupt the number of visitors from mainland China to MGM Macau and/or the amounts they are willing to spend in the casino. For example, from 2008 through 2010, China readjusted its visa policy toward Macau and limited the number of visits that some mainland Chinese citizens may make to Macau in a given time period. In addition, effective October 2013, China banned \"zero - fare\" tour groups involving no or low up-front payments and compulsory shopping, which were popular among visitors to Macau from mainland China, and in December 2014 the Chinese government tightened the enforcement of visa transit rules for those seeking to enter Macau at the Gongbei border (including requirements to present an airplane ticket to a destination country, a visa issued by such destination country and a valid Chinese passport). Most recently, in July 2017, the Chinese government, along with Macau authorities, implemented new facial recognition technology on ATM machines in Macau to strictly enforce the \"know your customer\" regulations for mainland Chinese bank cardholders. It is unclear whether these and other measures will continue to be in effect, become more restrictive, or be readopted in the future. These developments have had, and any future policy developments that may be implemented may have, the effect of reducing the number of visitors to Macau from mainland China, which could adversely impact tourism and the gaming industry in Macau.. Furthermore, our operations in Macau may be impacted by competition for limited labor resources. Our success in Macau will be impacted by our ability to retain and hire employees. We compete with a large number of casino resorts for a limited number of employees and we anticipate that such competition will grow in light of new developments in Macau. While we seek employees from other countries to adequately staff our resorts, certain Macau government policies limit our ability to import labor in certain job classifications (for instance, the Macau government requires that we only hire Macau residents as dealers in our casinos) and any future government policies that freeze or cancel our ability to import labor could cause labor costs to increase. Finally, because additional casino projects are under construction and are to be developed in the future, existing transportation infrastructure may need to be expanded to accommodate increased visitation to Macau. If transportation facilities to and from Macau are inadequate to meet the demands of an increased volume of gaming customers visiting Macau, the desirability of Macau as a gaming destination, as well as the results of operations at our development in Cotai, Macau, could be negatively impacted.. •  We may not be able to sustain our continuous improvement efforts. In 2015, we commenced an initiative for sustained growth and margin enhancement, focused on improving our business processes to optimize scale for greater efficiency and lower costs throughout our business. While we believe these initiatives will continue to result in Adjusted EBITDA benefit, our optimization efforts may fail to achieve expected results or we may not be able to sustain our historic efforts to produce continuous improvements. In addition, while we expect to continue to explore additional opportunities to drive further improvement to our business processes, we may not be able to achieve the historic Adjusted EBITDA benefits at the same rate (or at all) and we may not be able to institutionalize the continuous improvement business practices that developed in connection with implementing the Profit Growth Plan.. •  Our ability to pay ongoing regular dividends to our stockholders is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and may be limited by our holding company structure, existing and future debt agreements entered into by us or our subsidiaries and state law requirements. We intend to pay ongoing regular quarterly cash dividends on our common stock. However, our board of directors may, in its sole discretion, change the amount or frequency of dividends or discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. In addition, our ability to pay dividends is restricted by certain covenants in our credit agreement, and because we are a holding company with no material direct operations, we are dependent on receiving cash from our operating subsidiaries to generate the funds from operations necessary to pay dividends on our common stock. We expect our subsidiaries will continue to generate significant cash flow necessary to maintain quarterly dividend payments on our common stock; however, their ability to generate funds will be subject to their operating results, cash requirements and financial condition, any applicable provisions of state law that may limit the amount of funds available to us, and compliance with covenants and financial ratios related to existing or future agreements governing any indebtedness at such subsidiaries and any limitations in other agreements such subsidiaries may have with third parties. In addition, each of the companies in our corporate chain must manage its assets, liabilities and working capital in order to meet all of their respective cash obligations. As a consequence of these various limitations and restrictions, future dividend payments may be reduced or eliminated. Any change in the level of our dividends or the suspension of the payment thereof could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. •  A significant number of our domestic gaming facilities are leased and could experience risks associated with leased property, including risks relating to lease termination, lease extensions, charges and our relationship with the lessor, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. We lease eleven of our. 16. destination resorts and The Park from a subsidiary of MGP pursuant to the master lease. The master lease has a term of ten years with up to four additional five year extensions, subject to satisfaction of certain conditions. The master lease is commonly known as a triple-net lease. Accordingly, in addition to rent, we are required to pay the following, among other things: (1) all facility maintenance, (2) all insurance required in connection with the leased properties and the business conducted on the leased properties, (3) taxes levied on or with respect to the leased properties (other than taxes on the income of the lessor), (4) all capital expenditures, and (5) all utilities and other services necessary or appropriate for the leased properties and the business conducted on the leased properties. We are responsible for paying these expenses notwithstanding the fact that many of the benefits received in exchange for such costs shall accrue in part to MGP as owner of the associated facilities. In addition, if some of our leased facilities should prove to be unprofitable or experience other issues that would warrant ceasing operations, or if we should otherwise decide to exit a particular property, we would remain obligated for lease payments and other obligations under the master lease even if we decided to cease operations at those locations unless we are able to transfer the rights with respect to a particular property in accordance with the requirements of the master lease. Our ability to transfer our obligations under the master lease to a third-party with respect to individual properties, should we decide to withdraw from a particular location, is limited to non-Las Vegas properties and no more than two Las Vegas gaming properties, and is subject to identifying a willing third-party who meets the requirements for a transferee set forth in the master lease. We may be unable to find an appropriate transferee willing to assume the obligations under the master lease with respect to any such property. In addition, we could incur special charges relating to the closing of such facilities including sublease termination costs, impairment charges and other special charges that would reduce our net income and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, our obligation to pay rent as well as the other costs described above is absolute in virtually all circumstances, regardless of the performance of the properties and other circumstances that might abate rent in leases that now place these risks on the tenant, such as certain events of casualty and condemnation.. •  Any financial, operational, regulatory or other potential challenges that may arise with respect to MGP, as our sole lessor for a significant portion of our properties, may adversely impair our operations. We lease a substantial number of the properties that we operate and manage, which represents a significant portion of our operations, from MGP under the master lease. If MGP has financial, operational, regulatory or other challenges, there can be no assurance that MGP will be able to comply with its obligations under the master lease or its other agreements with us. Failure on the part of MGP to fulfill its commitments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. •  James J. Murren, our Chairman, Daniel J. Taylor, one of our directors, and William J. Hornbuckle, Elisa C. Gois, and John M. McManus, members of our senior management, may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their positions at MGP. James J. Murren serves as our Chairman and as the Chairman of MGP. In addition, Daniel J. Taylor, one of our directors, is also a director of MGP and William J. Hornbuckle, Elisa C. Gois, and John M. McManus, members of our senior management, are also directors of MGP. While we have procedures in place to address such situations and the organizational documents with respect to MGP contain provisions that reduce or eliminate duties (including fiduciary duties) to any MGP shareholder to the fullest extent permitted by law, these overlapping positions could nonetheless create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when our or MGP's management and directors pursue the same corporate opportunities, such as potential acquisition targets, or face decisions that could have different implications for us and MGP. Further, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between us and MGP (or its subsidiaries) regarding the terms of the agreements governing the separation and the relationship, between us and MGP, such as under the master lease. Potential conflicts of interest could also arise if we and MGP enter into any commercial or other adverse arrangements with each other in the future.. •  Despite our ability to exercise control over the affairs of MGP as a result of our ownership of the single outstanding Class B share of MGP, MGP has adopted a policy under which certain transactions with us, including transactions involving consideration in excess of $25 million, must be approved in accordance with certain specified procedures, which could affect our ability to execute our operational and strategic objectives. We own the single outstanding Class B share of MGP. The Class B Share is a non-economic interest in MGP which does not provide its holder any rights to profits or losses or any rights to receive distributions from operations of MGP or upon liquidation or winding up of MGP, and which represents a majority of the voting power of MGP's shares so long as the holder of the Class B share and its controlled affiliates' (excluding MGP) aggregate beneficial ownership of the combined economic interests in MGP and the Operating Partnership does not fall below 30%. We, therefore, have the ability to exercise significant control over MGP's affairs, including control over the outcome of all matters submitted to MGP's shareholders for approval.. MGP's operating agreement, however, provides that whenever a potential conflict of interest exists or arises between us or any of our affiliates (other than MGP and its subsidiaries), on the one hand, and MGP or any of its subsidiaries, on the other hand, any resolution or course of action by MGP's board of directors in respect of such conflict of interest shall be conclusively deemed to be fair and reasonable to MGP if it is (i) approved by a majority of a conflicts committee which. 17. consists solely of \"independent\" directors (which MGP refers to as \"Special Approval\") (such independence determined in accordance with the NYSE's listing standards, the standards established by the Exchange Act to serve on an audit committee of a board of directors and certain additional independence requirements in our operating agreement), (ii) determined by MGP's board of directors to be fair and reasonable to MGP or (iii) approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of MGP's outstanding voting shares (excluding voting shares owned by us and our affiliates). Furthermore, MGP's operating agreement provides that any transaction with a value, individually or in the aggregate, over $25 million between us or any of our affiliates (other than MGP and its subsidiaries), on the one hand, and MGP or any of its subsidiaries, on the other hand (any such transaction (other than the exercise of rights by us or any of our affiliates (other than MGP and its subsidiaries) under any of the material agreements entered into on the closing day of MGP's formation transactions), a \"Threshold Transaction\"), shall be permitted only if (i) Special Approval is obtained or (ii) such transaction is approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of MGP's outstanding voting shares (excluding voting shares owned by us and our affiliates).. As a result, certain transactions, including any Threshold Transactions that we may want to pursue with MGP and that could have significant benefit to us may require Special Approval. There can be no assurance that the required approval will be obtained with respect to these transactions either from a conflicts committee comprised of independent MGP directors or the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares not held by us and our affiliates. The failure to obtain such requisite consent could materially affect our ability and the cost to execute our operational and strategic objectives.. •  We have agreed not to have any interest or involvement in gaming businesses in China, Macau, Hong Kong and Taiwan, other than through MGM China. In connection with the initial public offering of MGM China, the holding company that indirectly owns and operates MGM Macau, we entered into a Deed of Non-Compete Undertakings with MGM China and Ms. Ho, Pansy Catilina Chiu King (\"Ms. Ho\") pursuant to which we are restricted from having any interest or involvement in gaming businesses in the People's Republic of China, Macau, Hong Kong and Taiwan, other than through MGM China. While gaming is currently prohibited in China, Hong Kong and Taiwan, if it is legalized in the future our ability to compete in these locations could be limited until the earliest of (i) March 31, 2020, (ii) the date MGM China's ordinary shares cease to be listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited or (iii) the date when our ownership of MGM China shares is less than 20% of the then-issued share capital of MGM China.. •  The Macau government can terminate MGM Grand Paradise's subconcession under certain circumstances without compensating MGM Grand Paradise, exercise its redemption right with respect to the subconcession, or refuse to grant MGM Grand Paradise an extension of the subconcession in 2020, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate the subconcession in the event of fundamental non-compliance by MGM Grand Paradise with applicable Macau laws or MGM Grand Paradise's basic obligations under the subconcession contract. MGM Grand Paradise has the opportunity to remedy any such non-compliance with its fundamental obligations under the subconcession contract within a period to be stipulated by the Macau government. Upon such termination, all of MGM Grand Paradise's casino area premises and gaming-related equipment would be transferred automatically to the Macau government without compensation to MGM Grand Paradise, and we would cease to generate any revenues from these operations. We cannot assure you that MGM Grand Paradise will perform all of its obligations under the subconcession contract in a way that satisfies the requirements of the Macau government.. Furthermore, under the subconcession contract, MGM Grand Paradise is obligated to comply with any laws and regulations that the Macau government might promulgate in the future. We cannot assure you that MGM Grand Paradise will be able to comply with these laws and regulations or that these laws and regulations would not adversely affect our ability to construct or operate our Macau businesses. If any disagreement arises between MGM Grand Paradise and the Macau government regarding the interpretation of, or MGM Grand Paradise's compliance with, a provision of the subconcession contract, MGM Grand Paradise will be relying on a consultation and negotiation process with the Macau government. During any consultation or negotiation, MGM Grand Paradise will be obligated to comply with the terms of the subconcession contract as interpreted by the Macau government. Currently, there is no precedent concerning how the Macau government will treat the termination of a concession or subconcession upon the occurrence of any of the circumstances mentioned above. The loss of the subconcession would require us to cease conducting gaming operations in Macau, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. In addition, the subconcession contract expires on March 31, 2020. Unless the subconcession is extended, or legislation with regard to reversion of casino premises is amended, all of MGM Grand Paradise's casino premises and gaming-related equipment will automatically be transferred to the Macau government on that date without compensation to us, and we will cease to generate any revenues from such gaming operations. Beginning on April 20, 2017, the Macau government may redeem the subconcession contract by providing us at least one year's prior notice. In the event the Macau government. 18. exercises this redemption right, MGM Grand Paradise is entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. The amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of gaming and non-gaming revenue generated by MGM Grand Paradise, excluding the convention and exhibition facilities, during the taxable year prior to the redemption, before deducting interest, depreciation and amortization, multiplied by the number of remaining years before expiration of the subconcession. We cannot assure you that MGM Grand Paradise will be able to renew or extend the subconcession contract on terms favorable to MGM Grand Paradise or at all. We also cannot assure you that if the subconcession is redeemed, the compensation paid to MGM Grand Paradise will be adequate to compensate for the loss of future revenues.. •  MGM Grand Paradise is dependent upon gaming promoters for a significant portion of gaming revenues in Macau. Gaming promoters, who promote gaming and draw high-end customers to casinos, are responsible for a significant portion of MGM Grand Paradise's gaming revenues in Macau. With the rise in gaming in Macau and the recent reduction in the number of licensed gaming promoters in Macau and in the number of VIP rooms operated by licensed gaming promoters, the competition for relationships with gaming promoters has increased. While MGM Grand Paradise is undertaking initiatives to strengthen relationships with gaming promoters, there can be no assurance that it will be able to maintain, or grow, relationships with gaming promoters. In addition, continued reductions in, and new regulations governing, the gaming promoter segment may result in the closure of additional VIP rooms in Macau, including VIP rooms at MGM Macau. If MGM Grand Paradise is unable to maintain or grow relationships with gaming promoters, or if gaming promoters are unable to develop or maintain relationships with our high-end customers (or if, as a result of recent market conditions in Macau, gaming promoters encounter difficulties attracting patrons to come to Macau or experience decreased liquidity limiting their ability to grant credit to patrons), MGM Grand Paradise's ability to grow gaming revenues will be hampered. Furthermore, if existing VIP rooms at MGM Macau are closed there can be no assurance that MGM Grand Paradise will be able to locate acceptable gaming promoters to run such VIP rooms in the future in a timely manner, or at all.. In addition, the quality of gaming promoters is important to MGM Grand Paradise's and our reputation and ability to continue to operate in compliance with gaming licenses. While MGM Grand Paradise strives for excellence in associations with gaming promoters, we cannot assure you that the gaming promoters with whom MGM Grand Paradise is or becomes associated will meet the high standards insisted upon. If a gaming promoter falls below MGM Grand Paradise's standards, MGM Grand Paradise or we may suffer reputational harm or possibly sanctions from gaming regulators with authority over our operations.. We also grant credit lines to certain gaming promoters and any adverse change in the financial performance of those gaming promoters may impact the recoverability of these loans.. •  We are subject to taxation by various governments and agencies and the rate of taxation in the jurisdictions in which we operate could change in the future. We are subject to tax by various governments and agencies, both in the U.S. and in Macau. Changes in the rates of taxation, the amount of taxes we owe and the time when income is subject to taxation, the Macau income tax exemption or the imposition of foreign withholding taxes could increase our overall rate of taxation. Any of these changes could materially impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. •  The future recognition of our foreign tax credit deferred tax asset is uncertain, and the amount of valuation allowance we may apply against such deferred tax asset may change materially in future periods. We currently have significant deferred tax assets resulting from foreign tax credit carryforwards that are available to reduce potential taxable foreign-sourced income in future periods. We evaluate our foreign tax credit deferred tax asset for recoverability and record a valuation allowance to the extent that we determine it is not more likely than not such asset will be recovered. This evaluation is based on all available evidence, including assumptions concerning future U.S. operating profits and our initial interpretations of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") in the absence of regulatory or other clarifying guidance. As a result, significant judgment is required in assessing the possible need for a valuation allowance and changes to our assumptions could result in a material change in the valuation allowance with a corresponding impact on the provision for income taxes in the period including such change.. •  Extreme weather conditions or climate change may cause property damage or interrupt business, which could harm our business and results of operations. Certain of our casino properties are located in areas that may be subject to extreme weather conditions, including, but not limited to, hurricanes in the United States and severe typhoons in Macau. Such extreme weather conditions may interrupt our operations, damage our properties, and reduce the number of customers who visit our facilities in such areas. In addition, our operations could be adversely impacted by a drought or other cause of water shortage. A severe drought of extensive duration experienced in Las Vegas or in the other regions in which we operate could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Although we maintain both property and business interruption insurance coverage for certain extreme weather conditions, such coverage is subject to deductibles and limits on maximum benefits, including limitation on the coverage period for business interruption, and we cannot assure you that. 19. we will be able to fully insure such losses or fully collect, if at all, on claims resulting from such extreme weather conditions. Furthermore, such extreme weather conditions may interrupt or impede access to our affected properties and may cause visits to our affected properties to decrease for an indefinite period, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. •  Because a majority of our major gaming resorts are concentrated on the Las Vegas Strip, we are subject to greater risks than a gaming company that is more geographically diversified. Given that a majority of our major resorts are concentrated on the Las Vegas Strip, our business may be significantly affected by risks common to the Las Vegas tourism industry. For example, the cost and availability of air services and the impact of any events that disrupt air travel to and from Las Vegas can adversely affect our business. We cannot control the number or frequency of flights to or from Las Vegas, but we rely on air traffic for a significant portion of our visitors. Reductions in flights by major airlines as a result of higher fuel prices or lower demand can impact the number of visitors to our resorts. Additionally, there is one principal interstate highway between Las Vegas and Southern California, where a large number of our customers reside. Capacity constraints of that highway or any other traffic disruptions may also affect the number of customers who visit our facilities.. •  We extend credit to a large portion of our customers and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables. We conduct a portion of our gaming activities on a credit basis through the issuance of markers which are unsecured instruments. Table games players typically are issued more markers than slot players, and high-end players typically are issued more markers than patrons who tend to wager lower amounts. High-end gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a significant positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter. Furthermore, the loss or a reduction in the play of the most significant of these high-end customers could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We issue markers to those customers whose level of play and financial resources warrant, in the opinion of management, an extension of credit. In addition, MGM Grand Paradise extends credit to certain gaming promoters and those promoters can extend credit to their customers. Uncollectible receivables from high-end customers and gaming promoters could have a significant impact on our results of operations.. While gaming debts evidenced by markers and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable under the current laws of Nevada, and Nevada judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states under the Full Faith and Credit Clause of the U.S. Constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. Although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the U.S. of foreign debtors may be reached to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from United States courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations.. Furthermore, we expect that MGM Macau will be able to enforce its gaming debts only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including Macau. To the extent MGM Macau gaming customers and gaming promoters are from other jurisdictions, MGM Macau may not have access to a forum in which it will be able to collect all of its gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts and MGM Macau may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts. Moreover, under applicable law, MGM Macau remains obligated to pay taxes on uncollectible winnings from customers.. Even where gaming debts are enforceable, they may not be collectible. Our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results.. •  We may incur impairments to goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, or long-lived assets which could negatively affect our future profits. We review our goodwill, intangible assets and long-lived assets on an annual basis and during interim reporting periods in accordance with the authoritative guidance. Significant negative trends, reduced estimates of future cash flows, disruptions to our business, slower growth rates or lack of growth have resulted in write-downs and impairment charges in the past and, if one or more of such events occurs in the future, additional impairment charges or write-downs may be required in future periods. For instance, in 2015, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $1.5 billion to reduce the historical carrying value of goodwill related to the MGM China reporting unit. If we are required to record additional impairment charges or write-downs, this could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations.. •  Leisure and business travel, especially travel by air, are particularly susceptible to global geopolitical events, such as terrorist attacks, other acts of violence or acts of war or hostility. We are dependent on the willingness of our customers to travel by air. Since most of our customers travel by air to our Las Vegas and Macau properties, any terrorist act or other acts of violence, outbreak of hostilities, escalation of war, or any actual or perceived threat to the security of travel by air could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, although we have been able to purchase some insurance coverage for certain types of terrorist acts, insurance coverage against loss or business interruption resulting from war and some forms of terrorism continues to be unavailable.. 20. •  Co-investing in our properties, including our investment in CityCenter, decreases our ability to manage risk. In addition to acquiring or developing hotels and resorts or acquiring companies that complement our business directly, we have from time to time invested, and expect to continue to invest, as a co-investor. Co-investors often have shared control over the operation of the property. Therefore, the operation of such properties is subject to inherent risk due to the shared nature of the enterprise and the need to reach agreements on material matters. In addition, investments with other investors may involve risks such as the possibility that the co-investor might become bankrupt or not have the financial resources to meet its obligations, or have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, or be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. Consequently, actions by a co-investor might subject hotels and resorts owned by such entities to additional risk. Further, we may be unable to take action without the approval of our co-investors. Alternatively, our co-investors could take actions binding on the property without our consent. Additionally, should a co-investor become bankrupt, we could become liable for its share of liabilities.. For instance, CityCenter, which is 50% owned and managed by us, has a significant amount of indebtedness, which could adversely affect its business and its ability to meet its obligations. If CityCenter is unable to meet its financial commitments and we and our co-investor are unable to support future funding requirements, as necessary, such event could have adverse financial consequences to us. In addition, the agreements governing CityCenter's indebtedness subject CityCenter and its subsidiaries to significant financial and other restrictive covenants, including restrictions on its ability to incur additional indebtedness, place liens upon assets, make distributions to us, make certain investments, consummate certain asset sales, enter into transactions with affiliates (including us) and merge or consolidate with any other person or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets. The CityCenter credit facility also includes certain financial covenants that require CityCenter to maintain a maximum total net leverage ratio (as defined in CityCenter's credit facility) for each quarter. We cannot be sure that CityCenter will be able to meet this test in the future or that the lenders will waive any failure to meet the test.. •  Any of our future construction, development or expansion projects will be subject to significant development and construction risks, which could have a material adverse impact on related project timetables, costs and our ability to complete the projects.. Any of our future construction, development or expansion projects will be subject to a number of risks, including:. •  lack of sufficient, or delays in the availability of, financing;. •  changes to plans and specifications;. •  engineering problems, including defective plans and specifications;. •  shortages of, and price increases in, energy, materials and skilled and unskilled labor, and inflation in key supply markets;. •  delays in obtaining or inability to obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals;. •  changes in laws and regulations, or in the interpretation and enforcement of laws and regulations, applicable to gaming, leisure, residential, real estate development or construction projects;. •  labor disputes or work stoppages;. •  availability of qualified contractors and subcontractors;. •  disputes with and defaults by contractors and subcontractors;. •  personal injuries to workers and other persons;. •  environmental, health and safety issues, including site accidents and the spread of viruses;. •  weather interferences or delays;. •  fires, typhoons and other natural disasters;. •  geological, construction, excavation, regulatory and equipment problems; and. •  other unanticipated circumstances or cost increases.. The occurrence of any of these development and construction risks could increase the total costs, delay or prevent the construction, development, expansion or opening or otherwise affect the design and features of any future projects which we might undertake. For instance, we currently expect the total development costs of our Cotai project to be approximately $3.4 billion, excluding development fees eliminated in consolidation, capitalized interest and land-related costs, and we currently expect total development costs of our Massachusetts project to be approximately $960 million, excluding capitalized interest and land-related costs. While we believe that the overall budgets for these developments are reasonable, these development costs are estimates and the actual development costs may be higher than expected. We cannot guarantee that our construction costs or total project costs for future projects, including our development in Massachusetts, will not increase beyond amounts initially budgeted or that the expected design and features of current or future projects will not. 21. change. In addition, the regulatory approvals associated with our development projects may require us to open future casino resorts by a certain specified time and to the extent we are unable to meet those deadlines, and any such deadlines are not extended, we may lose our regulatory approval to open a casino resort in a proposed jurisdiction, or incur payment penalties in connection with any delays which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. We also make significant capital expenditures to maintain and upgrade our resorts, which may disrupt operations and displace revenue at the properties, including revenue lost while rooms, restaurants and meeting spaces are under renovation and out of service.. •  We are required to commence gaming operations at MGM Springfield no later than September 2019, one year from the opening date approved by the Massachusetts Gaming Commission. If we are unable to meet this deadline, the Massachusetts Gaming Commission may suspend or revoke our gaming license. Pursuant to the Gaming Act, we are required to commence gaming operations at MGM Springfield no later than September 2019, one year from the opening date approved by the Massachusetts Gaming Commission (the \"MGC\"). If MGM Springfield fails to begin gaming operations by September 2019 or receive an extension, MGM Springfield is subject to suspension or revocation of its gaming license by the MGC and may, after being found by the MGC after a hearing to have acted in bad faith in its application, be assessed a fine of up to $50,000,000. Failure to meet the deadline could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows from this property.. •  Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that our properties could suffer. In addition, our insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain similar insurance coverage in the future. Although we have \"all risk\" property insurance coverage for our operating properties, which covers damage caused by a casualty loss (such as fire, natural disasters, acts of war, or terrorism or other acts of violence), each policy has certain exclusions. In addition, our property insurance coverage is in an amount that may be significantly less than the expected replacement cost of rebuilding the facilities if there was a total loss. Our level of insurance coverage also may not be adequate to cover all losses in the event of a major casualty. In addition, certain casualty events, such as labor strikes, nuclear events, acts of war, loss of income due to cancellation of room reservations or conventions due to fear of terrorism or other acts of violence, loss of electrical power due to catastrophic events, rolling blackouts or otherwise, deterioration or corrosion, insect or animal damage, and pollution, may not be covered at all under our policies. Therefore, certain acts could expose us to substantial uninsured losses.. In addition to the damage caused to our properties by a casualty loss, we may suffer business disruption as a result of these events or be subject to claims by third parties that may be injured or harmed. While we carry business interruption insurance and general liability insurance, this insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses in any such event.. We renew our insurance policies (other than our builder's risk insurance) on an annual basis. The cost of coverage may become so high that we may need to further reduce our policy limits, further increase our deductibles, or agree to certain exclusions from our coverage.. •  Any failure to protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on the value of our brand names and adversely affect our business. The development of intellectual property is part of our overall business strategy, and we regard our intellectual property to be an important element of our success. While our business as a whole is not substantially dependent on any one trademark or combination of several of our trademarks or other intellectual property, we seek to establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our business operations through the use of trademarks. We file applications for, and obtain trademarks in, the United States and in foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, parties may infringe our trademarks and our rights may be invalidated or unenforceable. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the United States. Monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of resource. We cannot assure you that all of the steps we have taken to protect our trademarks in the United States and foreign countries will be adequate to prevent imitation of our trademarks by others. The unauthorized use or reproduction of our trademarks could diminish the value of our brand and its market acceptance, competitive advantages or goodwill, which could adversely affect our business.. 22. •  We are subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the United States. Our operations outside of the United States are subject to risks that are inherent in conducting business under non-United States laws, regulations and customs. In particular, the risks associated with the operation of MGM Macau or any future operations in which we may engage in any other foreign territories, include:. •  changes in laws and policies that govern operations of companies in Macau or other foreign jurisdictions;. •  changes in non-United States government programs;. •  possible failure by our employees or agents to comply with anti-bribery laws such as the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions;. •  general economic conditions and policies in China, including restrictions on travel and currency movements;. •  difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing non-United States operations;. •  different labor regulations;. •  changes in environmental, health and safety laws;. •  outbreaks of diseases or epidemics;. •  potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws;. •  political instability and actual or anticipated military and political conflicts;. •  economic instability and inflation, recession or interest rate fluctuations; and. •  uncertainties regarding judicial systems and procedures.. These risks, individually or in the aggregate, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. We are also exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. If the United States dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of other countries, our United States dollar reported income from sources where revenue is denominated in the currencies of other such countries will decrease.. •  Any violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or any other similar anti-corruption laws could have a negative impact on us. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from operations outside the United States, which exposes us to complex foreign and U.S. regulations inherent in doing cross-border business and in each of the countries in which we transact business. We are subject to compliance with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\") and other similar anti-corruption laws, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. While our employees and agents are required to comply with these laws, we cannot be sure that our internal policies and procedures will always protect us from violations of these laws, despite our commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics. Violations of these laws by us or our non-controlled ventures may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions as well as other penalties against us, and the SEC and U.S. Department of Justice continue to vigorously pursue enforcement of the FCPA. The occurrence or allegation of these types of risks may adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations.. •  We face risks related to pending claims that have been, or future claims that may be, brought against us. Claims have been brought against us and our subsidiaries in various legal proceedings, and additional legal and tax claims arise from time to time. We may not be successful in the defense or prosecution of our current or future legal proceedings, which could result in settlements or damages that could significantly impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. Please see the further discussion in \"Legal Proceedings\" and Note 12 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.. •  A significant portion of our labor force is covered by collective bargaining agreements. Work stoppages and other labor problems could negatively affect our business and results of operations. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 36,000 of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. The collective bargaining agreements covering most of our Las Vegas union employees expire in 2018. A prolonged dispute with the covered employees or any labor unrest, strikes or other business interruptions in connection with labor negotiations or others could have an adverse impact on our operations. Further, adverse publicity in the marketplace related to union messaging could further harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our services. Also, wage and/or benefit increases resulting from new labor agreements may be significant and could also have an adverse impact on our results of operations. For instance, Beau Rivage is currently engaged in negotiations for an initial collective bargaining agreement with a council of unions representing various hotel and food and beverage constituencies, Borgata will be engaged in negotiations with three unions in 2018, and MGM National Harbor is in negotiations with one union. In addition, to the extent that our non-union employees join unions, we would have greater exposure to risks associated with labor problems. Furthermore, we may have, or acquire in the future, multi-employer plans that are classified as \"endangered,\" \"seriously endangered,\" or \"critical\" status. For instance, Borgata's most significant plan as of December 31, 2017 is the Legacy Plan of the National Retirement Fund, which has. 23. been listed in \"critical status\" and is subject to a rehabilitation plan. Plans in these classifications must adopt measures to improve their funded status through a funding improvement or rehabilitation plan, which may require additional contributions from employers (which may take the form of a surcharge on benefit contributions) and/or modifications to retiree benefits. In addition, while Borgata has no current intention to withdraw from these plans, a withdrawal in the future could result in the incurrence of a contingent liability that would be payable in an amount and at such time (or over a period of time) that would vary based on a number of factors at the time of (and after) withdrawal. Any such additional costs may be significant.. •  Our business is particularly sensitive to energy prices and a rise in energy prices could harm our operating results. We are a large consumer of electricity and other energy and, therefore, higher energy prices may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Accordingly, increases in energy costs may have a negative impact on our operating results. Additionally, higher electricity and gasoline prices that affect our customers may result in reduced visitation to our resorts and a reduction in our revenues.. •   The failure to maintain the integrity of our computer systems and internal customer information could result in damage of reputation and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. We collect and store information relating to our employees, guests, and others for various business purposes, including marketing and promotional purposes. The collection and use of personal data are governed by privacy laws and regulations enacted in the United States and other jurisdictions around the world. Privacy laws and regulations continue to evolve and on occasion may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. Various federal, state and foreign legislative or regulatory bodies may enact or adopt new or additional laws and regulations concerning privacy, data retention, data transfer, and data protection issues. For example, the European Union has adopted a data protection regulation, known as the General Data Protection Regulation, which will become fully enforceable in May 2018 that includes operational and compliance requirements that are different from those currently in place and that also include significant penalties for non-compliance.. Compliance with applicable privacy laws and regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to market our products, properties and services to our guests. In addition, non-compliance with applicable privacy laws and regulations by us (or in some circumstances non-compliance by third parties engaged by us), including accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure, unapproved dissemination or a breach of security on systems storing our data may result in damage of reputation and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. We rely on proprietary and commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of customer and employee information, such as payment card and other confidential or proprietary information. Our data security measures are reviewed and evaluated regularly; however, they might not protect us against increasingly sophisticated and aggressive threats including, but not limited to, computer malware, viruses, and hacking and phishing attacks by third parties. In addition, while we maintain cyber risk insurance to assist in the cost of recovery from a significant cyber event, such coverage may not be sufficient.. We also rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, maintain information and manage our businesses. Disruptions in the availability of our computer systems, through cyber-attacks or otherwise, could impact our ability to service our customers and adversely affect our sales and the results of operations. For instance, there has been an increase in criminal cyber security attacks against companies where customer and company information has been compromised and company data has been destroyed. Our information systems and records, including those we maintain with our third-party service providers, may be subject to cyber security breaches in the future. In addition, our third-party information system service providers face risks relating to cyber security similar to ours, and we do not directly control any of such parties' information security operations. A significant theft, loss or fraudulent use of customer or company data maintained by us or by a third-party service provider could have an adverse effect on our reputation, cause a material disruption to our operations and management team, and result in remediation expenses, regulatory penalties and litigation by customers and other parties whose information was subject to such attacks, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows.. •  We are subject to risks related to corporate social responsibility and reputation. Many factors influence our reputation and the value of our brands including the perception held by our customers, business partners, other key stakeholders and the communities in which we do business. Our business faces increasing scrutiny related to environmental, social and governance activities and risk of damage to our reputation and the value of our brands if we fail to act responsibly in a number of areas, such as environmental stewardship, supply chain management, climate change, diversity and inclusion, workplace conduct, human rights, philanthropy and support for local communities. Any harm to our reputation could impact employee engagement and retention and the willingness of customers and our partners to do business with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows.. 24. •  We may seek to expand through investments in other businesses and properties or through alliances or acquisitions, and we may also seek to divest some of our properties and other assets, any of which may be unsuccessful. We intend to consider strategic and complementary acquisitions and investments in other businesses, properties or other assets. Furthermore, we may pursue any of these opportunities in alliance with third parties, including MGP. Acquisitions and investments in businesses, properties or assets, as well as these alliances, are subject to risks that could affect our business, including risks related to:. •  spending cash and incurring debt;. •  assuming contingent liabilities;. •  unanticipated issues in integrating information, communications and other systems;. •  unanticipated incompatibility of purchasing, logistics, marketing and administration methods;. •  retaining key employees; and. •  consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures.. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify opportunities or complete transactions on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that we will actually realize any anticipated benefits from such acquisitions, investments or alliances. In addition, even if we are able to successfully integrate new assets and businesses, the integration of such assets and businesses may result in unanticipated costs, competitive responses, loss or customer or other business relationships and the diversion of management attention.. In addition, we periodically review our business to identify properties or other assets that we believe either are non-core, no longer complement our business, are in markets which may not benefit us as much as other markets or could be sold at significant premiums. From time to time, we may attempt to sell these identified properties and assets. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to complete dispositions on commercially reasonable terms or at all.. •  If the jurisdictions in which we operate increase gaming taxes and fees, our results could be adversely affected. State and local authorities raise a significant amount of revenue through taxes and fees on gaming activities. From time to time, legislators and government officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, affecting the gaming industry. Periods of economic downturn or uncertainty and budget deficits may intensify such efforts to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes. If the jurisdictions in which we operate were to increase gaming taxes or fees, depending on the magnitude of the increase and any offsetting factors, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. For instance, income generated from gaming operations of MGM Grand Paradise currently has the benefit of a corporate tax exemption in Macau, which exempts us from paying the 12% complementary tax on profits generated by the operation of casino games. This exemption is effective through March 31, 2020, which also runs concurrent with the end of the term of the current gaming subconcession. Due to the uncertainty concerning taxation after the subconcession renewal process, we cannot assure you that any extensions of the tax exemption will be granted beyond March 31, 2020.. •  Conflicts of interest may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors of MGM China, the holding company for MGM Grand Paradise which owns and operates MGM Macau. As a result of the initial public offering of shares of MGM China common stock, MGM China now has stockholders who are not affiliated with us, and we and certain of our officers and directors who also serve as officers and/or directors of MGM China may have conflicting fiduciary obligations to our stockholders and to the minority stockholders of MGM China. Decisions that could have different implications for us and MGM China, including contractual arrangements that we have entered into or may in the future enter into with MGM China, may give rise to the appearance of a potential conflict of interest or an actual conflict of interest."
