[1] "ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS.. Our revenue and earnings depend on the rates we charge our customers. We cannot raise utility rates in our regulated businesses without filing a petition with the appropriate Utility Commissions. If these agencies modify, delay, or deny our petition, our revenues will not increase and our earnings will decline unless we are able to reduce costs.. The NJBPU regulates our public utility companies in New Jersey with respect to rates and charges for service, classification of accounts, awards of new service territory, acquisitions, financings and other matters. That means, for example, that we cannot raise the utility rates we charge to our customers without first filing a petition with the NJBPU and going through a lengthy administrative process. In much the same way, the DEPSC and the. 9. Index. PAPUC regulate our public utility companies in Delaware and Pennsylvania, respectively. We cannot give assurance of when we will request approval for any such matter, nor can we predict whether these Utility Commissions will approve, deny or reduce the amount of such requests.. Certain costs of doing business are not completely within our control. The failure to obtain any rate increase would prevent us from increasing our revenues and, unless we are able to reduce costs, would result in reduced earnings.. General economic conditions may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Adverse economic conditions could negatively impact our customers’ water usage demands, particularly the level of water usage demand by our commercial and industrial customers in our Middlesex System. If water demand by our commercial and industrial customers in our Middlesex System were negatively impacted, our financial condition and results of operations could continue to be negatively impacted.. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations, including water quality and wastewater effluent quality regulations, as well as other state and local regulations. Compliance with those laws and regulations requires us to incur costs and we are subject to fines or other sanctions for non-compliance.. Government environmental regulatory agencies regulate our operations in New Jersey, Delaware and Pennsylvania with respect to water supply, treatment and distribution systems and the quality of water. Government environmental regulatory agencies also regulate our operations in New Jersey and Delaware with respect to wastewater collection, treatment and disposal.. Government environmental regulatory agencies’ regulations relating to water quality require us to perform expanded types of testing to ensure that our water meets state and federal water quality requirements. We are subject to EPA regulations under the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act, which include the Lead and Copper Rule, the maximum contaminant levels established for various volatile organic compounds, the Federal Surface Water Treatment Rule and the Total Coliform Rule. There are also similar NJDEP regulations for our New Jersey water systems. The NJDEP, DEDPH and PADEP monitor our activities and review the results of water quality tests that we perform for adherence to applicable regulations. In addition, Government Environmental Regulatory Agencies are continually reviewing regulations governing the limits of certain organic compounds found in the water as byproducts of treatment.. We are also subject to regulations related to fire protection services in New Jersey and Delaware. In New Jersey there is no state-wide fire protection regulatory agency. However, New Jersey regulations exist as to the size of piping required regarding the provision of fire protection services. In Delaware, fire protection is regulated statewide by the Office of State Fire Marshal.. The cost of compliance with the water and wastewater effluent quality standards depends in part on the limits set in the regulations and on the method selected to implement them. If new or more restrictive standards are imposed, the cost of compliance could be very high and have an adverse impact on our revenues and results of operations if we cannot recover those costs through our rates that we charge our customers. The cost of compliance with fire protection requirements could also be high and make us less profitable if we cannot recover those costs through our rates charged to our customers.. In addition, if we fail to comply with environmental or other laws and regulations to which our business is subject, we could be fined or subject to other sanctions, which could adversely impact our business or results of operations.. 10. Index. We depend upon our ability to raise money in the capital markets to finance some of the costs of complying with laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations or to pay for some of the costs of improvements to or the expansion of our utility system assets. Our regulated utility companies cannot issue debt or equity securities without regulatory approval.. We require financing to fund the ongoing capital program for the improvement in our utility system assets and for planned expansion of those systems. We expect to spend approximately $267 million for capital projects through 2020. We must obtain approval from our economic regulators to sell debt or equity securities to raise money for these projects. If sufficient capital is not available, or the cost of capital is too high, or if the regulatory authorities deny a petition of ours to sell debt or equity securities, we may not be able to meet the costs of complying with environmental laws and regulations or the costs of improving and expanding our utility system assets to the level we believe operationally prudent. This may result in the imposition of fines from environmental regulators or restrictions on our operations which could curtail our ability to upgrade or replace utility system assets.. We rely on our information technology systems to help manage our operations.. Our information technology systems require periodic modifications, upgrades and or replacement which subject us to costs and risks including potential disruption of our internal control structure, substantial capital expenditures, additional administration and operating expenses, retention of sufficiently skilled personnel to implement and operate existing or new systems, and other risks and costs of delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems or of integrating new systems into our current systems. In addition, challenges implementing new technology systems may cause disruptions in our business operations and have an adverse effect on our business operations, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated.. We rely on our computer, information and communications technology systems in connection with the operation of our business, especially with respect to customer service and billing, accounting and, in some cases, the monitoring and operation of our operating facilities.  Our computer and communications systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by natural disasters, power loss and internet, telecommunications or data network failures or acts of war or terrorism or similar events or disruptions.  Any of these or other events could cause service interruption, delays and loss of critical data or, impede aspects of operations and therefore, adversely affect our financial results.. Cyber-attacks on entities around the world have caused operational failures and/or compromised corporate and personal data. Such attacks could result in the loss, or compromise, of customer, financial or operational data, disruption of billing, collections or normal field service activities, disruption of electronic monitoring and control of operational systems and delays in financial reporting and other management functions. Possible impacts associated with a cyber-incident may include remediation costs related to lost, stolen, or compromised data, repairs to data processing systems, increased cyber security protection costs, adverse effects on our compliance with regulatory and environmental laws and regulation, including standards for drinking water, litigation and reputational damage.. Weather conditions and overuse of underground aquifers may interfere with our sources of water, demand for water services and our ability to supply water to customers.. Our ability to meet current and future water demands of our customers depends on the availability of an adequate supply of water. Unexpected conditions may interfere with our water supply sources. Drought and overuse of underground aquifers may limit the availability of ground and/or surface water. Freezing weather may also contribute to water transmission interruptions caused by water main breakage. Any interruption in our water supply could cause a reduction in our revenue and profitability. These factors may adversely affect our ability to supply water in sufficient quantities to our customers. Governmental drought restrictions may result in decreased customer demand for water services and can adversely affect our revenue and earnings.. 11. Index. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations, which could affect demand for our water service and our revenues.. Demand for our water during the warmer months is generally greater than during cooler months due primarily to additional consumption of water in connection with irrigation systems, swimming pools, cooling systems and other outdoor water use. Throughout the year, and particularly during typically warmer months, demand may vary with temperature and rainfall levels. In the event that temperatures during the typically warmer months are cooler than normal, or if there is more rainfall than normal, the demand for our water may decrease and adversely affect our revenues.. Our water sources or water service provided to customers may become contaminated by naturally-occurring or man-made compounds and events. This may cause disruption in services and impose operational and regulatory enforcement costs upon us to restore the water to required levels of quality as well as may damage our reputation and cause private litigation claims against us.. Our sources of water or water in our distribution systems may become contaminated by naturally-occurring or man-made compounds or other events. In the event that any portion of our water supply sources or water distribution systems is contaminated, we may need to interrupt service to our customers until we are able to remediate the contamination or substitute the flow of water from an uncontaminated water source through existing interconnections with other water purveyors or through our transmission and distribution systems, where possible. We may also incur significant costs in treating any contaminated water, or remediating the effects on our treatment and distribution systems, through the use of our current treatment facilities, or development of new treatment methods. Our inability to substitute water supply from an uncontaminated water source, or to adequately treat the contaminated water supply in a cost-effective manner, may reduce our revenues and make us less profitable.. We may be unable to recover costs associated with treating or decontaminating water supplies through rates, or recovery of these costs may not occur in a timely manner. In addition, we could be subject to claims for damages arising from government enforcement actions or other lawsuits arising out of interruption of service or human exposure to hazardous substances in our drinking water and water supplies. Such costs could adversely affect our financial results.. Contamination of the water supply or the water service provided to our customers could result in substantial injury or damage to our customers, employees or others and we could be exposed to substantial claims and litigation, which are inherently subject to uncertainties and are potentially subject unfavorable rulings. Negative impacts to our profitability and our reputation may occur even if we are not responsible for the contamination or the consequences arising out of human exposure to contamination or hazardous substances in the water or water supplies. Pending or future claims against us could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We face competition from other water and wastewater utilities and service providers which might hinder our growth and reduce our profitability.. We face risks of competition from other utilities or other entities authorized by federal, state or local agencies to provide utility services. Once a state utility regulator grants a franchise to a utility to serve a specific territory, that utility effectively has an exclusive right to service that territory. Although a new franchise offers some protection against competitors, the pursuit of franchises is often competitive, particularly in Delaware, where new franchises may be awarded to utilities based upon competitive negotiation. Competing entities have challenged, and may challenge in the future, our applications for new franchises. Also, third parties entering into long-term agreements to operate municipal utility systems may adversely affect our long-term agreements to supply water or wastewater services on a contract basis to municipalities, which could adversely affect our financial results.. 12. Index. We have short-term and long-term contractual obligations for water, wastewater and storm water system operation and maintenance under which we may incur costs in excess of payments received.. USA-PA operates and maintains the water and wastewater systems of Perth Amboy under a 20-year contract expiring on December 31, 2018. USA operates and maintains the water, wastewater and storm water systems of Avalon under a 10-year contract expiring in 2022. These contracts do not protect us against incurring costs in excess of revenues we earn pursuant to the contracts. There can be no absolute assurance that we will not experience losses resulting from these contracts. Losses under these contracts, or our failure or inability to perform or renew such agreements, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We serve as guarantor of performance of an unaffiliated company under a contract to operate a leachate pretreatment facility at the Monmouth County Reclamation Center in Tinton Falls, New Jersey.. Middlesex entered into agreements, expiring in 2028, with Applied Water Management, Inc. (AWM), Natural Systems Utilities, LLC, (NSU) the parent company of AWM, and the County of Monmouth, New Jersey (County) for the operation of a leachate pretreatment facility at the Monmouth County Reclamation Center in Tinton Falls, New Jersey. Under the terms of the agreement, AWM operates the County-owned landfill leachate pretreatment facility. Middlesex is the guarantor of AWM's performance under the agreement (the Guaranty), for which Middlesex earns a fee, in addition to providing operational support if necessary. If asked to perform under the Guaranty, Middlesex could be required to fulfill the remaining operational commitments of AWM. There can be no absolute assurance that we will not experience losses if asked to perform under the Guaranty. Losses from performance under this Guaranty, or our failure or inability to perform, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. NSU and AWM have indemnified Middlesex for any costs Middlesex may incur in connection with its Guaranty to the County.. Capital market conditions and key assumptions may adversely impact the value of our postretirement benefit plan assets and liabilities.. Market factors can adversely affect the rate of return on assets held in trusts to satisfy our future postretirement benefit obligations as well negatively affect interest rates, which impacts the discount rates used in the determination of our postretirement benefit actuarial valuations. In addition, changes in demographics, such as increases in life expectancy assumptions, can increase future postretirement benefit obligations. Any negative impact to these factors, either individually or a combination thereof, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. An element of our growth strategy is the acquisition of water and wastewater assets, operations, contracts or companies. Any pending or future acquisitions we decide to undertake will involve risks.. The acquisition and/or operation of water and wastewater systems is an element of our growth strategy. This strategy depends on identifying suitable opportunities and reaching mutually agreeable terms with acquisition candidates or contract partners. Further, acquisitions may result in dilution of our equity securities, incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, fluctuations in quarterly results and other related expenses. In addition, the assets, operations, contracts or companies we acquire may not achieve the revenues and profitability expected.. The current concentration of our business in central New Jersey and Delaware makes us susceptible to adverse development in local regulatory, economic, demographic, competitive and weather conditions.. Our New Jersey water and wastewater businesses provide services to customers who are located primarily in eastern Middlesex County, New Jersey. Water service is provided under wholesale contracts to the Townships of Edison, East Brunswick and Marlboro, the Borough of Highland Park, the Old Bridge Municipal Utilities Authority, and the City of Rahway in Union County, New Jersey. We also provide water and wastewater services to customers in the State of Delaware. Our revenues and operating results are therefore subject to local regulatory, economic, demographic, competitive and weather conditions in a relatively concentrated geographic area. A change in any of these conditions could make it more costly for us to conduct our business.. 13. Index. The necessity for ongoing security has resulted, and may continue to result, in increased operating costs.. Because of physical and operational threats to the health and security of the United States of America, we employ procedures to review and modify, as necessary, physical and other security measures at our facilities. We provide ongoing training and communications to our employees about threats to our water supply, our assets and related systems and our employees’ personal safety. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, costs for security measures to protect against such risks.. Our ability to achieve organic customer growth in our market area is dependent on the residential building market. New housing starts are one element that impacts our rate of growth and therefore, may not meet our expectations.. We expect our revenues to increase from customer growth for our regulated water and wastewater operations as a result of anticipated construction and sale of new housing units. If housing starts decline, or do not increase as we have projected, as a result of economic conditions or otherwise, the timing and extent of our organic revenue growth may not meet our expectations, our deferred project costs may not produce revenue-generating projects in the timeframes anticipated and our financial results could be negatively impacted.. There can be no assurance we will continue to pay dividends in the future or, if dividends are paid, that they will be in amounts similar to past dividends.. We have paid dividends on our common stock each year since 1912 and have increased the amount of dividends paid each year since 1973. Our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, applicable regulations and other factors, including the timeliness and adequacy of rate increases, will determine both our ability to pay dividends and the amount of those dividends. There can be no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends in the future or, if dividends are paid, that they will be in amounts similar to past dividends.. If we are unable to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness as it comes due or we default under certain other provisions of our loan documents, our indebtedness could be accelerated and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Our ability to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness as it comes due will depend upon our current and future performance. Our performance is affected by many factors, some of which are beyond our control.. We believe cash generated from operations and, if necessary, borrowings under existing credit facilities, will be sufficient to enable us to make our debt payments as they become due. If, however, we do not generate sufficient cash, we may be required to refinance our obligations or sell additional equity, which may be on terms that are less favorable than we desire.. No assurance can be given that any refinancing or sale of equity will be possible when needed, or that we will be able to negotiate acceptable terms. In addition, our failure to comply with certain provisions contained in our trust indentures and loan agreements relating to our outstanding indebtedness could lead to a default under these documents, which could result in an acceleration of our indebtedness.. We depend significantly on the technical and management services of our senior management team, and the departure of any of those persons could cause our operating results to temporarily be short of our expectations.. Our success depends significantly on the continued individual and collective contributions of our senior management team. If we lose the services of any member of our senior management, or are unable to attract and retain qualified senior management personnel, our operating results could be negatively impacted.. 14. Index. We are subject to anti-takeover measures that may be used to discourage, delay or prevent changes of control that might benefit non-management shareholders.. Subsection 10A of the New Jersey Business Corporation Act, known as the New Jersey Shareholders Protection Act, applies to us. The Shareholders Protection Act deters merger proposals, tender offers or other attempts to effect changes in control that are not approved by our Board of Directors. In addition, we have a classified Board of Directors, which means only a portion of the Director population is elected each year. A classified Board can make it more difficult for an acquirer to gain control of the Company by voting its candidates onto the Board of Directors and may also deter merger proposals and tender offers. Our Board of Directors also has the ability, subject to obtaining NJBPU approval, to issue one or more series of preferred stock having such number of shares, designation, preferences, voting rights, limitations and other rights as the Board of Directors may fix. This could be used by the Board of Directors to discourage, delay or prevent an acquisition that the Board of Directors determines is not in the best interest of the common shareholders."
