[1] "Item 1A — Risk Factors. Risks Related to the Company’s Business. We are exposed to interest-rate risk. With the record low interest rates that have prevailed for many years, the interest-rate risk that exists for most or all financial institutions arises out of interest rates that increase more than anticipated or that increase more quickly than expected. If interest rates change more abruptly than we have simulated or if the increase is greater than we have simulated, this could have an adverse effect on our net interest income and equity value.. The Company operates in a highly competitive industry and market area. The Company faces significant competition both in making loans and in attracting deposits. Competition is based on interest rates and other credit and service charges, the quality of services rendered, the convenience of banking facilities, the range and type of products offered and, in the case of loans to larger commercial borrowers, lending limits, among other factors. Competition for loans comes principally from commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, and other financial service companies. The Company’s most direct competition for deposits has historically come from commercial banks, savings banks, and savings and loan associations. Technology has also lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Larger competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, offer a broader range of products and services. The Company’s ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe ability to develop, maintain, and build long-term customer relationships based on top quality service, high ethical standards, and safe, sound assets;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe ability to expand the Company’s market position;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe scope, relevance, and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe rate at which the Company introduces new products and services relative to its competitors;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcustomer satisfaction with the Company’s level of service; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tindustry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken the Company’s competitive position, which could adversely affect growth and profitability.. The Company may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. The Company’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people can be intense and the Company may not be able to hire people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of the services of key personnel of the Company could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business because of their skills, knowledge of the Company’s market, years of industry experience, and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. The Company has non-competition agreements with senior officers and key personnel.. 19. The Company does not have the financial and other resources that larger competitors have; this could affect its ability to compete for large commercial loan originations and its ability to offer products and services competitors provide to customers. The northeastern Ohio and central Ohio markets in which the Company operates have high concentrations of financial institutions. Many of the financial institutions operating in our markets are branches of significantly larger institutions headquartered in Cleveland or in other major metropolitan areas, with significantly greater financial resources and higher lending limits. In addition, many of these institutions offer services that the Company does not or cannot provide. For example, the larger competitors’ greater resources offer advantages such as the ability to price services at lower, more attractive levels, and the ability to provide larger credit facilities. The Company accommodates loan volumes in excess of its lending limits from time to time through the sale of loan participations to other banks.. The business of banking is changing rapidly with changes in technology, which poses financial and technological challenges to small and mid-sized institutions. With frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services, the banking industry is undergoing rapid technological changes. In addition to enhancing customer service, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Financial institutions’ success is increasingly dependent upon use of technology to provide products and services that satisfy customer demands and to create additional operating efficiencies. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements, which could enable them to perform various banking functions at lower costs than the Company, or to provide products and services that the Company is not able to economically provide. The Company cannot assure you that we will be able to develop and implement new technology-driven products or services or that the Company will be successful in marketing these products or services to customers. Because of the demand for technology-driven products, banks increasingly rely on unaffiliated vendors to provide data processing services and other core banking functions. The use of technology-related products, services, delivery channels, and processes exposes banks to various risks, particularly transaction, strategic, reputation, and compliance risk. The Company cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully manage the risks associated with our dependence on technology.. The banking industry is heavily regulated; the compliance burden to the industry is considerable; the principal beneficiary of federal and state regulation is the public at large and depositors, not stockholders. The Company and its subsidiaries are and will remain subject to extensive state and federal government supervision and regulation. This supervision and regulation affects many aspects of the banking business, including permissible activities, lending, investments, payment of dividends, the geographic locations in which our services can be offered, and numerous other matters. State and federal supervision and regulation are intended principally to protect depositors, the public, and the deposit insurance fund administered by the FDIC. Protection of stockholders is not a goal of banking regulation.. The burdens of federal and state banking regulation place banks in general at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors. Applicable statutes, regulations, agency and court interpretations, and agency enforcement policies have undergone significant changes, and could change significantly again. Federal and state banking agencies also require banks and bank holding companies to maintain adequate capital. Failure to maintain adequate capital or to comply with applicable laws, regulations, and supervisory agreements could subject a bank or bank holding company to federal or state enforcement actions, including termination of deposit insurance, imposition of fines and civil penalties, and, in the most severe cases, appointment of a conservator or receiver for a depositary institution. Changes in applicable laws and regulatory policies could adversely affect the banking industry generally or the Company in particular. The Company gives you no assurance that we will be able to adapt successfully to industry changes caused by governmental actions.. Success in the banking industry requires disciplined management of lending risks. There are many risks in the business of lending, including risks associated with the duration over which loans may be repaid, risks resulting from changes in economic conditions, risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers, and risks resulting from changes in the value of loan collateral. We attempt to mitigate this risk by a thorough review of the creditworthiness of loan customers. Nevertheless, there is risk that our credit evaluations will prove to be inaccurate due to changed circumstances or otherwise.. The Company’s allowance for loan and lease losses may be insufficient. A critical resource for maintaining the safety and soundness of banks so that they can fulfill their basic function of financial intermediation, the allowance for possible loan losses is a reserve established through a provision for possible loan losses charged to expense that represents management’s best estimate of probable losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. Current accounting standards for loan loss provisioning are based on the so-called “incurred loss” model. Under this model, a bank can reserve against a loan loss through a provision to the loan loss reserve only if that loss has been “incurred,” which means a loss that is probable and can be reasonably estimated. To meet that standard, banks have to document why a loss is probable and reasonably estimable, and the easiest way to do that is to refer to historical loss rates and the bank’s own prior loss experience with the type of asset in question. Banks are not limited to using historical experience in deciding the appropriate level of the loan loss reserve. In making these determinations, management can use judgment that takes into account other factors, such as changes in underwriting standards and changes in the economic environment that would have an impact on loan losses.. The level of the allowance reflects management’s continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political, and regulatory conditions; and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for possible loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires management to make significant estimates of current credit risks, all of which may undergo material changes. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of the Company’s control, may require an increase in the allowance for possible loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the allowance for loan and lease losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for possible loan losses, the Company will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for possible loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for possible loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.. 20. A new accounting standard may require us to increase our allowance for loan and lease losses and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) has adopted a new accounting standard that will be effective for the Bank for our first fiscal year after December 15, 2020. This standard, referred to as Current Expected Credit Loss, or CECL, will require financial institutions to determine periodic estimates of lifetime expected credit losses on loans, and recognize the expected credit losses as allowances for loan losses. This will change the current method of providing allowances for loan losses that are probable, which may require us to increase our allowance for loan and lease losses, and to greatly increase the types of data we will need to collect and review to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for loan and lease losses Any change in the allowance for loan and lease losses at the time of adoption will be an adjustment to retained earnings and would change the Bank’s capital levels. Any increase in our allowance for loan and lease losses or expenses incurred to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for loan and lease losses may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb the probable, incurred losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business. However, every loan we make carries a risk of non-payment. This risk is affected by, among other things: the cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; in the case of a collateralized loan, the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral, the credit history of a particular borrower, changes in economic and industry conditions, and the duration of the loan.. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. One of our most critical estimates is the level of the allowance for loan losses. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, we cannot provide absolute assurance that we will not be required to charge earnings for significant unexpected loan losses.. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is a reasonable estimate of the probable, incurred losses within the loan portfolio. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. Through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering general market conditions, the credit quality of the loan portfolio, the collateral supporting the loans and the performance of customers relative to their financial obligations with us. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. We cannot fully predict the amount or timing of losses or whether the loan loss allowance will be adequate in the future. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover the probable, incurred losses in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance for loan losses. Excessive loan losses and significant additions to our allowance for loan losses could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Material breaches in security of bank systems may have a significant effect on the Company’s business. We collect, process and store sensitive consumer data by utilizing computer systems and telecommunications networks operated by both banks and third party service providers. We have security, backup and recovery systems in place, as well as a business continuity plan to ensure systems will not be inoperable. We also have security to prevent unauthorized access to the system. In addition, we require third party service providers to maintain similar controls. However, we cannot be certain that these measures will be successful. A security breach in the system and loss of confidential information could result in losing customers’ confidence and thus the loss of their business as well as additional significant costs for privacy monitoring activities.. Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process transaction volumes poses the risk that technical system flaws or employee errors, tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses and may be difficult to detect. We may also be subject to disruptions of the operating systems arising from events that are beyond our control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages). We are further exposed to the risk that the third party service providers may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors). These disruptions may interfere with service to customers and result in a financial loss or liability.. Changing interest rates have a direct and immediate impact on financial institutions. The risk of nonpayment of loans — or credit risk — is not the only lending risk. Lenders are subject also to interest rate risk. Fluctuating rates of interest prevailing in the market affect a bank’s net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned from loans and investments, on one hand, and interest paid on deposits and borrowings, on the other. Changes in the general level of interest rates can affect our net interest income by affecting the difference between the weighted-average yield earned on our interest-earning assets and the weighted-average rate paid on our interest-bearing liabilities, or interest rate spread, and the average life of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in interest rates also can affect (i) our ability to originate loans, (ii) the value of our interest-earning assets, and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets, (iii) our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives, and (iv) the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions, and other factors beyond our control. Although the Company believes that the estimated maturities of our interest-earning assets currently are well balanced in relation to the estimated maturities of our interest-bearing liabilities (which involves various estimates as to how changes in the general level of interest rates will impact these assets and liabilities), there can be no assurance that our profitability would not be adversely affected during any period of changes in interest rates.. 21. A prolonged economic downturn in our market area would adversely affect our loan portfolio and our growth prospects. Our lending market area is concentrated in northeastern and central Ohio, particularly Franklin, Geauga, Portage, Trumbull, Ashtabula, Summit, and Cuyahoga Counties. A very significant percentage of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate collateral, primarily residential mortgage loans. Commercial and industrial loans to small and medium-sized businesses also represent a significant percentage of our loan portfolio. The asset quality of our loan portfolio is largely dependent upon the area’s economy and real estate markets. A prolonged economic downturn would likely lead to deterioration of the credit quality of our loan portfolio and reduce our level of customer deposits, which in turn would hurt our business. Borrowers may be less likely to repay their loans as scheduled or at all. Moreover, the value of real estate or other collateral that may secure our loans could be adversely affected. Unlike many larger institutions, we are not able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies and geographic locations. A prolonged economic downturn could, therefore, result in losses that could materially and adversely affect our business.. Changes in accounting standards could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. The accounting standard setters, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC, and other regulatory bodies, from time to time may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, the Company could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in changes to previously reported financial results, or a cumulative charge to retained earnings. Management may be required to make difficult, subjective, or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions.. Regulatory requirements affecting our loans secured by commercial real estate could limit our ability to leverage our capital and adversely affect our growth and profitability. Rising commercial real estate lending concentrations may expose institutions like the Bank to unanticipated earnings and capital volatility in the event of adverse changes in the commercial real estate market. In addition, institutions that are exposed to significant commercial real estate concentration risk may be subject to increased regulatory scrutiny. The federal banking agencies have issued guidance for institutions that are deemed to have concentrations in commercial real estate lending. Pursuant to the supervisory criteria contained in the guidance for identifying institutions with a potential commercial real estate concentration risk, institutions that have (i) total reported loans for construction, land development, and other land which represent 100% or more of an institution’s total risk-based capital; or (ii) total commercial real estate loans representing 300% or more of the institution’s total risk-based capital and the outstanding balance of the institution's commercial real estate loan portfolio has increased 50% or more during the prior 36 months are encouraged to identify and monitor credit concentrations and enhance risk management systems. As of December 31, 2017, our loans for construction, land development, and other land represent only [46] % of our total risk-based capital. At December 31, 2017, the Bank’s non-owner occupied commercial real estate concentration was [373] % of the Bank’s capital and the Bank’s commercial real estate loan portfolio has increased by approximately [178] % during the prior 36 months. The Bank has determined that its CRE portfolio concentration levels require enhanced monitoring under the regulatory guidance. Management has implemented and continues to maintain heightened portfolio monitoring and reporting, and enhanced underwriting criteria with respect to its commercial real estate portfolio. Nevertheless, our level of commercial real estate lending could limit our growth or require us to obtain additional capital, lead to increased regulatory scrutiny, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our net-loan-to-deposit-ratio is higher than our peer group and may affect our future profitability and growth. At December 31, 2017, the ratio of our net loans to our total deposits exceeded 100%. FDIC-insured, low-cost deposits are a stable and desirable source of funding for banks. If we have insufficient core deposits to fund our loan growth, we may be required to rely more heavily on nondeposit sources of funds. The availability and cost of nondeposit funding are more sensitive to changing economic or financial conditions. Our need to rely on noncore funding sources to support future growth may reduce our net interest margin and have an adverse effect on our profitability.. Changes in Tax Laws Could Have an Adverse Effect on Us, Our Industry, Our Customers, The Value of Collateral Securing Our Loans and Demand for Our Loans. Federal tax reform legislation enacted by Congress in December 2017 contains a number of provisions that could have an impact on the banking industry, borrowers and the market for single-family residential and multifamily residential real estate. Among the changes are: a lower cap on the amount of mortgage interest that a borrower may deduct on single-family residential mortgages; the lower mortgage interest cap will be spread among all of the borrower’s residential mortgages, which may result in elimination or lowering of the mortgage interest deduction on a second home; limitations on deductibility of business interest expense; limitations on the deductibility of state and local income and property taxes. Such changes could have an adverse effect on the market for and valuation of single-family residential properties and multifamily residential properties, and on the demand for such loans in the future. If home ownership or multifamily residential property ownership become less attractive, demand for our loans could decrease. The value of the properties securing loans in our portfolio may be adversely impacted as a result of the changing economics of home ownership and multifamily residential ownership, which could require an increase in our provision for loan losses, which would reduce our profitability and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 22. We Are Dependent on Our Management Team and Key Employees, and If We Are Not Able to Retain Them, Our Business Operations Could Be Materially Adversely Affected. Our success depends, in large part, on our management team and key employees. Our management team has significant industry experience. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain key employees. Qualified individuals are in high demand, and we may incur significant costs to attract and retain them. Because the market for qualified individuals is highly competitive, we may not be able to attract and retain qualified officers or candidates. The loss of any of our management team or our key employees could materially adversely affect our ability to execute our business strategy, and we may not be able to find adequate replacements on a timely basis, or at all. We cannot ensure that we will be able to retain the services of any members of our management team or other key employees. Though we have change-in-control agreements in place with certain members of our management team they may still elect to leave at any time. Failure to attract and retain a qualified management team and qualified key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our operations could be interrupted if our third-party service providers experience difficulty, terminate their services or fail to comply with banking regulations. We depend to a significant extent on a number of relationships with third-party service providers. Specifically, we receive core systems processing, essential web hosting and other internet systems, deposit processing and other processing services from third-party service providers. If these third-party service providers experience difficulties or terminate their services and we are unable to replace them with other service providers, our operations could be interrupted. If an interruption were to continue for a significant period of time, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially. Even if we are able to replace them, it may be at a higher cost to us, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have a continuing need for technological change, and we may not have the resources to effectively implement new technology or we may experience operational challenges when implementing new technology. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations as we continue to grow and expand our market area. We may experience operational challenges as we implement these new technology enhancements, or seek to implement them across all of our offices and business units, which could result in us not fully realizing the anticipated benefits from such new technology or require us to incur significant costs to remedy any such challenges in a timely manner.. We face a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations. The Bank Secrecy Act of 1970, the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001, or the USA Patriot Act or Patriot Act, and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain an effective anti-money laundering program and to file reports such as suspicious activity reports and currency transaction reports. We are required to comply with these and other anti-money laundering requirements. Our federal and state banking regulators, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, or FinCEN, and other government agencies are authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of anti-money laundering requirements. We are also subject to increased scrutiny of compliance with the regulations issued and enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC. If our program is deemed deficient, we could be subject to liability, including fines, civil money penalties and other regulatory actions, which may include restrictions on our business operations and our ability to pay dividends, restrictions on mergers and acquisitions activity, restrictions on expansion, and restrictions on entering new business lines. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have significant reputational consequences for us. Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. There are risks with respect to future expansion and acquisitions or mergers. The Company may seek in the future to acquire other financial institutions or parts of those institutions. The Company may also expand into new markets or lines of business or offer new products or services. These activities would involve a number of risks, including:. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe time and expense associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners; \t\t\t \t\t  \t\t\t  \t\t\t  \t\t  \t\t\t \t\t\t• \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tusing inaccurate estimates and judgments to evaluate credit, operations, management, and market risks with respect to the target institution or assets; \t\t\t \t\t  \t\t\t  \t\t\t  \t\t  \t\t\t \t\t\t• \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdiluting our existing shareholders in an acquisition; \t\t\t \t\t  \t\t\t  \t\t\t  \t\t  \t\t\t \t\t\t• \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe time and expense associated with evaluating new markets for expansion, hiring experienced local management, and opening new offices; \t\t\t \t\t  \t\t\t  \t\t\t  \t\t  \t\t\t \t\t\t• \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ttaking a significant amount of time negotiating a transaction or working on expansion plans, resulting in management’s attention being diverted from the operation of our existing business; and. 23. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe time and expense associated with integrating the operations and personnel of the combined businesses, creating an adverse short-term effect on our results of operations.. There is also a risk that any expansion effort will not be successful.. Government regulation could restrict our ability to pay cash dividends. Dividends from the bank are the only significant source of cash for the Company. Statutory and regulatory limits could prevent the bank from paying dividends or transferring funds to the Company. As of December 31, 2017, MBC could have declared dividends of approximately $5.1 million in the aggregate to the Company, assuming the ODFI did not object. The Company cannot assure you that subsidiary bank profitability will continue to allow dividends to the Company, and the Company therefore cannot assure you that the Company will be able to continue paying regular, quarterly cash dividends. Until January 20, 2019, MBC cannot pay dividends to the Company unless MBC first obtains approval of the ODFI.. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, and such capital may not be available when needed or at all. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs, particularly if our asset quality or earnings were to deteriorate significantly. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial condition. Economic conditions and the loss of confidence in financial institutions may increase our cost of funding and limit access to certain customary sources of capital, including inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the discount window of the Federal Reserve.. We cannot assure that such capital will be available on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, depositors of counterparties participating in the capital markets, or a downgrade of the Company’s debt ratings, may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. Moreover, if we need to raise capital in the future, we may have to do so when many other financial institutions are also seeking to raise capital and would have to compete with those institutions for investors. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The value of our goodwill and core deposit intangible assets may decline in the future. As of December 31, 2017, we had $17.8 million of goodwill and core deposit intangible assets. A significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower growth rates or a significant and sustained decline in the price of the Company’s common stock may necessitate taking charges in the future related to the impairment of our goodwill and core deposit intangible assets. If we were to conclude that a future write-down of goodwill and core deposit intangible assets is necessary, we would record the appropriate charge, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Associated with the Company’s Common Stock. A limited trading market exists for our common shares which could lead to price volatility. Your ability to sell our common shares depends upon the existence of an active trading market for our common shares. While our stock is quoted on the NASDAQ Capital Market, there is low trading volume in our common stock. As a result, you may be unable to sell or purchase our common shares at the volume, price and time you desire. The limited trading market for our common shares may cause fluctuations in the market value of our common shares to be exaggerated, leading to price volatility in excess of that which would occur in a more active trading market. In addition, even if a more active market of our common stock develops, we cannot assure you that such a market will continue.. Factors that may affect the volatility of our stock include:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour actual or anticipated operating and financial results, including how those results vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in financial estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to other financial institution. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfailure to declare dividends on our common stock from time to time. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\treports in the press or investment community generally or relating to our reputation or the financial services industry. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdevelopments in our business or operations or in the financial sector generally. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tany future offerings by us of our common stock. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlegislative or regulatory changes affecting our industry generally or our business and operations specifically. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe operating and stock price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us. 24. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tannouncements of strategic developments, acquisitions, restructurings, dispositions, financings and other material events by us or our competitors. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\texpectations of (or actual) equity dilution, including the actual or expected dilution to various financial measures, including earnings per share, that may be caused by this offering. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactions by our current shareholders, including future sales of common shares by existing shareholders, including our directors and executive officers. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tproposed or final regulatory changes or developments. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tanticipated or pending regulatory investigations, proceedings, or litigation that may involve or affect us. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tother changes in U.S. or global financial markets, global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity, credit or asset valuations or volatility"                                                                                                                                                                          
