[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.. An investment in our securities is subject to risks inherent in our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included in this report. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value or market price of our securities could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Business. Our business is concentrated in and largely dependent upon the continued growth and welfare of the Iowa City and Minneapolis/St. Paul markets.. We operate primarily in the Iowa City, Iowa and Minneapolis/St. Paul, Minnesota markets and their surrounding communities in the upper-Midwest. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are significantly impacted by changes in the economic conditions in those areas. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the business activity, population, income levels, deposits and real estate activity in these markets. Although our customers' business and financial interests may extend well beyond these market areas, adverse economic conditions that affect these market areas could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us, affect the value of collateral underlying loans and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Because of our geographic concentration, we are less able than other regional or national financial institutions to diversify our credit risks across multiple markets.. We must manage our credit risk effectively.. There are risks inherent in making any loan, including risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers, risks of nonpayment, risks resulting from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral and cash flows available to service debt and risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions. We attempt to minimize our credit risk through prudent loan application approval procedures, careful monitoring of the concentration of our loans within specific industries and periodic independent. 14. Table of Contents. reviews of outstanding loans by our credit review department. We periodically examine our credit process and implement changes to improve our procedures and standards. However, we cannot assure you that such approval and monitoring procedures will reduce these credit risks.  If the overall economic climate in the United States, generally, or our market areas, specifically, declines, or even if it does not, our borrowers may experience difficulties in repaying their loans, and the level of nonperforming loans, charge-offs and delinquencies could rise and require increases in the provision for loan losses, which would cause our net income and return on equity to decrease.. The small to mid-sized businesses that we lend to may have fewer resources to weather adverse business developments, which may impair a borrower's ability to repay a loan.. We primarily serve the banking and financial services needs of small to mid-sized businesses.  These businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities, may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, and may experience volatility in operating results, any of which may impair a borrower's ability to repay a loan.  In addition, the success of a small and medium-sized business often depends on the management talents and efforts of one or two people or a small group of people, and the death, disability or resignation of one or more of these people could have a material adverse impact on the business and its ability to repay its loan. Should the economic conditions negatively impact the markets in which we operate, our borrowers may experience financial difficulties, and the level of nonperforming loans, charge-offs and delinquencies could rise, which could negatively impact our business.. Commercial, industrial and agricultural loans make up a significant portion of our loan portfolio.. Commercial, industrial and agricultural loans (including credit cards and commercially related overdrafts) were $609.1 million, or approximately 26.6% of our total loan portfolio, as of December 31, 2017. Our commercial loans are primarily made based on the identified cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. Most often, this collateral is accounts receivable, inventory and equipment. Credit support provided by the borrower for most of these loans and the probability of repayment is based on the liquidation value of the pledged collateral and enforcement of a personal guarantee, if any exists. As a result, in the case of loans secured by accounts receivable, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to collect amounts due from its customers. The collateral securing these loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. In addition, if the U.S. economy declines, this could harm the businesses of our commercial and industrial customers and reduce the value of the collateral securing these loans.. Payments on agricultural loans are dependent on the successful operation or management of the farm property. The success of the farm may be affected by many factors outside the control of the borrower, including adverse weather conditions that prevent the planting of a crop or limit crop yields (such as hail, drought and floods), loss of livestock due to disease or other factors, declines in market prices for agricultural products (both domestically and internationally) and the impact of government regulations (including changes in price supports, subsidies and environmental regulations). In addition, many farms are dependent on a limited number of key individuals whose injury or death may significantly affect the successful operation of the farm. If the cash flow from a farming operation is diminished, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired. The primary crops in our market areas are corn and soybeans. Accordingly, adverse circumstances affecting these crops could have an adverse effect on our agricultural portfolio. Likewise, agricultural operating loans involve a greater degree of risk than lending on residential properties, particularly in the case of loans that are unsecured or secured by rapidly depreciating assets such as farm equipment or assets such as livestock or crops. In these cases, any repossessed collateral for a defaulted loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance as a result of the greater likelihood of damage, loss or depreciation.. Our loan portfolio has a significant concentration of commercial real estate loans, which involve risks specific to real estate value.. Commercial real estate lending comprises a significant portion of our lending business. Specifically, commercial real estate loans were $1.17 billion, or approximately 51.3% of our total loan portfolio, as of December 31, 2017. Of this amount, $353.6 million, or approximately 15.5% of our total loan portfolio, are loans secured by owner-occupied property. The market value of real estate securing our commercial real estate loans can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time as a result of market conditions in the geographic area in which the real estate is located. Although a significant portion of such loans is secured by real estate as a secondary form of repayment, adverse developments affecting real estate values in one or more of our markets could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio. Additionally, real estate lending typically involves higher loan principal amounts, and the repayment of the loans generally is dependent, in large part, on sufficient income from the properties securing the loans to cover operating expenses and debt service. Economic events or governmental regulations outside of the control of the borrower or lender could negatively impact the future cash flow and market values of the affected properties.. 15. Table of Contents. If problems develop in the commercial real estate sector, particularly within one or more of our markets, the value of collateral securing our commercial real estate loans could decline. In such case, we may not be able to realize the amount of security that we anticipated at the time of originating the loan, which could cause us to increase our provision for loan losses and adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and/or capital. In light of the continued general uncertainty that exists in the economy and credit markets nationally, we may experience deterioration in the performance of our commercial real estate loan customers.. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio.. We establish our reserve or \"allowance\" for loan losses at a level considered appropriate by management to absorb probable loan losses based on an analysis of the portfolio, market environment and other factors we deem relevant.   The allowance for loan losses represents our estimate of probable losses in the portfolio at each balance sheet date and is based upon relevant information available to us. The allowance contains an allocation for probable losses that have been identified relating to specific borrowing relationships, as well as probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio and credit undertakings that are not specifically identified. Additions to the allowance for loan losses, which are charged to earnings through the provision for loan losses, are determined based on a variety of factors, including an analysis of the loan portfolio, historical loss experience and an evaluation of current economic conditions in our market areas. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Although management has established an allowance for loan losses it believes is adequate to absorb probable and reasonably estimable losses in our loan portfolio, the allowance may not be adequate. We could sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than the amount of our allowance for loan losses. Higher loan losses could arise for a variety of reasons, including changes in economic, operating and other conditions within our markets, as well as changes in the financial condition, cash flows, and operations of our borrowers.. At December 31, 2017, our allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total gross loans was 1.23% and as a percentage of total nonperforming loans was approximately 117.59%. Although management believes that the allowance for loan losses is appropriate to absorb probable loan losses on any existing loans that may become uncollectible, we cannot predict loan losses with certainty, and we cannot assure you that our allowance for loan losses will prove sufficient to cover actual loan losses in the future. We may be required to make additional provisions for loan losses in the future to supplement the allowance for loan losses, either due to management's decision to do so or because our banking regulators require us to do so. If we experience significant charge-offs in future periods or charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we may need additional provisions to replenish the allowance for loan losses. An increase in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, most likely, capital, and may have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Loan losses in excess of our reserves may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Nonperforming assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and could result in further losses in the future.. As of December 31, 2017, our nonperforming loans (which consist of nonaccrual loans, loans past due 90 days or more and still accruing interest and loans modified under troubled debt restructurings, and excluded purchased credit impaired loans) totaled $23.9 million, or 1.04% of our loan portfolio, and our nonperforming assets (which include nonperforming loans plus other real estate owned) totaled $25.9 million, or 1.13% of loans. In addition, we had $8.4 million in accruing loans (not included in the nonperforming loan totals) that were 31-89 days delinquent as of December 31, 2017.. Our nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on nonaccrual loans or other real estate owned, thereby adversely affecting our net income and returns on assets and equity, increasing our loan administration costs and adversely affecting our efficiency ratio. When we take collateral in foreclosure and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the collateral to its then-fair market value, which may result in a loss. These nonperforming loans and other real estate owned also increase our risk profile and the capital our regulators believe is appropriate in light of such risks. The resolution of nonperforming assets requires significant time commitments from management and can be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities. If we experience increases in nonperforming loans and nonperforming assets, our net interest income may be negatively impacted and our loan administration costs could increase, each of which could have an adverse effect on our net income and related ratios, such as return on assets and equity.. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information provided by customers and counterparties.. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that. 16. Table of Contents. information. In deciding whether to extend credit, we may rely upon our customers' representations that their financial statements conform to U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (\"GAAP\") and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. We also may rely on customer representations and certifications, or other audit or accountants' reports, with respect to the business and financial condition of our clients. Our financial condition, results of operations, financial reporting and reputation could be negatively affected if we rely on materially misleading, false, inaccurate or fraudulent information.. We may encounter issues with environmental law compliance if we take possession, through foreclosure or otherwise, of the real property that secures a loan.. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. In the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property's value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Adverse weather affecting the markets we serve could hurt our business and prospects for growth.. Substantially all of our business is conducted in the states of Iowa and Minnesota, and a significant portion is conducted in rural communities. The upper-Midwest economy, in general, is heavily dependent on agriculture and therefore the economy, and particularly the economies of the rural communities that we serve, can be greatly affected by severe weather conditions, including hail, droughts, storms, tornadoes and flooding. Unfavorable weather conditions may decrease agricultural productivity or could result in damage to our branch locations or the property of our customers, all of which could adversely affect the local economy, which would negatively affect our profitability.. We are subject to interest rate risk, which could adversely affect our financial condition and profitability.. Shifts in short-term interest rates may reduce net interest income, which is the principal component of our earnings.  Net interest income is the difference between the amounts received by us on our interest-earning assets and the interest paid by us on our interest-bearing liabilities.  When interest rates rise, the rate of interest we pay on our liabilities such as deposits, may rise more quickly than the rate of interest that we receive on our interest bearing assets, such as loans, which could cause our profits to decrease.  The impact on earnings can be more adverse when the slope of the yield curve flattens, that is, when short-term interest rates increase more than long-term interest rates or when long-term interest rates decrease more than short-term interest rates.. Changes in interest rates also can affect the value of loans, securities and other assets. An increase in interest rates that adversely affects the ability of borrowers to pay the principal or interest on loans may lead to an increase in nonperforming assets and a reduction of income recognized, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Further, when we place a loan on nonaccrual status, we reverse any accrued but unpaid interest receivable, which decreases interest income. Subsequently, we continue to have a cost to fund the loan, which is reflected as interest expense, without any interest income to offset the associated funding expense. Thus, an increase in the amount of nonperforming assets would have an adverse impact on net interest income.. Rising interest rates will likely result in a decline in value of our fixed-rate debt securities. Any unrealized losses resulting from holding these securities are recognized in other comprehensive income (or net income, if the decline is other-than- temporary), and reduce total shareholders' equity. Unrealized losses do not negatively impact our regulatory capital ratios; however, tangible common equity and the associated ratios used by many investors would be reduced. If debt securities in an unrealized loss position are sold, such losses become realized and will reduce our regulatory capital ratios.. In late 2015, the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee began the process of raising short-term interest rates from near-zero levels, however, the overall level of interest rates remains low.   If short-term interest rates remain at these low levels for a prolonged period, and assuming longer term interest rates do not increase, we could experience net interest margin compression as our rates on our interest earning assets would decline while rates on our interest-bearing liabilities could fail to decline in tandem. Furthermore, if short-term interest rates continue to increase and long-term interest rates do not rise, or increase but at a slower rate, we could experience net interest margin compression as our rates on interest-earning assets decline measured relative to rates. 17. Table of Contents. on our interest-bearing liabilities. Any such occurrence could have a material adverse effect on our net interest income and on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We measure interest rate risk under various rate scenarios and using specific criteria and assumptions. A summary of this process, along with the results of our net interest income simulations, is included at  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk under \"Interest Rate Risk.\" Although we believe our current level of interest rate sensitivity is reasonable and effectively managed, significant fluctuations in interest rates may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Liquidity risks could affect operations and jeopardize our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our most important source of funds consists of customer deposits.  Deposit balances can decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, provide a better risk/return trade-off.  If customers move money out of bank deposits and into other investments, we could lose a relatively low cost source of funds, which would require us to seek other, potentially higher cost funding alternatives.  Other primary sources of funds consist of cash from operations, investment securities maturities and sales, and funds from sales of our stock. Additional liquidity is provided by brokered deposits, bank lines of credit, repurchase agreements and the ability to borrow from the Federal Reserve Bank and the FHLB. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance or capitalize our activities or on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us directly or the financial services industry or economy in general, such as disruptions in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry.. Any decline in available funding could adversely impact our ability to originate loans, invest in securities, pay our expenses, pay dividends to our shareholders, or fulfill obligations such as repaying our borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may desire or be required to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available.. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We intend to grow our business organically and to explore opportunities to grow our business by taking advantage of attractive acquisition opportunities, and such growth plans may require us to raise additional capital to ensure that we have adequate levels of capital to support such growth on top of our current operations. In order to accommodate future capital needs we maintain a universal shelf registration statement, which allowed for future sale up to $75 million of securities. During the first and second quarters of 2017, we utilized the shelf registration and issued an additional 750,000 shares of common stock resulting in $24.4 million of new capital for the Company, net of expenses, leaving approximately $49.3 million of securities available to be issued under our shelf registration statement. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, including investor perceptions regarding the banking industry, market conditions and governmental activities, and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed or desired, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed or desired, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth or acquisitions could be materially impaired.. We face the risk of possible future goodwill impairment.. We performed a valuation analysis of our goodwill, $64.7 million related to our acquisition of Central, as of October 1, 2017, and the analysis indicated no impairment existed. We will be required to perform additional goodwill impairment assessments on at least an annual basis, and perhaps more frequently, which could result in goodwill impairment charges. Any future goodwill impairment charge on the current goodwill balance, or future goodwill arising out of acquisitions that we are required to take, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations by reducing our net income or increasing our net losses.. We could recognize losses on securities held in our securities portfolio, particularly if interest rates increase or economic and market conditions deteriorate.. As of December 31, 2017, the fair value of our securities portfolio was approximately $642.0 million. Factors beyond our control can significantly influence the fair value of securities in our portfolio and can cause potential adverse changes to the fair value of these securities. For example, fixed-rate securities acquired by us are generally subject to decreases in market value when interest rates rise. Additional factors include, but are not limited to, rating agency downgrades of the securities, defaults by the issuer or individual mortgagors with respect to the underlying securities, and instability in the credit markets. Any of the foregoing factors could cause an other-than-temporary impairment in future periods and result in realized losses. The process for determining whether impairment is other-than-temporary usually requires subjective judgments about the future financial. 18. Table of Contents. performance of the issuer and any collateral underlying the security in order to assess the probability of receiving all contractual principal and interest payments on the security. Because of changing economic and market conditions affecting interest rates, the financial condition of issuers of the securities and the performance of the underlying collateral, we may recognize realized and/ or unrealized losses in future periods, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Downgrades in the credit rating of one or more insurers that provide credit enhancement for our state and municipal securities portfolio may have an adverse impact on the market for, and valuation of, these types of securities.. We invest in tax-exempt and taxable state and local municipal securities, some of which are insured by monoline insurers. As of December 31, 2017, we had $268.3 million of municipal securities (recorded values), which represented 41.7% of our total securities portfolio. Following the onset of the financial crisis, several of these insurers came under scrutiny by rating agencies. Even though management generally purchases municipal securities on the overall credit strength of the issuer, the reduction in the credit rating of an insurer may negatively impact the market for and valuation of our investment securities. Such a downgrade could adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability to pay dividends is subject to certain limitations and restrictions, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to continue paying the same level of dividends in the future that we have paid in the past or that we will be able to pay future dividends at all.. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by regulatory restrictions and the need to maintain sufficient consolidated capital. The ability of the Bank to pay dividends to us is limited by its obligations to maintain sufficient capital and liquidity and by other general restrictions on dividends that are applicable to the Bank, including the requirement under the Iowa Banking Act that the Bank may not pay dividends in excess of its undivided profits. If these regulatory requirements are not met, the Bank will not be able to pay dividends to us, and we may be unable to pay dividends on our common stock.. In addition, as a bank holding company, our ability to declare and pay dividends is subject to the guidelines of the Federal Reserve regarding capital adequacy and dividends. The Federal Reserve guidelines generally require us to review the effects of the cash payment of dividends on common stock and other Tier 1 capital instruments (i.e., perpetual preferred stock and trust preferred debt) in light of our earnings, capital adequacy and financial condition. As a general matter, the Federal Reserve indicates that the board of directors of a bank holding company (including a financial holding company) should eliminate, defer or significantly reduce the Company's dividends if:. • the company's net income available to shareholders for the past four quarters, net of dividends previously paid during that period, is not sufficient to fully fund the dividends;. • the prospective rate of earnings retention is inconsistent with the company's capital needs and overall current and prospective financial condition; or. • the company will not meet, or is in danger of not meeting, its minimum regulatory capital adequacy ratios.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $23.8 million of junior subordinated debentures held by three statutory business trusts that we control. Interest payments on the debentures, which totaled $0.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, must be paid before we pay dividends on our capital stock, including our common stock. We have the right to defer interest payments on the debentures for up to 20 consecutive quarters. However, if we elect to defer interest payments, all deferred interest must be paid before we may pay dividends on our capital stock.. Our ability to attract and retain management and key personnel may affect future growth and earnings.. Much of our success and growth has been influenced by our ability to attract and retain management experienced in banking and financial services and familiar with the communities in our market areas. Our ability to retain our executive officers, current management teams, branch managers and loan officers will continue to be important to the successful implementation of our strategy. It is also critical, as we grow, to be able to attract and retain qualified additional management and loan officers with the appropriate level of experience and knowledge about our market areas to implement our operating strategy. The Dodd-Frank Act also directs the Federal Reserve to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives. These rules, when adopted, may make it more difficult to attract and retain the people we need to operate our businesses and limit our ability to promote our objectives through our compensation and incentive programs. The unexpected loss of services of any key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 19. Table of Contents. We face intense competition in all phases of our business from banks and other financial institutions.. The banking and financial services businesses in our markets are highly competitive. Our competitors include large regional banks, local community banks, savings and loan associations, securities and brokerage companies, mortgage companies, insurance companies, finance companies, money market mutual funds, small local credit unions as well as large aggressive and expansion-minded credit unions, and other non-bank financial services providers. Many of these competitors are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as we are. Many of our unregulated competitors compete across geographic boundaries and are able to provide customers with a competitive alternative to traditional banking services.. Increased competition in our markets may result in a decrease in the amounts of our loans and deposits, reduced spreads between loan rates and deposit rates or loan terms that are more favorable to the borrower. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow and remain profitable. If increased competition causes us to significantly discount the interest rates we offer on loans or increase the amount we pay on deposits, our net interest income could be adversely impacted. If increased competition causes us to modify our underwriting standards, we could be exposed to higher losses from lending activities. Additionally, many of our competitors are much larger in total assets and capitalization, have greater access to capital markets, have larger lending limits and offer a broader range of financial services than we can offer.. Consumers and businesses are increasingly using non-banks to complete their financial transactions, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Technology and other changes are allowing consumers and businesses to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks through alternative methods. For example, the wide acceptance of Internet-based commerce has resulted in a number of alternative payment processing systems and lending platforms in which banks play only minor roles. Customers can now maintain funds in prepaid debit cards or digital currencies, and pay bills and transfer funds directly without the direct assistance of banks. The diminishing role of banks as financial intermediaries has resulted and could continue to result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the potential loss of lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have a continuing need for technological change, and we may not have the resources to effectively implement new technology.. The financial services industry continues to undergo rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to enabling us to better serve our customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and the potential for cost reduction. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations as we continue to grow our market share. Many of our larger competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. As a result, they may be able to offer additional or superior products to those that we will be able to offer, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Accordingly, we cannot provide you with assurance that we will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing such products and services to our customers.. The occurrence of fraudulent activity, breaches or failures of our information security controls or cybersecurity-related incidents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. As a bank, we are susceptible to fraudulent activity, information security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents that may be committed against us or our clients, which may result in financial losses or increased costs to us or our clients, disclosure or misuse of our information or our client information, misappropriation of assets, privacy breaches against our clients, litigation or damage to our reputation.  Such fraudulent activity may take many forms, including check fraud, electronic fraud, wire fraud, phishing, social engineering and other dishonest acts.  Information security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents may include fraudulent or unauthorized access to systems used by us or our clients, denial or degradation of service attacks and malware or other cyber-attacks.. In recent periods, there continues to be a rise in electronic fraudulent activity, security breaches and cyber-attacks within the financial services industry, especially in the commercial banking sector due to cyber criminals targeting commercial bank accounts.  Moreover, in recent periods, several large corporations, including financial institutions and retail companies, have suffered major data breaches, in some cases exposing not only confidential and proprietary corporate information, but also sensitive financial and other personal information of their customers and employees and subjecting them to potential fraudulent activity.. 20. Table of Contents. Some of our clients may have been affected by these breaches, which could increase their risks of identity theft and other fraudulent activity that could involve their accounts with us.. Information pertaining to us and our clients is maintained, and transactions are executed, on networks and systems maintained by us and certain third party partners, such as our online banking, mobile banking or accounting systems.  The secure maintenance and transmission of confidential information, as well as execution of transactions over these systems, are essential to protect us and our clients against fraud and security breaches and to maintain the confidence of our clients.  Breaches of information security also may occur through intentional or unintentional acts by those having access to our systems or the confidential information of our clients, including employees.  In addition, increases in criminal activity levels and sophistication, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries, vulnerabilities in third party technologies (including browsers and operating systems) or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology, processes and controls that we use to prevent fraudulent transactions and to protect data about us, our clients and underlying transactions, as well as the technology used by our clients to access our systems.  Our third party partners' inability to anticipate, or failure to adequately mitigate, breaches of security could result in a number of negative events, including losses to us or our clients, loss of business or clients, damage to our reputation, the incurrence of additional expenses, disruption to our business, additional regulatory scrutiny or penalties or our exposure to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. We depend on information technology and telecommunications systems of third parties, and any systems failures, interruptions or data breaches involving these systems could adversely affect our operations and financial condition.. Our business is highly dependent on the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems, third party servicers, accounting systems, mobile and online banking platforms and financial intermediaries.  We outsource to third parties many of our major systems, such as data processing and mobile and online banking.  The failure of these systems, or the termination of a third party software license or service agreement on which any of these systems is based, could interrupt our operations.  Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third party systems fail or experience interruptions.  A system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to process loans or gather deposits and provide customer service, compromise our ability to operate effectively, result in potential noncompliance with applicable laws or regulations, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business or subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.  In addition, failures of third parties to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or fraud or misconduct on the part of employees of any of these third parties, could disrupt our operations or adversely affect our reputation.. It may be difficult for us to replace some of our third party vendors, particularly vendors providing our core banking and information services, in a timely manner if they are unwilling or unable to provide us with these services in the future for any reason and even if we are able to replace them, it may be at higher cost or result in the loss of customers.  Any such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. Our operations rely heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of information and the monitoring of a large number of transactions on a minute-by-minute basis, and even a short interruption in service could have significant consequences.  We also interact with and rely on retailers, for whom we process transactions, as well as financial counterparties and regulators. Each of these third parties may be targets of the same types of fraudulent activity, computer break-ins and other cyber security breaches described above, and the cyber security measures that they maintain to mitigate the risk of such activity may be different than our own and may be inadequate.. As a result of financial entities and technology systems becoming more interdependent and complex, a cyber incident, information breach or loss, or technology failure that compromises the systems or data of one or more financial entities could have a material impact on counterparties or other market participants, including ourselves.  As a result of the foregoing, our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by any significant disruptions to us or to third parties with whom we interact.. We are subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, customer or employee fraud and data processing system failures and errors.. Employee errors and employee and customer misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. Misconduct by our employees could include hiding unauthorized activities from us, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of our customers or improper use of confidential information. It is not always possible to prevent. 21. Table of Contents. employee errors and misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Employee errors could also subject us to financial claims for negligence.. We maintain a system of internal controls and insurance coverage to mitigate against operational risks, including data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. Should our internal controls fail to prevent or detect an occurrence, and if any resulting loss is not insured or exceeds applicable insurance limits, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to changes in accounting principles, policies or guidelines.. Our financial performance is impacted by accounting principles, policies and guidelines. Some of these policies require the use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or liabilities and financial results. Some of our accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. If such estimates or assumptions underlying our financial statements are incorrect, we may experience material losses.. From time to time, the FASB and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards or the interpretation of those standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes are beyond our control, can be difficult to predict and could materially impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in these standards are continuously occurring, and given recent economic conditions, more drastic changes may occur. The implementation of such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. A new accounting standard may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The FASB has adopted a new accounting standard that will be effective for the Company and the Bank for our first fiscal year after December 15, 2019. This standard, referred to as Current Expected Credit Loss, or CECL, will require financial institutions to determine periodic estimates of lifetime expected credit losses on loans, and recognize the expected credit losses as allowances for loan losses. This will change the current method of providing allowances for loan losses that are probable, which may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, and to greatly increase the types of data we will need to collect and review to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or expenses incurred to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to us.. Our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss to us. We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which we are subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, compensation risk, legal and compliance risk, and reputational risk, among others. However, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to our risk management strategies as there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified. Our ability to successfully identify and manage risks facing us is an important factor that can significantly impact our results. If our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected.. Our internal controls may be ineffective. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our reputation could be damaged by negative publicity.. Reputational risk, or the risk to our business, financial condition or results of operations from negative publicity, is inherent in our business. Negative publicity can result from actual or alleged conduct in a number of areas, including legal and regulatory compliance, lending practices, corporate governance, litigation, inadequate protection of customer data, ethical behavior of our. 22. Table of Contents. employees, and from actions taken by regulators, ratings agencies and others as a result of that conduct. Damage to our reputation could impact our ability to attract new or maintain existing loan and deposit customers, employees and business relationships.. We have counterparty risk and therefore we may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions.. Our ability to engage in routine funding and other transactions could be negatively affected by the actions and the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are generally interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, credit or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties and regularly engage in transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks and other institutional customers. Many of these transactions may expose us to credit or other risks if another financial institution experiences adverse circumstances. In certain circumstances, the collateral that we hold may be insufficient to fully cover the risk that a counterparty defaults on its obligations, which may cause us to experience losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be adversely affected by risks associated with completed and potential acquisitions, including execution risks, failure to realize anticipated transaction benefits, and failure to overcome integration risks, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability.. We plan to continue to grow our businesses organically but remain open to considering potential bank or other acquisition opportunities that make financial and strategic sense. In the event that we do pursue acquisitions, we may have difficulty executing on acquisitions and may not realize the anticipated benefits of any transaction we complete. Any of the foregoing matters could materially and adversely affect us.. In any acquisition that we complete, we may fail to realize some or all of the anticipated transaction benefits if the integration process takes longer or is more costly than expected or otherwise fails to meet our expectations.  Acquisition activities could be material to our business and involve a number of risks, including the following:. • We may incur time and expense associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and negotiating potential transactions, resulting in our attention being diverted from the operation of our existing business;. • We are exposed to potential asset and credit quality risks and unknown or contingent liabilities of the banks or businesses we acquire. If these issues or liabilities exceed our estimates, our earnings, capital and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected.. • The acquisition of other entities generally requires integration of systems, procedures and personnel of the acquired entity. This integration process is complicated and time consuming and can also be disruptive to the customers and employees of the acquired business and our business. If the integration process is not conducted successfully, we may not realize the anticipated economic benefits of acquisitions within the expected time frame, or ever, and we may lose customers or employees of the acquired business. We may also experience greater than anticipated customer losses even if the integration process is successful.. • To finance an acquisition, we may borrow funds or pursue other forms of financing, such as issuing voting and/or non-voting common stock or convertible preferred stock, which may have high dividend rights or may be highly dilutive to holders of our common stock, thereby increasing our leverage and diminishing our liquidity, or issuing capital stock, which could dilute the interests of our existing shareholders.. • We may be unsuccessful in realizing the anticipated benefits from acquisitions. For example, we may not be successful in realizing anticipated cost savings. We also may not be successful in preventing disruptions in service to existing customer relationships of the acquired institution, which could lead to a loss in revenues.. In addition to the foregoing, we may face additional risks in acquisitions to the extent we acquire new lines of business or new products, or enter new geographic areas, in which we have little or no current experience, especially if we lose key employees of the acquired operations. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with acquisitions. Our inability to overcome risks associated with acquisitions could have an adverse effect on our ability to successfully implement our acquisition growth strategy and grow our business and profitability.. Risks Relating to the Regulation of our Industry. We operate in a highly regulated industry and the laws and regulations to which we are subject, or changes in them, or our failure to comply with them, may adversely affect us.. The Company and the Bank are subject to extensive regulation by multiple regulatory agencies. These regulations may affect the manner and terms of delivery of our services. If we do not comply with governmental regulations, we may be subject. 23. Table of Contents. to fines, penalties, lawsuits or material restrictions on our businesses in the jurisdiction where the violation occurred, which may adversely affect our business operations. Changes in these regulations can significantly affect the services that we provide, as well as our costs of compliance with such regulations. In addition, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation arising from the failure or perceived failure to comply with legal, regulatory or contractual requirements could affect our ability to attract and retain customers.. There is uncertainty surrounding the potential legal, regulatory and policy changes by the current presidential administration in the U.S. that may directly affect financial institutions and the global economy.. The current presidential administration has indicated it would like to reduce the burdens associated with certain financial reform regulations including the Dodd-Frank Act, which has increased regulatory uncertainty.  Changes in federal policy and at regulatory agencies are expected over time through policy and personnel changes, which could lead to changes in the level of oversight of the financial services industry.  The nature, timing and economic and political effects of potential changes to the current legal and regulatory framework affecting financial institutions is uncertain, and at this time, it is unclear whether future changes will adversely affect our operating environment and therefore our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Legislative and regulatory reforms applicable to the financial services industry may have a significant impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, imposed new capital requirements on bank holding companies; changed the base for FDIC insurance assessments to a bank's average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity, rather than its deposit base; permanently raised the current standard deposit insurance limit to $250,000; and expanded the FDIC's authority to raise the premiums we pay for deposit insurance. The Dodd-Frank Act established the CFPB as an independent entity within the Federal Reserve. This entity has broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement authority over consumer financial products and services, including deposit products, residential mortgages, home-equity loans and credit cards and contains provisions on mortgage-related matters such as steering incentives, determinations as to a borrower's ability to repay and prepayment penalties. However, the CFPB experienced a leadership change in late 2017, which is subject to ongoing litigation and may impact the CFPB's policies and supervision and enforcement efforts. Moreover, the Dodd-Frank Act included provisions that affect corporate governance and executive compensation at all publicly traded companies.. In addition, the Company and the Bank are subject to the Basel III Rule. The Basel III Rule became effective on January 1, 2015 with a phase-in period through 2019 for many of the new rules. The Basel III Rule also expanded the definition of capital by establishing additional criteria that capital instruments must meet to be considered Additional Tier 1 Capital (i.e., Tier 1 Capital in addition to Common Equity) and Tier 2 Capital. A number of instruments that previously generally qualified as Tier 1 Capital do not qualify or their qualifications changed upon the effectiveness of the Basel III Rule. The Basel III Rule maintained the general structure of the prompt corrective action thresholds while incorporating the increased requirements, including the Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio. In order to be a \"well-capitalized\" depository institution under the Basel III Rule, an institution must maintain a Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio of 6.5% or more, a Tier 1 Capital ratio of 8% or more, a Total Capital ratio of 10% or more, and a leverage ratio of 5% or more. Institutions must also maintain a capital conservation buffer consisting of Common Equity Tier 1 Capital.. These provisions, as well as any other aspects of current or proposed regulatory or legislative changes to laws applicable to the financial industry, impact the profitability of our business activities and may change certain of our business practices, including the ability to offer new products, obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans, and achieve satisfactory interest spreads, and could expose us to additional costs, including increased compliance costs. These changes also may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes to operations in order to comply, and could therefore also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition to being affected by general economic conditions, our earnings and growth are affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve. An important function of the Federal Reserve is to regulate the money supply and credit conditions. Among the instruments used by the Federal Reserve to implement these objectives are open market operations in U.S. government securities, adjustments of the discount rate and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. These instruments are used in varying combinations to influence overall economic growth and the distribution of credit, bank loans, investments and deposits. Their use also affects interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits.. 24. Table of Contents. The monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve have had a significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. The effects of such policies upon our business, financial condition and results of operations cannot be predicted.. Federal and state regulators periodically examine our business, and we may be required to remediate adverse examination findings.. The Federal Reserve, the FDIC, and the Iowa Division of Banking periodically examine our business, including our compliance with laws and regulations. If, as a result of an examination, a banking agency were to determine that our financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity or other aspects of any of our operations had become unsatisfactory, or that we were in violation of any law or regulation, they may take a number of different remedial actions as they deem appropriate. These actions include the power to enjoin \"unsafe or unsound\" practices, to require affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to issue an administrative order that can be judicially enforced, to direct an increase in our capital, to restrict our growth, to assess civil money penalties, to fine or remove officers and directors and, if it is concluded that such conditions cannot be corrected or there is an imminent risk of loss to depositors, to terminate our deposit insurance and place our bank into receivership or conservatorship. Any regulatory action against us could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to numerous laws designed to protect consumers, including the CRA and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to a wide variety of sanctions.. The CRA requires our bank, consistent with safe and sound operations, to ascertain and meet the credit needs of its entire community, including low and moderate income areas. Our bank's failure to comply with the CRA could, among other things, result in the denial or delay of certain corporate applications filed by us or our bank, including applications for branch openings or relocations and applications to acquire, merge or consolidate with another banking institution or holding company. In addition, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act and other fair lending laws and regulations prohibit discriminatory lending practices by financial institutions. The U.S. Department of Justice, federal banking agencies, and other federal agencies are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. A challenge to an institution's compliance with fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, restrictions on mergers and acquisitions activity, restrictions on expansion, and restrictions on entering new business lines. Private parties may also challenge an institution's performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation. Such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. Non-compliance with the USA PATRIOT Act, the Bank Secrecy Act or other laws and regulations could result in fines or sanctions against us.. The USA PATRIOT Act and the Bank Secrecy Act require financial institutions to design and implement programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. If such activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of the Treasury. These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Federal and state bank regulators also have focused on compliance with Bank Secrecy Act and anti-money laundering regulations. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or sanctions, including restrictions on conducting acquisitions or establishing new branches. In recent years, several banking institutions have received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations. While we have developed policies and procedures designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations, these policies and procedures may not be effective in preventing violations of these laws and regulations. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. There is a limited trading market for our common shares, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid for them.. Although our common shares are listed for quotation on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, the trading in our common shares has substantially less liquidity than many other companies listed on Nasdaq. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the market of willing buyers and sellers of our common shares at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. We cannot assure you that the volume of trading in our common shares will increase in the future.. 25. Table of Contents. The stock market can be volatile, and fluctuations in our operating results and other factors could cause our stock price to decline.. The stock market has experienced, and may continue to experience, fluctuations that significantly impact the market prices of securities issued by many companies. Market fluctuations could adversely affect our stock price. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations, as well as general economic, systemic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, loss of investor confidence, interest rate changes, or international currency fluctuations, may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Moreover, our operating results may fluctuate and vary from period to period due to the risk factors set forth herein. As a result, period-to-period comparisons should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Our stock price could fluctuate significantly in response to our quarterly or annual results, annual projections and the impact of these risk factors on our operating results or financial position.. Certain shareholders own a significant interest in the company and may exercise their control in a manner detrimental to your interests.. Certain MidWestOne shareholders who are descendants of our founder collectively control approximately 23.0% of our outstanding common stock. These shareholders may have the opportunity to exert influence on the outcome of matters required to be submitted to shareholders for approval. In addition, the significant level of ownership by these shareholders may contribute to the rather limited liquidity of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market."
