[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following factors that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or the price of our common stock. The following information should be read together and in conjunction with \"Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,\" \"Item 1. Business,\" \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes thereto. The risks below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or the price of our common stock.. Demand for our products is affected by general economic conditions, including our customers' industries and capital expenditures, consumer spending trends and other macroeconomic conditions.. Our business is affected by general economic conditions. Any uncertainty or adverse changes such as turmoil in global economic and political conditions, including through rising interest rates or inflation, commodity prices, high unemployment, increased volatility in global capital markets, international conflicts, sovereign debt concerns and/or other factors beyond our control, could lead to a significant decline in demand for our products. In addition, the success of our business depends on the profitability of our customers' businesses. Many of our customers are in businesses that are cyclical in nature and sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, such as the packaging, automotive, industrial machinery, construction, consumer goods, electronics and medical industries. The performance of our business is directly related to the production levels of our customers. In particular, prices for plastic resins used to make plastic products and parts tend to fluctuate to a greater degree than our customers can adjust for in the pricing of their products. When resin prices increase, our customers' profit margins decrease, which may result in lower demand for our products. Therefore, our business is affected by fluctuations in the price of resin, which could have an adverse effect on our business and ability to generate operating cash flows.. In addition, deterioration in the credit quality of our customers or the estimated residual value of our equipment could negatively impact the ability of our customers to obtain the resources they need to make purchases of our equipment. If our customers cannot access credit markets or do not utilize discretionary funds to purchase our products and services as a result of the economy or other factors, our business could suffer. Moreover, any prolonged periods of decline in our customers' capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. If the use of plastic declines, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Approximately 90% of our 2017 sales were realized from the sale of equipment and services to the plastic processing market. A reduction in the usage of plastic would likely result in the reduction of our sales of equipment and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Factors that could result in a decline in the usage of plastic include, but are not limited to the following:. • The relative cost of plastic compared with other materials, such as glass, metal and paper. The principal cost of plastic is petroleum-based resins and fluctuations in the price of crude oil and natural gas typically impact the price of these resins. If the price of plastic resins were to increase substantially or the cost associated with other competing materials such as glass, metal and paper, were to materially decrease, the plastic products of our customers may no longer be economically competitive relative to other alternatives.. • The environmental impact of plastic may be perceived negatively by environmental groups, customers and government regulators. A number of governmental authorities and advocacy groups have lobbied for and considered, or are expected to consider, legislation aimed at addressing the environmental impacts of plastic. These proposals have included mandating certain rates of recycling and/or the use of recycled materials, imposing deposits or taxes on plastic packaging material, requiring retailers or manufacturers to develop a recycling infrastructure and increased scrutiny on the use of plastic. Legislative and other changes aimed at reducing the environmental impact of plastic may result in increased costs associated with plastic and/or reduced demand for plastic.. Any of the foregoing factors as well as other factors, including those unknown to us, could result in a decline in the usage of plastic which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 9. Table of Contents. We operate in highly competitive industries, many of which are currently subject to intense price competition, and if we are unable to compete successfully, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Many of the industries in which we operate are highly competitive. Our products may not compete successfully with those of our competitors. The markets for plastic processing equipment and related products, mold components and metalworking fluids are highly competitive and include a number of North American, European and Asian competitors. Principal competitive factors in the plastic processing industry include price, product features, technology, performance, reliability, quality, delivery and customer service. Principal competitive factors in the mold components industry include technology, price, quality, performance and delivery. Principal competitive factors in the metalworking industrial fluids industry include price, market coverage, technology, performance, delivery and customer service.. Our competitors may be positioned to offer more favorable pricing to customers, resulting in reduced profitability and a loss of market share for us. In certain cases we have lost business to competitors who offered prices lower than ours. Competition may also limit our ability to pass on the effects of increases in our cost structure. In addition, some of our competitors may have greater financial resources and less debt than we do, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage in the future. These competitors may be better able to withstand and respond to changes in conditions within our industry.. Competition in any of these areas may reduce our sales and adversely affect our earnings and/or cash flow by resulting in decreased sales volumes, reduced prices and increased costs of manufacturing, distributing and selling our products.. Our results also depend on the successful implementation of several additional strategic initiatives. We may not be able to implement these strategies successfully, on a timely basis, or at all.. We have implemented and continue to implement several strategic initiatives that are designed to increase our cost savings and revenue, transform our business and improve our performance. These initiatives include expanding low-cost production capabilities and consolidation of facilities, continued back-office integration to a shared service center and implementation of lean sourcing initiatives. The success of our recent initiatives is subject to both the risks affecting our business generally and the inherent difficulty associated with implementing these initiatives, and is largely dependent on the skills, experience, and efforts of our management and other employees. We face a number of uncertainties in connection with the successful implementation of these strategic initiatives. As a result, we may not be successful in implementing these initiatives nor realize anticipated cost savings and increases in sales. If we are unsuccessful in implementing these initiatives, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.. Increases in our cost structure or disruption in our supply chain could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.. Our costs are subject to fluctuations, particularly for raw materials and purchased components used in our business, including the cost of labor and steel and the cost of oil and chemicals used in the production of metalworking fluids. Our success is dependent, in part, upon our ability to manage these fluctuations through pricing actions, cost savings projects and global sourcing actions. While we have historically responded by reducing our cost structure and increasing the prices we charge our customers, these measures may not always be sufficient to offset the effects of the cost increases we experience. Accordingly, market changes in raw material and purchased component prices could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.. Additionally, we have developed a network of third-party vendors who supply certain parts and components for our products. While we currently believe that these third-party vendors represent a low-cost source of supply, their costs could rise in the future and we may not be able to effectively source or produce these components and parts. Significant disruptions to our supply chain could limit our ability to source parts and components on a cost effective basis, if at all, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our significant international operations subject us to risks such as unfavorable political, regulatory, labor and tax conditions.. Our business is subject to risks related to the different legal, political, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of many jurisdictions. We have operations in many foreign countries, including, but not limited to, countries in Europe and Asia. For the year ended December 31, 2017, markets outside North America represented the following percentages of our sales: Asia 26%; Europe 20%; and the rest of the world 3%. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, approximately 72% of our workforce was located outside the United States.. 10. Table of Contents. Additional risks associated with our international operations include, but are not limited to the following:. • agreements may be difficult to enforce and receivables difficult to collect through a foreign country's legal system;. • foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, attempt to impose transfer taxes on past or future corporate level transactions, impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including currency exchange controls;. • general economic and political conditions or instability in the countries in which we operate could have an adverse effect on our earnings from operations in those countries;. • restrictions on or costs relating to the repatriation of foreign profits to the United States, including possible taxes or withholding obligations;. • differing, and possibly more stringent, labor regulations;. • natural disasters, pandemics or international conflict, including terrorist acts, could interrupt the manufacturing of our products or performance of services, endanger our personnel or cause delays;. • enforcement of anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, (the \"FCPA\"), the U.K. Bribery Act (the \"UKBA\") and similar laws, economic sanctions laws, regulations and regimes (including those administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (\"OFAC\") of the U.S. Department of the Treasury), and other international laws and regulations;. • the difficulties of staffing and managing dispersed international operations;. • less protective foreign intellectual property laws;. • unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements may occur;. • longer customer payment cycles; and. • legal systems that may be less developed and less predictable than those in the United States.. We are also subject to numerous regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including customs and international trade laws, export control, antitrust laws and zoning and occupancy laws that regulate producers generally and/or govern the importation, exportation, promotion and sale of our products, the operation of facilities and our relationships with our customers, suppliers and competitors. If these regulations or laws were to change or were violated by our management, employees, suppliers or agents, the costs of certain goods could increase, or we could experience delays in shipments of our goods, be subjected to fines or penalties or suffer reputational harm, any of which could reduce demand for our products and negatively impact our business and results of operations. In addition, changes in national and local minimum wage laws and other laws relating to employee benefits could cause us to incur additional wage and benefits costs, which could negatively impact our profitability.. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing and unpredictable legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions. We may not be able to continue to succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies that will be effective in each foreign market where we do business. Any of the foregoing factors may have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate cash flow and grow our business.. Our operations partly depend on the rate of economic development and growth in the emerging markets of Asia, Africa, Central America and South America.. Our operations partly depend upon the economies of the Asian, African, Central American and South American markets. These markets include countries with economies in various stages of development or structural reform, some of which are subject to rapid fluctuations in terms of consumer prices, employment levels, gross domestic product, interest rates and foreign exchange rates. Our operations in these markets may also be subject to risks relating to weak legal systems which may affect our ability to enforce our intellectual property and contractual rights, exchange controls, unstable governments and privatization, changes in customs or tax regimes, or other government actions affect the flow of goods and currency. To the extent such fluctuations and risks have an effect on the ability of our consumers to pay for our products, the growth of sales of our products in such markets could be impacted negatively.. 11. Table of Contents. Our operations are conducted worldwide and our results of operations are subject to currency translation risk and currency transaction risk that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Since a significant portion of our sales are made in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, our financial results are affected by currency fluctuations. The financial condition and results of operations of each of our foreign operating subsidiaries are reported in the relevant local currency and then translated to U.S. dollars at the applicable currency exchange rate for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. Exchange rates between these currencies, including the Canadian dollar, the Euro, Chinese yuan renminbi, Indian rupee and the U.S. dollar in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may do so in the future.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 48% of our sales were in currency other than the U.S. dollar. Significant changes in the value of the Canadian dollar, Euro, Chinese yuan renminbi and Indian rupee relative to the U.S. dollar could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If the Canadian dollar, Euro, Chinese yuan renminbi or Indian rupee should weaken against the U.S. dollar in the future, we will experience a negative effect in translating our new orders, sales and earnings when compared to historical results. In addition to currency translation risks, we incur currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a different currency from the currency in which it records sales. See \"Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk - Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk.\" Given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be able to effectively manage our currency transaction and translation risks and any volatility in currency exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We might not be able to timely develop, manufacture and gain market acceptance of new and enhanced products required to maintain or expand our business.. Our success in the future will depend in part upon our ability to maintain and enhance our technological capabilities, develop and market products and applications that meet changing customer needs and successfully anticipate or respond to technological changes of our competitors in a cost-effective and timely manner. Difficulties or delays in identifying viable new products, research, development or production of new products or failure to gain regulatory approval, intellectual property protection or market acceptance of new products and technologies may reduce future sales and adversely affect our competitive position. Our competitors may develop other patent technologies that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or future technologies or render our technologies or services less competitive or obsolete. Our inability to anticipate, respond to or utilize changing technologies could cause us to lose customers.. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted by business disruptions, security threats and security breaches.. Business disruptions, including supply disruptions, increasing costs for energy, temporary plant and/or power outages and network disruptions, could harm our operations as well as the operations of our customers, distributors or suppliers. In addition, the operation of our business relies on information technology (\"IT\") infrastructure and systems on multiple platforms to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to support a variety of business processes and activities. We face security threats and risks of security breaches to our facilities, data and IT infrastructure. Although it is impossible to predict the occurrence or consequences of business disruptions, security threats or security breaches, they could harm our reputation, subject us to material liabilities, result in reduced demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products to our customers or distributors or to receive raw materials from suppliers, compromise our networks, subject us to liability or regulatory penalty under laws protecting the privacy of personal information and create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain. Further, the failure of our systems to perform could severely disrupt our business and adversely affect our results of operations. Our systems are also vulnerable to natural or man-made disasters, computer viruses or hackers, power loss or other technology system failures. We may also be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future. These events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights and our products could infringe on the intellectual property of others, which could harm our future success and competitive position.. Our future success and competitive position depend in part upon our ability to obtain and maintain certain proprietary technologies used in our principal products. We may not always be successful in preventing the unauthorized use of our existing intellectual property rights by our competitors. We may not be able to discover unauthorized use of our proprietary technologies in the future or be able to receive any payments therefor. If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property, it may result in the loss of valuable technologies or require us to make payments to other companies for infringing on their intellectual property rights. We generally rely on patent, trade secret and copyright laws as well as confidentiality agreements with other parties to protect our technologies; however, some of our technologies may not be adequately protected. Confidentiality agreements may be breached or terminated, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. A third party could copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology without authorization.. 12. Table of Contents. Additionally, third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us based on their patents or other intellectual property rights. Litigation may be necessary for us to defend against claims of infringement or to protect our intellectual property rights and could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our efforts. Further, we might not prevail in such litigation, which could harm our business and could result in us having to obtain a license to sell our products or pay substantial royalties. Our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We have applied for patent protection relating to certain existing and proposed products, processes and services. While we generally apply for patents in those countries where we intend to make, have made, use, or sell patented products, we may not accurately predict all of the countries where patent protection will ultimately be desirable. If we fail to timely file a patent application in any such country, we may be precluded from doing so at a later date. The patents issued as a result of our foreign patent applications may not have the same scope of coverage as our U.S. patents. Further, competitors may infringe on our patents and we may not have adequate resources to enforce our patents. We may also have any of the following occur:. • any of our patents could be invalidated, circumvented or challenged;. • any of our pending or future patent applications could fail to be issued within the scope of the claims sought by us, if at all, and patents issued from such applications may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage;. • others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technologies, duplicate our technologies or design around our patents; or. • steps taken by us to protect our technologies may not prevent misappropriation of such technologies.. We also own or have rights to various trademark registrations and trademark registration applications in the United States and certain international jurisdictions that we use in connection with our business. Monitoring unauthorized use of our trademarks is difficult and expensive, and we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our trademark rights in all jurisdictions, particularly in countries whose laws do not grant the same protections as the United States grants.. Our financial results are impacted by unpredictable customer purchasing trends and the timing of converting orders into sales can lead to variations in, and uncertainties regarding, our financial results from period to period.. Sales of our plastic processing machinery products are subject to customer buying patterns and can vary from period to period. We sometimes have sales to customers that are large relative to our sales in any given period. Fluctuations in demand for our plastic processing machinery products due to large unpredictable sales to customers and delays or failures to fulfill purchase orders could lead to variations in, and uncertainties regarding, our financial results from period to period. In addition, our plastic processing machinery sales are impacted by the timing of orders and the length of time required to convert these unshipped orders, or backlog, into sales, which varies based on the type of customer and product and can range from several weeks to several months.. Our inability to satisfy orders on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and the conversion of our backlog and open orders into sales may occur at a slower rate than historical trends.. Our backlog as of December 31, 2017 was $287.0 million. This backlog is based upon anticipated sales revenue from confirmed orders. The majority of our plastic processing machinery products are produced after a price has been agreed to, an order has been received and a deposit has been paid by our customers and generally require delivery within a specified period of time. If we are unsuccessful in recruiting skilled labor, experience delays in purchase component deliveries or experience changes in customer specifications on ordered equipment, the rate at which backlog or open orders are converted into sales may be slower than we have historically experienced. If it takes longer than expected to realize sales, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, any failure to deliver products on a timely basis could result in our customers cancelling their orders, requesting discounts or ceasing to do business with us altogether. Furthermore, the portion of our backlog that may be produced in our foreign subsidiaries is exposed to fluctuations in the applicable foreign currencies, which may be material. The historical relationship of backlog to sales actually realized by us should not be considered indicative of future results. See \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - New Orders and Backlog.\". 13. Table of Contents. Our operations depend on our ability to maintain production at our facilities.. Our operations may be subject to disruption due to extreme weather conditions, floods, fire, natural disaster, war, terrorist activity, sustained mechanical failure and similar events, major industrial accidents, strikes and lockouts, new laws or regulations, changes in interpretations of existing laws or regulations or changes in governmental enforcement policies, regulatory actions and other events. Any disruption resulting from any of these events could cause significant delays in shipments of products and the loss of sales and customers and we may not have insurance to adequately compensate us. Our facilities and the manufacturing equipment located in our facilities would be difficult to replace and could require substantial replacement lead time. Furthermore, due to the concentration of our operations, a closure of one of our manufacturing facilities could have a substantial negative effect on our results of operations. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any prolonged interruption of all or a substantial portion of our business.. If our products fail to perform or fail to meet customer requirements or expectations, we could incur significant additional costs.. The production of some of our products involves highly complex processes. Our customers specify quality, performance and reliability standards that we must meet. If our products do not meet these standards, we may be required to replace or rework the products. In some cases, our products may contain undetected defects or flaws that only become evident after shipment. In the past, we have proactively replaced parts in the field that have experienced a high rate of failure.. We also may be the target of product liability lawsuits. If a person were to bring a product liability suit against one of our customers, this customer may attempt to seek contribution from us. A person may also bring a product liability claim directly against us. A successful product liability claim or series of claims against us in excess of our insurance coverage for payments, for which we are not otherwise indemnified, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to continue to maintain our existing insurance or obtain comparable insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all, in the event a significant product or service claim arises. A significant product liability case could also result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation and a loss of customer confidence in our products.. We could be subject to litigation that could have an adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation.. From time to time we are a defendant in or otherwise a party to certain lawsuits and other proceedings that result from, and are incidental to, the conduct of our business. These suits and proceedings may concern issues including product liability, employment, antitrust, warranty and contractual disputes, environmental matters, and intellectual property matters. In addition, various factors or developments can lead to changes in current estimates of liabilities such as a final adverse judgment, significant settlement or changes in applicable law. A future adverse ruling or unfavorable development could result in future charges that could have a material adverse effect on us. While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of all pending or future suits, claims and proceedings, the ultimate resolution of these matters could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation.. Our business depends on attracting and retaining qualified management personnel.. The unanticipated departure of any key member of our management team could have an adverse effect on our business. Given our relative size and the breadth of our global operations, there are a limited number of qualified management personnel to assume the responsibilities of management level employees should there be management turnover. Our success depends to a significant extent upon a number of key employees, including members of senior management. The loss of the services of one or more of these key employees could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and prospects. In addition, because of the specialized and technical nature of our business, our future performance depends on the continued service of, and our ability to attract and retain qualified management, commercial and technical personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we may be unable to continue to attract or retain such personnel to support our growth and operational initiatives and replace executives who retire or resign. Failure to retain our leadership team and attract and retain other important management and technical personnel could place a constraint on our growth and operational initiatives, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales, results of operations and product development efforts and eventually result in a decrease in profitability.. 14. Table of Contents. Our operations may subject us to potential responsibilities and costs under environmental laws that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our operations are subject to environmental and health and safety laws, regulations and permitting requirements in the United States and abroad relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those governing discharges of pollutants to the air, soil and water, the management, treatment, storage and disposal of, and exposure to, solid and hazardous substances and wastes, the investigation and clean-up of contaminated sites and the protection of employee health and safety. Environmental, health and safety regulations and standards are becoming increasingly strict, which could require us to make potentially significant capital or operating expenditures to comply with such standards. In addition, we could incur significant costs, including fines and sanctions, and claims by third parties for property damage and personal injury, as a result of violations of these laws and regulations.. Certain environmental laws, in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (\"CERCLA\"), in the United States, impose joint and several liability for cleanup costs, without regard to fault, on current and former owners of property that has been impacted by a release of a hazardous substance or on persons who have disposed of, arranged for the disposal of or released hazardous substances into the environment. We have been involved in remedial investigations and actions at various locations, and could in the future become involved in such matters at current or former facilities or off-site disposal sites. An adverse result in any potential future matter could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations.. Terrorist attacks, other acts of violence or war, natural disasters, political unrest or other uncommon global events may affect the markets in which we operate and our profitability.. Terrorist attacks, other acts of violence or war, natural disasters, political unrest or other uncommon global events may negatively affect our operations. There could be further terrorist attacks against the United States or other locations where we do business. Also, other uncommon global events, such as earthquakes, fires and tsunamis, cannot be predicted. Terrorist attacks, other acts of violence or armed conflicts and natural disasters may directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers. Additional terrorist attacks or natural disasters may disrupt the global insurance and reinsurance industries with the result that we may not be able to obtain insurance at historical terms, pricing and levels for all of our operations.. Furthermore, any of these events may make travel and the transportation of our supplies and products more difficult and more expensive and ultimately affect the sales of our products. The consequences of terrorist attacks, other acts of violence or armed conflicts, natural disasters or other uncommon global events are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events, such as these, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Work stoppages or unionization activities could disrupt our operations.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 550 members (9% of our total number of employees) of our European workforce belong to work councils or are otherwise subject to labor agreements. These employees are primarily members of the European Works Council, as is standard practice in the region. None of our other employees were represented by unions, although it is possible that our workforce will become unionized in the future. Unionization activities could increase our costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We may be subject to work stoppages and may be affected by other labor disputes. A work stoppage at one or more of our plants may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, a work stoppage at one or more of our customers or our customers' suppliers could materially adversely affect our operations if an alternative source of supply were not readily available. Stoppages by employees of our customers also could result in reduced demand for our products and have a material adverse effect on our business.. Governmental authorities may question our intercompany transfer pricing policies or change their laws in a manner that could increase our effective tax rate or otherwise harm our business.. As a U.S. company doing business in international markets through subsidiaries, we are subject to foreign tax and intercompany transfer pricing laws, including those relating to the flow of funds between the parent and subsidiaries. Regulators in the United States and in foreign markets closely monitor our corporate structure and how we account for intercompany fund transfers. If regulators challenge our corporate structure, transfer pricing mechanisms or intercompany transfers, our operations may be negatively affected and our effective tax rate may increase. Tax rates vary from country to country and if regulators determine that our profits in one jurisdiction should be increased, we may not be able to fully utilize all foreign tax credits that are generated, which would increase our effective tax rate. We may not be in compliance with all applicable exchange control and transfer pricing laws despite our efforts to be aware of and to comply with such laws. Further, if these laws change, we may need to adjust our operating procedures, and our business could be materially and adversely affected.. 15. Table of Contents. We are exposed to a number of different tax uncertainties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We are required to pay taxes in multiple jurisdictions. We determine the tax liability we are required to pay based on our interpretation of applicable tax laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate.. We may be subject to unfavorable changes, including retroactive changes, in the tax laws and regulations to which we are subject. For example, on December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"Tax Act\") was signed into law in the United States. The changes in the Tax Act are broad and complex and we continue to examine the impact the Tax Act may have on our business and financial results. Among its many provisions, the Tax Act reduces the corporate tax rate to 21%, repeals the alternative minimum tax, limits the interest deduction, enhances the expensing of capital investments, implements a dividend exemption system, eliminates the deferral of foreign earnings, provides a minimum tax on low-taxed foreign earnings and new measures to deter base erosion. In accordance with applicable SEC guidance, we recorded a provisional net income tax benefit in the fourth quarter of 2017 resulting from the enactment of the Tax Act. This provisional benefit is subject to change, possibly materially, due to, among other things, changes in estimates, interpretations and assumptions we have made, changes in Internal Revenue Service interpretations, the issuance of new guidance, legislative actions, changes in accounting standards or related interpretations in response to the Tax Act and future actions by states within the United States that have not currently adopted the Tax Act.. We are subject to tax audits by governmental authorities in the United States and numerous non-U.S. jurisdictions, which are inherently uncertain. Negative or unexpected results from one or more such tax audits could adversely affect our results of operations. Tax controls and changes in tax laws or regulations or the interpretation given to them may expose us to negative tax consequences, including interest payments and potential penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards might be limited.. As of December 31, 2017, we had net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $136.5 million for U.S. federal income tax purposes.  These loss carryforwards will expire in varying amounts through 2029.  To the extent these net operating loss carryforward are available, we intend to use them to reduce the corporate income tax liability associated with our operations. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (\"Section 382\") generally imposes an annual limit on the amount of net operating loss carryforwards that might be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in stock ownership. As a result, prior or future changes in ownership could put limitations on the availability of our net operating loss carryforwards. In addition, our ability to use the current net operating loss carryforwards might be further limited by the issuance of common stock in the future. To the extent our use of net operating loss carryforwards is significantly limited, our income could be subject to corporate income tax earlier than it would if we were able to use net operating loss carryforwards, which could result in lower profits.. We have determined that we have experienced multiple ownership changes under Section 382 in prior years. As of December 31, 2017, we have not completed a formal study to determine whether there are Section 382 limitations as a result of ownership changes that occurred during the year ended December 31, 2017.  Depending on the results of that study, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We have a history of net losses and may not maintain profitability in the future.. We have not been consistently profitable on a quarterly or annual basis. While we generated net earnings of $1.1 million and $30.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we incurred a net loss of $38.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. We have historically incurred net losses and may continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. We may not be able to sustain or increase our growth or profitability in the future. We may incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including the other risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additionally, we may encounter unforeseen operating expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other unknown factors that may result in losses in future periods. If these losses exceed our expectations or our growth expectations are not met in future periods, our financial performance will be affected adversely.. 16. Table of Contents. Downturns in the economy and disruptions in the financial and credit markets may negatively affect our ability to raise capital to fund capital expenditures, pursue proposed expansion or acquisition opportunities or refinance our indebtedness.. Our businesses are capital intensive. We rely on earnings and cash flow from operations to finance our business, capital expenditures, expansion and acquisitions and, to the extent that we cannot fund such expenditures from cash generated by operations, funds must be borrowed or otherwise obtained. We will also be required in the future to refinance our outstanding debt. Downturns in the economy and disruptions in the financial and credit markets have periodically made it more difficult and more expensive to raise capital. Our ability to effectively operate and grow our businesses may be constrained if we are unable to borrow additional capital or refinance existing borrowings on reasonable terms. If we do not have access to credit or capital markets at desirable times or at rates that we would consider acceptable, the lack of such funding could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to service our indebtedness.. If we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, or if events occur that damage our reputation and brand, our ability to maintain and expand our base of customers may be impaired, and our business and financial results may be harmed.. We believe that the Milacron brand has significantly contributed to the success of our business. We also believe that maintaining and enhancing our brand is critical to maintaining and expanding our base of customers. Maintaining and enhancing our brand will depend largely on our ability to continue to provide useful, reliable, trustworthy and innovative products, which we may not do successfully. We may introduce new products or technologies that do not meet the market demand, which may negatively affect our brand. We have in the past experienced, and we expect that in the future we will continue to experience, media, legislative, or regulatory scrutiny of our impact on the environment, which may adversely affect our reputation and brand. We also may fail to provide adequate customer service, which could erode confidence in our brand. Maintaining and enhancing our brand may require us to make substantial investments and these investments may not be successful. As part of our broader branding and marketing strategy we may choose to consolidate or change product brands which may result in us incurring impairment charges. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain the Milacron brand or if we incur excessive expenses or impairment charges in this effort, our business and financial results may be adversely affected.. We are subject to anti-corruption statutes and a number of U.S. regulations, and if we fail to comply with such statutes and regulations it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As a global business, we are subject to anti-bribery laws and regulations of the U.S. government and those of various international and subnational jurisdictions, and our failure to successfully comply with these rules and regulations may expose us to liabilities. These laws and regulations apply to companies, individual directors, officers, employees and agents, and may restrict our operations, trade practices, investment decisions and partnering activities. In particular, our international operations are subject to U.S. and foreign anti-corruption laws and regulations, such as the FCPA and the UKBA, as well as anti-corruption laws of the various jurisdictions in which we operate. The FCPA and other laws prohibit us and our officers, directors, employees and agents acting on our behalf from corruptly offering, promising, authorizing or providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purposes of influencing official decisions or obtaining or retaining business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. As part of our business, we deal with state-owned business enterprises, the employees and representatives of which may be considered foreign officials for purposes of the FCPA. We are subject to the jurisdiction of various governments and regulatory agencies outside of the United States, which may bring our personnel into contact with foreign officials responsible for issuing or renewing permits, licenses or approvals or for enforcing other governmental regulations. In addition, some of the international locations in which we operate lack a developed legal system and have elevated levels of corruption. Our global operations expose us to the risk of violating, or being accused of violating, the foregoing or other anti-corruption laws. Such violations could be punishable by criminal fines, imprisonment, civil penalties, disgorgement of profits, injunctions and debarment from government contracts, as well as other remedial measures. Investigations of alleged violations can be very expensive and disruptive. If we have been determined to be in violation of the FCPA, the UKBA or other anti-corruption laws, we could be subject to significant fines, penalties, repayments, other damages (in certain cases, treble damages) which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business activities are also subject to various restrictions under U.S. export controls and trade and economic sanctions laws, including the U.S. Commerce Department's Export Administration Regulations and economic and trade sanctions regulations maintained by OFAC. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties and reputational harm, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 17. Table of Contents. Goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets represent a significant portion of our total assets, and we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets.. As of December 31, 2017, goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets were approximately $867.5 million, or 46.7% of our total assets. Goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets are recorded at fair value on the date of acquisition. In accordance with the guidance under Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") ASC 350-20, \"Intangibles - Goodwill and Other,\" we review such assets at least annually for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of or affect the products and services we sell, challenges to the validity of certain registered intellectual property, reduced sales of certain products incorporating registered intellectual property and a variety of other factors. The amount of any quantified impairment must be expensed immediately as a charge to results of operations. Depending on future circumstances, it is possible that we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. Any future determination of impairment of goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. Our growth strategy may include acquisitions, and we may not be able to execute on our acquisition strategy or integrate acquisitions successfully which could materially adversely affect our business.. As part of our growth strategy, we may consider the acquisition of other companies, assets and product lines that either complement or expand our existing business and create economic value. We continually evaluate potential acquisition opportunities in the ordinary course of business, including those that could be material in size and scope. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks, which may include:. • the diversion of management's time and attention from other business concerns to the assimilation of the acquired companies and their employees and on the management of expanding operations;. • the use of debt to finance acquisitions, increasing the risk that we may be unable to satisfy our financial obligations;. • the incorporation of acquired products into our product line;. • the disruption of existing supplier or customer relationships and the difficulty of presenting a unified corporate image;. • the increasing demands on our operational systems and integration costs, which may be greater than expectations;. • difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies throughout acquired companies;. • increased regulatory scrutiny as a result of perceived concentration in certain markets;. • the impact of accounting requirements relating to business combinations, including the requirement to expense certain acquisition costs as incurred, which may cause us to experience greater earnings volatility and generally lower earnings during period in which we acquire new businesses; and. • difficulties in retaining key employees, customers or suppliers of the acquired business.. We may become responsible for unexpected liabilities that we failed or were unable to discover in the course of performing due diligence in connection with any future acquisitions. Any indemnification rights we obtain in the future may not be enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset the possible liabilities associated with the business or property acquired. Any of these liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. In addition, any acquisition, once successfully integrated, may not perform as planned, be accretive to earnings or prove to be beneficial to our operations and cash flow. The costs of such integration could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 18. Table of Contents. Our business and reputation could suffer if we are unable to protect our information systems against, or effectively respond to, cybersecurity incidents or if our information systems are otherwise disrupted.. We depend on information technology, including public websites, for many activities important to our business, including to enable and improve the effectiveness of our operations, to order and manage materials from suppliers, to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, to comply with regulatory, financial reporting, legal and tax requirements, to collect and store sensitive data and confidential information, and to communicate electronically among our global operations and with our employees and the employees of our suppliers and other third parties. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain our IT infrastructure, if we fail to timely identify or appropriately respond to cybersecurity incidents, or if our information systems are damaged, destroyed or shut down (whether as a result of natural disasters, fires, power outages, acts of terrorism or other catastrophic events, network outages, software, equipment or telecommunications failures, user errors, or from deliberate cyberattacks such as malicious or disruptive software, denial of service attacks, malicious social engineering, hackers or otherwise), our business could be disrupted and we could, among other things, be subject to: transaction errors; processing inefficiencies; the loss of, or failure to attract new, customers; the loss of revenues from unauthorized use, acquisition or disclosure of or access to confidential information; the loss of or damage to intellectual property or trade secrets, including the loss or unauthorized disclosure of sensitive data, confidential information or other assets; damage to our reputation; litigation; regulatory enforcement actions; violation of data privacy, security or other laws and regulations; and remediation costs. Further, our information systems and the information stored therein, could be compromised by, and we could experience similar adverse consequences due to unauthorized outside parties intent on accessing or extracting sensitive data or confidential information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes or by inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees or agents. Similar risks exist with respect to the third-party vendors we rely upon for aspects of our IT support services and administrative functions, including payroll processing, health and benefit plan administration and certain finance and accounting functions.. Many factors may adversely affect the price of our common stock and our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Many factors may adversely affect the price of our common stock and our business, financial condition or results of operations. Such factors, some of which are beyond our control, may include, but are not limited to: unfavorable economic conditions; changes in financial or tax reporting and changes in accounting principles or practices that materially affect our reported financial condition and results; investor perceptions of our performance; actions by shareholders or others seeking to influence our business strategies; speculation by the media or investment community regarding our business; trading activity in our common stock or trading activity in derivative instruments with respect to our common stock; and the impact of our share repurchase programs or dividend rate. In addition, corporate actions, such as those we may or may not take from time to time as part of our continuous review of our corporate structure, including as a result of business, legal and tax considerations, may not have the impact we intend and may adversely affect the price of our common stock and our business, financial condition or results of operations. The above factors, as well as other risks included in this \"Item 1A. Risk Factors,\" could adversely affect the price of our common stock and our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to obtain financing in the future and to react to changes in our business.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $945.1 million aggregate principal amount of senior debt outstanding, including $937.5 million under our senior secured term loan facility due September 2023 (the \"2017 Term Loan Facility\"). We also had $64.9 million (excluding approximately $29.1 million of undrawn letters of credit) of availability under our senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility (the \"ABL Facility\") and $13.1 million of undrawn availability under other lines of credit, in each case subject to borrowing base or other limitations.. Our substantial indebtedness could limit our ability to satisfy our obligations and operate our business and could also impair our competitive position. For example, it could:. • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under the ABL Facility or the 2017 Term Loan Facility;. • increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and general industry conditions, including interest rate fluctuations, because a portion of our borrowings are and will continue to be at variable rates of interest;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or other general corporate purposes;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in general economic conditions or in our business and industry;. • place us at a disadvantage compared to competitors that may have proportionately less debt;. 19. Table of Contents. • limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing due to applicable financial and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements; and. • increase our cost of borrowing.. Despite our current indebtedness levels and restrictive covenants, we and our subsidiaries may still incur significant additional indebtedness. Incurring more indebtedness could increase the risks associated with our current, substantial indebtedness.. Certain agreements governing our indebtedness, including the credit agreements governing our ABL Facility and our 2017 Term Loan Facility, contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, subject to specified conditions and limitations. Under certain circumstances, the amount of indebtedness, including senior secured indebtedness, we could incur in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Additionally, these restrictions may not prevent us from incurring obligations that, although preferential to our common stock in terms of payment, do not constitute indebtedness. If we add new debt to our outstanding debt levels, the risks relating to our indebtedness would increase. If we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage and the ability to service such debt would increase. See \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources.\". The credit agreements governing our ABL Facility and 2017 Term Loan Facility impose significant operating and financial restrictions on Milacron LLC and its subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities.. The credit agreements governing our ABL Facility and 2017 Term Loan Facility impose significant operating and financial restrictions on the issuers of such indebtedness and their restricted subsidiaries. These restrictions limit the ability of Milacron LLC and its restricted subsidiaries, among other things, to:. • incur, assume or permit to exist additional indebtedness (including guarantees thereof);. • pay dividends or certain other distributions on their capital stock or repurchase our capital stock or prepay subordinated indebtedness;. • incur liens on assets;. • make certain investments or other restricted payments;. • allow to exist certain restrictions on the ability of the restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to the issuers of such indebtedness;. • engage in transactions with affiliates;. • sell certain assets or merge or consolidate with or into other companies;. • guarantee indebtedness; and. • alter the business that we conduct.. In addition, our ABL Facility contains a financial covenant requiring Milacron LLC and its restricted subsidiaries to maintain a 1.0 to 1.0 minimum trailing four quarter fixed charge coverage ratio, to be tested at any time that excess availability under the ABL Facility decreases to a level below the greater of 12.5% of the aggregate revolver commitments and $13.75 million, until the date on which excess availability exceeds the greater of 12.5% of the aggregate revolver commitments and $13.75 million for 30 consecutive days.. As a result of these covenants and restrictions, we will be limited in how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. The terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. As of December 31, 2017, we were in compliance with all of the covenants under our debt instruments. However, we may not be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, we may not be able to obtain waivers from the applicable lenders or noteholders and/or amend the covenants. A breach of any of these covenants could result in an event of default under one or more of the credit agreements governing the ABL Facility and the 2017 Term Loan Facility and, if not cured or waived, could give the holders of the defaulted debt a right to accelerate such debt. Acceleration of any of our debt could result in cross-defaults under our other debt instruments.. 20. Table of Contents. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness."
