[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected by the following risks or uncertainties. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material, but they are not the only risks and uncertainties we face. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies, including overall economic and industry conditions, as well as other risks not currently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial. If any of such risks and uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could differ materially from the plans, projections and other forward-looking statements included in the section titled \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other public filings.. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry. If we are unable to attract new customers and retain existing customers, our business and results of operations will be affected adversely.. To succeed, we must continue to attract new customers and retain existing customers who desire to use our security, continuity and archiving offerings. Acquiring new customers is a key element of our continued success, growth opportunity and future revenue. We will continue to invest in a direct sales force combined with a focused channel strategy designed to serve the various requirements of small, mid-market and large enterprises and to bring new customers onto our cloud architecture. Any failures by us to execute in these areas will negatively impact our business.  The rate at which new and existing customers purchase our products depends on a number of factors, including those outside of our control. For example, in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, we benefited from the decision by Intel Corporation to end-of-life its McAfee MX Logic email protection product.  Our future success also depends on retaining our current customers at acceptable retention levels. Our retention rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, some of which may be outside our control, including competition, customers' budgeting and spending priorities, and overall general economic conditions. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions for our products and services, our revenue would decline and our business would suffer. In future periods, our total customers and revenue could decline or grow more slowly than we expect.. If we are unable to sell additional services and features to our existing customers, our future revenues and operating results will be harmed.. A significant portion of our revenue growth is generated from sales of additional services and features to existing customers. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to sell such additional services and features to our existing customers. We devote significant efforts to developing, marketing and selling additional services and features and associated support services to existing customers and rely on these efforts for a portion of our revenue. These efforts require a significant investment in building and maintaining customer relationships, as well as significant research and development efforts in order to provide upgrades and launch new services and features. The rate at which our existing customers purchase additional services and features depends on a number of factors, including the perceived need for additional security, continuity and archiving, the efficacy of our current services, the perceived utility of our new offerings, our customers' IT budgets and general economic conditions. If our efforts to sell additional services and features to our customers are not successful, our future revenues and operating results will be harmed.. Failure to effectively expand our sales and marketing capabilities could harm our ability to acquire new customers and achieve broader market acceptance of our services.. Acquiring new customers and expanding sales to existing customers will depend to a significant extent on our ability to expand our sales and marketing operations. We generate approximately one-third of our revenue from direct sales and we expect to continue to rely on our sales force to obtain new customers and grow revenue from our existing customer base. We expect to expand our sales force in all of our regions and we face a number of challenges in achieving our hiring goals. For instance, there is significant competition for sales personnel with the sales skills and technical knowledge that we require. In addition, training and integrating a large number of sales and marketing personnel in a short period of time requires the allocation of significant internal resources. Our ability to achieve projected growth in revenue in the future will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining sufficient numbers of sales personnel. We invest significant time and resources in training new sales personnel to understand our solutions and growth strategy. In general, new hires require significant training and substantial experience before becoming productive. Our recent hires and planned hires may not become as productive as we require, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the future in the markets where we currently operate or where we seek to conduct business. Our growth may be materially and adversely impacted if the efforts to expand our sales and marketing capabilities are not successful or if they do not generate a sufficient increase in revenue.. 16. Our business depends substantially on customers renewing their subscriptions with us. A decline in our customer renewals would harm our future operating results.. In order for us to maintain or improve our operating results, it is important that our customers renew their subscriptions with us when the existing subscription term expires. Although the majority of our customer contracts include auto-renew provisions, our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions upon expiration, and we cannot provide assurance that customers will renew subscriptions at the same or higher level of service, if at all. For each of the fiscal years ended March 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, our customer retention rate has been consistently greater than 90%. We calculate customer retention rate as the percentage of paying customers on the last day of the relevant period in the prior year who remain paying customers on the last day of the relevant period in the current year. The rate of customer renewals may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including our customers' satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our solutions, the effectiveness of our customer support services, our pricing, the prices of competing products or services, mergers and acquisitions affecting our customer base, or reductions in our customers' spending levels. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions, or renew on less favorable terms, our revenue may decline, and we may not realize improved operating results from our customer base.. The markets in which we participate are highly competitive, with several large established competitors, and our failure to compete successfully would make it difficult for us to add and retain customers and would reduce or impede the growth of our business.. Our market is large, highly competitive, fragmented and subject to rapidly evolving technology, shifting customer needs and frequent introductions of new products and services. We currently compete with companies that offer products that target email and data security, continuity and archiving, as well as large providers such as Google Inc. and Microsoft Corporation, which offer functions and tools as part of their core mailbox services that may be, or be perceived to be, similar to ours. Our current and potential future competitors include: Barracuda Networks, Inc., Google, Microsoft Exchange Online Protection, Proofpoint, Inc., Symantec Corporation and Cisco Systems Inc., in security, and EMC, Microsoft Office 365®, Veritas Technologies LLC and Barracuda in archiving. We expect competition to increase in the future from both existing competitors and new companies that may enter our markets. Additionally, some potential customers, particularly large enterprises, may elect to develop their own internal products. If two or more of our competitors were to merge or partner with one another, the change in the competitive landscape could reduce our ability to compete effectively. Our continued success and growth depends on our ability to out-perform our competitors at the individual service level as well as increasing demand for a unified service infrastructure. We cannot guarantee that we will out-perform our competitors at the product level or that the demand for a unified service technology will increase.. Some of our current competitors have, and our future competitors may have, certain competitive advantages such as greater name recognition, longer operating history, larger market share, larger existing user base and greater financial, technical and other resources. Some competitors may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services than we can to ours, which could allow them to respond more quickly than we can to new technologies and changes in customer needs. We cannot assure you that our competitors will not offer or develop products or services that are superior to ours or achieve greater market acceptance.. Data security and integrity are critically important to our business, and breaches of our information and technology networks and unauthorized access to a customer's data could harm our business and operating results.. We have experienced, and will continue to experience, cyberattacks and other malicious internet-based activity, which continue to increase in sophistication, frequency and magnitude. Because our services involve the storage of large amounts of our customers' sensitive and proprietary information, solutions to protect that information from cyberattacks and other threats, data security and integrity are critically important to our business. Despite all of our efforts to protect this information, we cannot provide assurance that systems that access our services and databases will not be compromised or disrupted, whether as a result of criminal conduct, distributed denial of service, or DDoS, attacks, such as the one we experienced in September 2015, or other advanced persistent attacks by malicious actors, including hackers, state-backed hackers and cybercriminals, breaches due to employee error or malfeasance, or other disruptions during the process of upgrading or replacing computer software or hardware, power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication or utility failures or natural disasters or other catastrophic events. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently or may be designed to remain dormant until a predetermined event and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. Though it is difficult to determine what harm may directly result from any specific interruption or breach, unauthorized access to or disclosure of confidential information, disruption, including DDoS attacks, or the perception that the confidential information of our customers is not secure, any of these events could result in a material loss of business, substantial legal liability or significant harm to our reputation. Further, any mandatory regulatory disclosures regarding a security breach, unauthorized access to or disclosure of confidential information often lead to widespread negative publicity, which may cause our customers to lose confidence in the effectiveness of our data security measures.. 17. We must continually monitor and develop our information technology networks and infrastructure to prevent, detect, address and mitigate the risk of unauthorized access and expend significant resources to respond to threats to security. However, despite our efforts, we may fail to identify these new and complex methods of attack, or fail to invest sufficient resources in security measures. In addition, as we increase our customer base and our brand becomes more widely known and recognized, we may become more of a target for malicious third parties. Any breach of our security measures as a result of third-party action, employee negligence and/or error, malfeasance, defects or otherwise that compromises the confidentiality, integrity or availability of our data or our customers' data could result in:. •  severe harm to our reputation or brand, or materially and adversely affect the overall market perception of the security and reliability of our services;. •  individual customer and/or class action lawsuits, which could result in financial judgments against us and which would cause us to incur legal fees and costs;. •  legal or regulatory enforcement action, which could result in fines and/or penalties and which would cause us to incur legal fees and costs; and/or. •  additional costs associated with responding to the interruption or security breach, such as investigative and remediation costs, the costs of providing individuals and/or data owners with notice of the breach, legal fees, the costs of any additional fraud detection activities, or the costs of prolonged system disruptions or shutdowns.. Any of these events could materially adversely impact our business and results of operations.. Data privacy concerns, evolving regulations of cloud computing, cross-border data transfer restrictions and other domestic or foreign laws and regulations may limit the use and adoption of, or require modification of, our products and services, which could limit our ability to attract new customers or support existing customers thus reducing our revenues, harming our operating results and adversely affecting our business.. Laws and regulations related to the provision of services on the Internet are increasing, as federal, state and foreign governments continue to adopt new laws and regulations addressing data privacy and the collection, processing, storage and use of personal information. For example, in the United States, these include laws and regulations promulgated under the authority of the Federal Trade Commission, the Electronic Communications Privacy Act, the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, the Graham-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, or Gramm-Leach-Bliley, and state breach notification laws, as well as regulator enforcement positions and expectations reflected in federal and state regulatory actions, settlements, consent decrees and guidance documents. Internationally, virtually every jurisdiction in which we operate has established its own data security and privacy legal frameworks with which we, or our customers, must comply, including the Data Protection Directive 95/46/EC, or the Directive, established in the European Union, or EU, and local EU Member State legislation implementing the Directive, such as the Data Protection Act in the United Kingdom.  Most recently, the EU adopted the EU General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, which became effective on May 25, 2018 and replaced the Directive. The GDPR applies to any company established in the EU as well as to those outside the EU if they collect and use personal data in connection with the offering of goods or services to individuals in the EU or the monitoring of their behavior. The GDPR enhances data protection obligations for processors and controllers of personal data, including, for example, expanded disclosures about how personal information is to be used, limitations on retention of information, mandatory data breach notification requirements and onerous new obligations on services providers. Under the GDPR, fines of up to 20,000,000 Euros or up to 4% of the total worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial year, whichever is higher, may be imposed. Given the breadth and depth of changes in data protection obligations, complying with its requirements has caused us to expend significant resources and such expenditures are likely to continue into the near future as we respond to new interpretations and enforcement actions that may follow the effective date of the regulation and as we continue to negotiate data processing agreements with our customers and business partners.. To facilitate and legitimize the transfer of both customer and personnel data from the European Union to the United States, in the past we have relied on the EU-U.S. Safe Harbor Framework, which required U.S.-based companies to provide assurance that they were adhering to relevant European standards for data protection. On October 6, 2015, the Court of Justice of the European Union invalidated the EU-U.S. Safe Harbor Framework. On February 2, 2016, the U.S. and EU announced agreement on a new framework for transatlantic data flows entitled the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield and we self-certified under the EU-US Privacy Shield framework in March 2018. However, the Privacy Shield continues to be subject to legal challenges and, as a result, there is some uncertainty regarding its future validity and our ability to rely on it for EU to US data transfers.  If the Privacy Shield is ultimately invalidated, we will be required to identify and implement alternative solutions to ensure that we are in compliance with European data transfer requirements.  If we fail to comply fully with European privacy laws, EU data protection authorities might impose upon us a number of different sanctions, including fines and restrictions on transfers.. 18. Privacy and data protections laws and regulations are subject to new and differing interpretations and there may be significant inconsistency in laws and regulations among the jurisdictions in which we operate or offer our SaaS solutions.  Legal and other regulatory requirements could restrict our ability to store and process data as part of our SaaS solutions, or, in some cases, impact our ability to offer our SaaS products in certain jurisdictions. Such laws may also impact our customers' ability to deploy certain of our solutions globally, to the extent they utilize our products for storing personal information that they store and process. In addition, in many cases these privacy laws apply not only to transfers of information to third parties, but also within an enterprise, including our company or our customers. Additionally, if third parties that we work with, violate applicable laws or our policies, such violations may also put our customers' information at risk and could in turn have an adverse effect on our business. The costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, data privacy laws, regulations and standards may require resources to create new products or modify existing products, could lead to us being subject to significant fines, penalties or liabilities for noncompliance, and may slow the pace at which we close sales transactions, any of which could harm our business.. If we are unable to effectively increase sales of our services to large enterprises while mitigating the risks associated with serving such customers, our business, financial position and results of operations may suffer.. As we seek to increase our sales to large enterprise customers, we may face longer sales cycles, more complex customer requirements, unfavorable contractual terms, substantial upfront sales costs and less predictability in completing some of our sales than we do with smaller customers. In addition, our ability to successfully sell our services to large enterprises is dependent on us attracting and retaining sales personnel with experience in selling to large organizations. Also, because security breaches of larger, more high-profile enterprises are likely to be heavily publicized, there is increased reputational risk associated with serving such customers. If we are unable to increase sales of our services to large enterprise customers while mitigating the risks associated with serving such customers, our business, financial position and results of operations may suffer.. If we are unable to maintain successful relationships with our channel partners, our ability to acquire new customers could be adversely affected.. In order to grow our business, we anticipate that we will continue to depend on our relationships with our channel partners who we rely on, in addition to our direct sales force, to sell and support our services. In our fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, while no individual channel partner accounted for 10% or more of our sales, in the aggregate, our channel partners accounted for 69% of our sales. We expect that sales to channel partners will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. We utilize channel partners to efficiently increase the scale of our marketing and sales efforts, increasing our market penetration to customers which we otherwise might not reach on our own. Our ability to achieve revenue growth in the future will depend, in part, on our success in maintaining successful relationships with our channel partners.. Our agreements with our channel partners are generally non-exclusive, meaning our channel partners may offer customers competitive services from different companies. If our channel partners do not effectively market and sell our services, choose to use greater efforts to market and sell their own products or services or those of others, or fail to meet the needs of our customers, our ability to grow our business, sell our services and maintain our reputation may be adversely affected. Our agreements with our channel partners generally allow them to terminate their agreements for any reason upon 90 days' notice. The loss of key channel partners, our possible inability to replace them, or the failure to recruit additional channel partners could materially adversely affect our results of operations. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with these channel partners, our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be adversely affected.. We provide service level commitments under our subscription agreements and service disruptions could obligate us to provide refunds and we could face subscription terminations, which could adversely affect our revenue.. Our subscription agreements with customers provide certain service level commitments. If we are unable to meet the stated service level commitments or suffer extended periods of downtime that exceed the periods allowed under our customer agreements, we could be required to pay refunds or face subscription terminations, either of which could significantly impact our revenue.. To date, we have suffered two significant service disruptions. The first occurred in 2013 and was a result of an equipment failure. Many of our customers in the United Kingdom experienced service disruptions for several hours. We also experienced a service disruption in September 2015 as a result of an external network DDoS attack. Customers using our Secure Email Gateway service in the United States experienced downtime related to the delivery and receipt of external emails for several hours. The scope of the incident was limited to network traffic and no customer data was lost or compromised. As a result of the service disruption, we voluntarily provided service credits to affected customers in the year ended March 31, 2016, totaling approximately $0.4 million. While we have undertaken substantial remedial efforts to prevent future incidents like these, we cannot guarantee that future attacks or service disruptions will not occur. Any future attacks or service disruptions could adversely affect our reputation, our relationships with our existing customers and our ability to attract new customers, all of which would impact our future revenue and operating results.. 19. If we are not able to provide successful updates, enhancements and features to our technology to, among other things, keep up with emerging cyber-threats and customer needs, our business could be adversely affected.. Our industry is marked by rapid technological developments and demand for new and enhanced services and features to meet the evolving IT needs of organizations. In particular, cyber-threats are becoming increasingly sophisticated and responsive to the new security measures designed to thwart them. If we fail to identify and respond to new and increasingly complex methods of attack and update our products to detect or prevent such threats, our business and reputation will suffer. The success of any new enhancements, features or services that we introduce depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of such enhancements, features or services. We may not be successful in either developing these modifications and enhancements or in bringing them to market in a timely fashion. Furthermore, modifications to existing technologies will increase our research and development expenses. If we are unable to successfully enhance our existing services to meet customer requirements, increase adoption and usage of our services, or develop new services, enhancements and features, our business and operating results will be harmed.. Because we recognize revenue from subscriptions for our services over the term of the agreement, downturns or upturns in new business may not be immediately reflected in our operating results and may be difficult to discern.. We generally recognize subscription revenue from customers ratably on a straight-line basis over the terms of their subscription agreements, which are typically one year in duration. As a result, most of the revenue we report in each quarter is derived from the recognition of deferred revenue relating to subscription agreements entered into during the previous fiscal year or quarter. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions with yearly terms in any one quarter may have a small impact on our operating revenue results for that quarter. However, such decline will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our services, and potential changes in our pricing policies, rate of expansion or retention rate may not be fully reflected in our operating results until future periods. Shifts in the mix of annual versus monthly subscription billings may also make it difficult to assess our business. We may also be unable to reduce our cost structure in line with a significant deterioration in sales. In addition, a significant majority of our costs are expensed as incurred, while revenue is recognized over the life of the agreement with our customer. As a result, increased growth in the number of our customers could continue to result in our recognition of more costs than revenue in the earlier periods of the terms of our agreements. Our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers is recognized over the applicable subscription term.. We have incurred losses in the past, and we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability for the foreseeable future.. We have incurred losses in each period since our inception in 2003 up through our fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, with the exception of our fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 in which we generated net income of $0.3 million. In our fiscal years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, we incurred a net loss of $12.4 million and $5.4 million, respectively. As of March 31, 2018, we had an accumulated deficit of $106.5 million. We have been growing rapidly, and, as we do so, we incur significant sales and marketing, support and other related expenses. Our ability to achieve and sustain profitability will depend in significant part on our obtaining new customers, expanding our existing customer relationships and ensuring that our expenses, including our sales and marketing expenses and the cost of supporting new customers, does not exceed our revenue. We also expect to make significant expenditures and investments in research and development to expand and improve our services and technical infrastructure. In addition, as a public company, we expect to continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur prior to our initial public offering in November 2015. These increased expenditures may make it harder for us to achieve and maintain profitability and we cannot predict when we will achieve sustained profitability, if at all. We also may incur losses in the future for a number of other unforeseen reasons. Accordingly, we may not be able to maintain profitability, once achieved, and we may incur losses in the foreseeable future.. We are subject to a number of risks associated with global sales and operations.. We operate a global business with offices located in the United States, the United Kingdom, South Africa, Australia and Germany. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, we generated 49% of our revenue from the United States, 31% from the United Kingdom, 15% from South Africa and 5% from the rest of the world. As a result, our sales and operations are subject to a number of risks and additional costs, including the following:. •  fluctuations in exchange rates between currencies in the markets where we do business;. •  risks associated with trade restrictions and additional legal requirements, including the exportation of our technology that is required in some of the countries in which we operate;. •  greater risk of unexpected changes in regulatory rules, regulations and practices, tariffs and tax laws and treaties;. 20. •  compliance with multiple anti-bribery laws, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Anti-Bribery Act;. •  heightened risk of unfair or corrupt business practices in certain geographies, and of improper or fraudulent sales arrangements that may impact financial results and result in restatements of, or irregularities in, financial statements;. •  limited or uncertain protection of intellectual property rights in some countries and the risks and costs associated with monitoring and enforcing intellectual property rights abroad;. •  greater difficulty in enforcing contracts and managing collections in certain jurisdictions, as well as longer collection periods;. •  management communication and integration problems resulting from cultural and geographic dispersion;. •  social, economic and political instability, terrorist attacks and security concerns in general; and. •  potentially adverse tax consequences.. For example, in June 2016, the United Kingdom held a referendum in which a majority of voters approved an exit from the EU, or Brexit, and in March 2017, the United Kingdom formally notified the EU of its intention to withdraw from the EU. A two-year period has now commenced during which the United Kingdom and the EU will negotiate the future terms of the United Kingdom's relationship with the EU, including, among other things, the terms of trade between the United Kingdom and the EU. Brexit may affect our results of operations in a number of ways, including increasing currency exchange risk, generating instability in the global financial markets or negatively impacting the economies of the United Kingdom or Europe.  In addition, because of our significant presence in the United Kingdom, it is possible that Brexit may require us to restructure some or all of our operations. The long-term effects of Brexit will depend in part on any agreements the United Kingdom makes to retain access to markets in the EU following the withdrawal from the EU. In addition, we expect that Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the United Kingdom determines which EU laws to replicate or replace. These and other factors could harm our ability to generate future global revenue and, consequently, materially impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. These and other factors could harm our ability to generate future global revenue and, consequently, materially impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our business.. Our functional currency and that of our subsidiaries is the local currency of each entity and our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. In our fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, 51% of our revenue was denominated in U.S. dollars, 29% in British pounds, 15% in South African rand and 5% in other currencies. Given that our functional currency and that of our subsidiaries is the local currency of each entity, but our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar, fluctuations in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar, the British pound, the South African rand and the Australian dollar could materially and adversely affect our business. There may be instances in which costs and revenue will not be matched with respect to currency denomination. We estimate that a 10% increase or decrease in the value of the British pound against the U.S. dollar would have increased or decreased our loss from operations by approximately $1.8 million in our fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 and that a 10% increase or decrease in the value of the South African rand against the U.S. dollar would have decreased or increased our loss from operations by approximately $2.4 million in our fiscal year ended March 31, 2018. To date, we have not entered into any currency hedging contracts. As a result, to the extent we continue our expansion on a global basis, we expect that increasing portions of our revenue, cost of revenue, assets and liabilities will be subject to fluctuations in currency valuations. We may experience economic loss and a negative impact on earnings or net assets solely as a result of currency exchange rate fluctuations.. Brexit may continue to have a significant impact on currency exchange rates and the global and European economy generally. The outcome of the referendum caused volatility in global stock markets and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, including the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the British pound and the euro, which may continue or worsen as the outcome of the negotiations between the United Kingdom and the EU becomes clear.. We are dependent on the continued services and performance of our two founders, the loss of either of whom could adversely affect our business.. Our future performance depends upon contributions from our senior management team and, in particular, our two founders, Peter Bauer, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Neil Murray, our Chief Technology Officer. If our senior management team, including any new hires that we may make, fails to work together effectively and to execute on our plans and strategies on a timely basis, our business could be harmed. The loss of one or more of our executive officers or key employees could have an adverse effect on our business. The loss of services of either Mr. Bauer or Mr. Murray could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our development and strategic objectives.. 21. We depend on highly skilled personnel to grow and operate our business, and if we are unable to hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, we may not be able to grow effectively.. Our success depends largely upon our continued ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel, including senior management, engineers, software developers, sales representatives and customer support representatives. Our growth strategy also depends, in part, on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. Identifying, recruiting, training and integrating qualified individuals requires significant time, expense and attention of management. Competition for these personnel is intense, especially for engineers experienced in designing and developing software and software as a service, or SaaS, applications, and for experienced sales professionals. We have, from time to time experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining employees with appropriate qualifications. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have. If we hire employees from competitors or other companies, their former employers may assert that these employees or we have breached their legal obligations, resulting in a diversion of our time and resources. In addition, prospective and existing employees often consider the value of the equity awards they receive in connection with their employment. If the actual or perceived value of our equity awards declines, or experiences significant volatility, it may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain key employees. If we are not able to effectively recruit and retain qualified employees, our ability to achieve our strategic objectives will be adversely impacted, and our business will be harmed.. Any serious disruptions in our services caused by defects in our software or otherwise may cause us to lose revenue and market acceptance.. Our customers use our services for the most critical aspects of their business, and any disruptions to our services or other performance problems with our services, however caused, could hurt our brand and reputation and may damage our customers' businesses. We provide regular updates, which may contain undetected errors when first introduced or released. In the past, we have discovered software errors, failures, vulnerabilities and bugs in our services after they have been released and new errors in our existing services may be detected in the future. Real or perceived errors, failures, system delays, interruptions, disruptions or bugs could result in negative publicity, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our services, loss of competitive position, delay of payment to us, lower renewal rates, or claims by customers for losses sustained by them. In such an event, we may be required, or may choose, for customer relations or other reasons, to expend additional resources in order to mitigate or correct the problem. We seek to cap the liability to which we are exposed in the event of losses or harm to our customers, but we cannot be certain that we will obtain these caps or that these caps, if obtained, will be enforced in all instances. We carry insurance; however, the amount of such insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for any losses that may result from claims arising from defects or disruptions in our services. As a result, we could lose future sales and our reputation and our brand could be harmed.. If the prices we charge for our services are unacceptable to our customers, our operating results will be harmed.. As the market for our services matures, or as new or existing competitors introduce new products or services that compete with ours, we may experience pricing pressure and be unable to renew our agreements with existing customers or attract new customers at prices that are consistent with our pricing model and operating budget. If this were to occur, it is possible that we would have to change our pricing model or reduce our prices, which could harm our revenue, gross margin and operating results. Pricing decisions may also impact the mix of adoption among our subscription plans and negatively impact our overall revenue. Moreover, large enterprises, which may account for a larger portion of our business in the future, may demand substantial price concessions. If we are, for any reason, required to reduce our prices, our revenue, gross margin, profitability, financial position and cash flow may be adversely affected.. Our research and development efforts may not produce new services or enhancements to existing services that result in significant revenue or other benefits in the near future, if at all.. We invested 15%, 12% and 12% of our revenue in research and development in our fiscal years ended March 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We expect to continue to dedicate significant financial and other resources to our research and development efforts in order to maintain our competitive position. However, investing in research and development personnel, developing new services and enhancing existing services is expensive and time-consuming, and there is no assurance that such activities will result in significant new marketable services, enhancements to existing services, design improvements, cost savings, revenue or other expected benefits. If we spend significant time and effort on research and development and are unable to generate an adequate return on our investment, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. 22. We have acquired, and may acquire in the future, other businesses, products or technologies, which could require significant management attention, disrupt our business, dilute shareholder value and adversely affect our results of operations.. As part of our business growth strategy and in order to remain competitive, we may acquire, or make investments in, complementary companies, products or technologies. For example, in fiscal 2017, we acquired substantially all of the business of iSheriff, Inc., a cloud security provider, and in fiscal 2018, we acquired machine learning-based malware detection technology.  Nevertheless, our acquisition experience to date remains limited, and as a result, our ability as an organization to acquire and integrate other companies, products or technologies in a successful manner is unproven. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition targets, and we may not be able to complete such acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. If we do complete acquisitions, we may not ultimately strengthen our competitive position or achieve our goals, and any acquisitions we complete could be viewed negatively by our customers, analysts and investors. In addition, if we are unsuccessful at integrating such acquisitions or the technologies associated with such acquisitions, our revenue and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, while we will make significant efforts to address any information technology security issues with respect to any acquisitions, we may still inherit such risks when we integrate the acquired products and systems. Any integration process may require significant time and resources, and we may not be able to manage the process successfully. We may not successfully evaluate or utilize the acquired technology or personnel, or accurately forecast the financial impact of an acquired business, including accounting charges. We may have to pay cash, incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any such acquisitions, each of which could adversely affect our financial condition or the value of our ordinary shares. The sale of equity or issuance of debt to finance any such acquisitions could result in dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased fixed obligations and could also include covenants or other restrictions that would impede our ability to manage our operations.. We employ third-party licensed software for use in or with our services, and the inability to maintain these licenses or errors in the software we license could result in increased costs, or reduced service levels, which would adversely affect our business.. Our services incorporate and rely on certain third-party software obtained under licenses from other companies. We anticipate that we will continue to rely on such third-party software and development tools in the future. Although we believe that there are commercially reasonable alternatives to the third-party software we currently license, this may not always be the case, or it may be difficult or costly to replace. In addition, integration of the software used in our services with new third-party software may require significant work and require substantial investment of our time and resources and delays in the release of our services until equivalent technology is either developed by us, or, if available, is identified, obtained and integrated, which could harm our business. A licensor may have difficulties keeping up with technological changes or may stop supporting the software or other intellectual property that it licensed to us. Also, to the extent that our services depend upon the successful operation of third-party software in conjunction with our software, any undetected errors or defects in this third-party software could prevent the deployment or impair the functionality of our services, delay new services introductions, result in a failure of our services, and injure our reputation. Our use of additional or alternative third-party software would require us to enter into additional license agreements with third parties on terms that may not be favorable to us.. If the market for SaaS business software applications develops more slowly than we expect or declines, our business would be adversely affected.. The expansion of the SaaS business applications market depends on a number of factors, including the cost, performance and perceived value associated with SaaS, as well as the ability of SaaS providers to address data security and privacy concerns. Additionally, government agencies have adopted, or may adopt, laws and regulations regarding the collection and use of personal information obtained from consumers and other individuals, or seek to access information on our platform, either of which may reduce the overall demand for our platform. If we or other SaaS providers experience data security incidents, loss of customer data, disruptions in delivery, or other problems, the market for SaaS business applications, including our services, may be negatively affected.. Natural disasters, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events could cause interruptions or performance problems associated with our information and technology infrastructure that could impair the delivery of our services and harm our business.. We currently store our customers' information within twelve third-party data center hosting facilities located in twelve locations around the world. As part of our current disaster recovery arrangements, our production environment and all of our customers' data is currently replicated in near real-time in a facility located in a different location. We cannot provide assurance that the measures we have taken to eliminate single points of failure will be effective to prevent or minimize interruptions to our operations. Our facilities are vulnerable to interruption or damage from a number of sources, many of which are beyond our control, including floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. They may also be subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct. Any damage to, or failure of, our systems generally could result in interruptions in our service. Interruptions in our service may reduce our revenue, cause customers to terminate their subscriptions and adversely affect our renewal. 23. rate and our ability to attract new customers. Our business and reputation will also be harmed if our existing and potential customers believe our service is unreliable. The occurrence of a natural disaster, an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems at these facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. Even with the disaster recovery arrangements, our service could be interrupted. As we continue to add data centers and add capacity in our existing data centers, we may move or transfer our data and our customers' data. Any unsuccessful data transfers may impair the delivery of our service. Further, as we continue to grow and scale our business to meet the needs of our customers, additional burdens may be placed on our hosting facilities.. We are a multinational organization faced with increasingly complex tax issues in many jurisdictions, and we could be obligated to pay additional taxes in various jurisdictions.. As a multinational organization, we may be subject to taxation in several jurisdictions around the world with increasingly complex tax laws, the application of which can be uncertain. The amount of taxes we pay in these jurisdictions could increase substantially as a result of changes in the applicable tax principles, including increased tax rates, new tax laws or revised interpretations of existing tax laws and precedents, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and results of operations. In addition, the authorities in these jurisdictions could review our tax returns and impose additional tax, interest and penalties, and the authorities could claim that various withholding requirements apply to us or our subsidiaries or assert that benefits of tax treaties are not available to us or our subsidiaries. Furthermore, one or more jurisdictions in which we do not believe we are currently subject to tax payment, withholding, or filing requirements, could assert that we are subject to such requirements. Any of these claims or assertions could have a material impact on us and the results of our operations.. We are subject to governmental export controls and funds dealings restrictions that could impair our ability to compete in certain international markets and subject us to liability if we are not in full compliance with applicable laws.. Our software and services may be subject to export controls and we may also be subject to restrictions or prohibitions on transactions with, or on dealing in funds transfers to/from, certain embargoed jurisdictions and sanctioned persons and entities, pursuant to the U.K. Export Control Organisation's restrictions, the U.K. Treasury's restrictions, the EU Council Regulations, the United States Department of Commerce's Export Administration Regulations, the economic and trade sanctions regulations administered by the United States Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Controls and United States Department of State, and similar laws that may apply in other jurisdictions in which we operate or sell or distribute our services. Export control and economic sanctions laws include prohibitions on the sale or supply of certain products and services to certain embargoed or sanctioned countries, regions, governments, persons and entities, as well as restrictions or prohibitions on dealing in funds to/from those countries, regions, governments, persons and entities. In addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption items and technology through import permitting and licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our services or could limit our customers' ability to implement our services in those countries.. The exportation, re-exportation, and importation of our software and services, including by our channel partners, must comply with applicable laws or else we may be adversely affected, through reputational harm, government investigations, penalties, and/or a denial or curtailment of our ability to export our services. Although we take precautions to prevent our services from being provided in violation of such laws, our services may have been in the past, and could in the future be, provided in violation of such laws.. If we are found to be in violation of U.S. sanctions or export control laws, it could result in substantial fines and penalties for us and for the individuals working for us, including civil penalties of up to $250,000 or twice the value of the transaction, whichever is greater, per violation, and in the event of conviction for a criminal violation, fines of up to $1 million and possible incarceration for responsible employees and managers for willful and knowing violations. Under the terms of applicable regulations, each instance in which a company provides goods or services may be considered a separate violation. If we are found to be in violation of U.K. sanctions or export controls, it could also result in unlimited fines for us and responsible employees and managers, as well as imprisonment of up to two years for responsible employees and managers.. Changes in our software or services, or changes in export, sanctions or import laws, may delay the introduction and sale of our services in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our software or services or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our software or services to certain countries, regions, governments, persons or entities altogether, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. 24. Our quarterly results may fluctuate for a variety of reasons and may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business.. Our quarterly operating results, including the levels of our revenue, gross margin, profitability, cash flow and deferred revenue, may vary significantly in the future, and period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. Accordingly, the results of any one quarter should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Our quarterly financial results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control and, as a result, may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business. Fluctuations in quarterly results may negatively impact the value of our ordinary shares. Factors that may cause fluctuations in our quarterly financial results include, but are not limited to:. •  foreign exchange rates;. •  our ability to attract new customers;. •  our revenue retention rate;. •  the amount and timing of operating expenses related to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure;. •  network outages or security breaches;. •  general economic, industry and market conditions;. •  increases or decreases in the number of features in our services or pricing changes upon any renewals of customer agreements;. •  changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors;. •  new variations in sales of our services, which has historically been highest in the fourth quarter of a given fiscal year;. •  the timing and success of new services and service introductions by us and our competitors or any other change in the competitive dynamics of our industry, including consolidation among competitors, customers or strategic partners; and. •  the impact of acquisitions.. If we need to raise additional capital to expand our operations and invest in new technologies in the future and cannot raise it on acceptable terms or at all, our ability to compete successfully may be harmed.. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next twelve months. However, unforeseen circumstances may arise which may mean that we may need to raise additional funds, and we may not be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we raise additional equity financing, our security holders may experience significant dilution of their ownership interests and the value of our ordinary shares could decline. If we engage in debt financing, we may be required to accept terms that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, force us to maintain specified liquidity or other ratios or restrict our ability to pay dividends or make acquisitions. If we need additional capital and cannot raise it on acceptable terms, if at all, we may not be able to, among other things:. •  develop and enhance our services;. •  continue to expand our research and development, sales and marketing organizations;. •  hire, train and retain key employees;. •  respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated working capital requirements; or. •  pursue acquisition opportunities.. Our inability to do any of the foregoing could reduce our ability to compete successfully and harm our results of operations.. Risks Related to Intellectual Property. Any failure to protect our intellectual property rights could impair our ability to protect our proprietary technology and our brand.. Our success and ability to compete depend in part on our intellectual property. We primarily rely on copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, trade secret protection and confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights. However, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property rights may be inadequate. As of March 31, 2018, we have 12 patents issued and 12 patent applications pending in the United States. We also have 4 patents issued and 5 patent applications pending for examination in non-U.S. jurisdictions. We may not be able to obtain any further patents, and our. 25. pending applications may not result in the issuance of patents. We have issued patents and pending patent applications outside the United States, and we may have to expend significant resources to obtain additional patents as we expand our international operations due to the cost of monitoring and protecting our rights across multiple jurisdictions.. In order to protect our intellectual property rights, we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect these rights. Litigation brought to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly, time-consuming and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Failure to adequately enforce our intellectual property rights could also result in the impairment or loss of those rights. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. Patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws offer us only limited protection and the laws of many of the countries in which we sell our services do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the United States and Europe. Accordingly, defense of our trademarks and proprietary technology may become an increasingly important issue as we continue to expand our operations and solution development into countries that provide a lower level of intellectual property protection than the United States or Europe. Policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property and technology is difficult and the steps we take may not prevent misappropriation of the intellectual property or technology on which we rely. For example, in the event of inadvertent or malicious disclosure of our proprietary technology, trade secret laws may no longer afford protection to our intellectual property rights in the areas not otherwise covered by patents or copyrights. Accordingly, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. Our failure to secure, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could materially adversely affect our brand and our business.. We may elect to initiate litigation in the future to enforce or protect our proprietary rights or to determine the validity and scope of the rights of others. That litigation may not be ultimately successful and could result in substantial costs to us, the reduction or loss in intellectual property protection for our technology, the diversion of our management's attention and harm to our reputation, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights.. There is considerable patent and other intellectual property development activity in our industry. Our success depends, in part, on our not infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. Our competitors, as well as a number of other entities, including non-practicing entities, which are entities that have no operating business but exist purely as collectors of patents, and individuals, may own or claim to own intellectual property relating to our industry.. From time to time, certain third parties have claimed that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. In the future, we may be found to be infringing upon such rights. We closely monitor all such claims and none of the claims by the third parties have resulted in litigation, but legal actions by such parties are still possible. In addition, we cannot assure you that actions by other third parties alleging infringement by us of third-party patents or other intellectual property will not be asserted or prosecuted against us. In the future, others may claim that our services and underlying technology infringe or violate their intellectual property rights. We may also be unaware of the intellectual property rights that others may claim cover some or all of our technology or services. Any claims or litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, could require that we pay substantial damages or ongoing royalty payments, prevent us from offering our services, or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms. Under all of our sales contracts, we are obligated to indemnify our customers and channel partners against third-party infringement claims, and we may also be obligated to pay substantial settlement costs, including royalty payments, in connection with any such claim or litigation and to obtain licenses, modify services or refund fees, any of which could be costly. Even if we were to prevail in such a dispute, any litigation regarding intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations.. Confidentiality arrangements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information.. We have devoted substantial resources to the development of our technology, business operations and business plans. In order to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, we rely in significant part on confidentiality arrangements with our employees, licensees, independent contractors, advisers, channel partners, resellers and customers. These arrangements may not be effective to prevent disclosure of confidential information, including trade secrets, and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, if others independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information, we would not be able to assert trade secret rights against such parties. Effective trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our services are available or where we have employees or independent contractors. The loss of trade secret protection could make it easier for third parties to compete with our solutions by copying functionality. In addition, any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the trade secret and employment laws in any country in which we operate may compromise our ability to enforce our trade secret and intellectual property rights. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position.. 26. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that our employees or contractors have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers or other parties.. We could in the future be subject to claims that employees or contractors, or we, have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of our competitors or other parties. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending against such claims, a court could order us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from using technologies or features that are essential to our solutions, if such technologies or features are found to incorporate or be derived from the trade secrets or other proprietary information of these parties. In addition, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to develop, market and support potential solutions or enhancements, which could severely harm our business. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, such litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management.. The use of open source software in our offerings may expose us to additional risks and harm our intellectual property.. Open source software is typically freely accessible, usable and modifiable. Certain open source software licenses require a user who intends to distribute the open source software as a component of the user's software to disclose publicly part or all of the source code to the user's software. In addition, certain open source software licenses require the user of such software to make any derivative works of the open source code available to others on unfavorable terms or at no cost. This can subject previously proprietary software to open source license terms.. We monitor and control our use of open source software in an effort to avoid unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to successfully commercialize our products and solutions and believe that our compliance with the obligations under the various applicable licenses has mitigated the risks that we have triggered any such conditions or restrictions. However, such use may have inadvertently occurred in the development and offering of our products and solutions. Additionally, if a third-party software provider has incorporated certain types of open source software into software that we have licensed from such third-party, we could be subject to the obligations and requirements of the applicable open source software licenses. This could harm our intellectual property position and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The terms of many open source software licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. or foreign courts, and there is a risk that those licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to successfully commercialize our products and solutions. For example, certain open source software licenses may be interpreted to require that we offer our products or solutions that use the open source software for no cost; that we make available the source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon, incorporating or using the open source software (or that we grant third parties the right to decompile, disassemble, reverse engineer, or otherwise derive such source code); that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of the particular open source license; or that otherwise impose limitations, restrictions or conditions on our ability to use, license, host, or distribute our products and solutions in a manner that limits our ability to successfully commercialize our products.. We could, therefore, be subject to claims alleging that we have not complied with the restrictions or limitations of the applicable open source software license terms or that our use of open source software infringes the intellectual property rights of a third-party. In that event, we could incur significant legal expenses, be subject to significant damages, be enjoined from further sale and distribution of our products or solutions that use the open source software, be required to pay a license fee, be forced to reengineer our products and solutions, or be required to comply with the foregoing conditions of the open source software licenses (including the release of the source code to our proprietary software), any of which could adversely affect our business. Even if these claims do not result in litigation or are resolved in our favor or without significant cash settlements, the time and resources necessary to resolve them could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and reputation.. Additionally, the use of open source software can lead to greater risks than the use of third-party commercial software, as open source software does not come with warranties or other contractual protections regarding indemnification, infringement claims or the quality of the code.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Ordinary Shares and Our Organization in Jersey. Our share price has been and may continue to be volatile.. The market price of our ordinary shares may decline.  In addition, the market price of our ordinary shares could be highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially as a result of many factors, many of which we cannot control, including:. •  actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations;. •  variance in our financial performance from the expectations of market analysts;. 27. •  announcements by us or our competitors of significant business developments, changes in service provider relationships, acquisitions or expansion plans;. •  changes in the prices of our services or those of our competitors;. •  our involvement in litigation;. •  our sale of ordinary shares or other securities in the future;. •  market conditions in our industry;. •  changes in key personnel;. •  the trading volume of our ordinary shares;. •  changes in the estimation of the future size and growth rate of our markets; and. •  general economic and market conditions.. In addition, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. If we were involved in any similar litigation we could incur substantial costs and our management's attention and resources could be diverted.. If securities or industry analysts cease to publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our share price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our ordinary shares depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our shares or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our share price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our shares could decrease, which could cause our share price and trading volume to decline.. We do not expect to pay dividends and investors should not buy our ordinary shares expecting to receive dividends.. We do not anticipate that we will declare or pay any dividends in the foreseeable future, and our ability to do so may be constrained by restrictions in future debt arrangements, if any, and by Jersey law. Consequently, you will only realize an economic gain on your investment in our ordinary shares if the price appreciates. You should not purchase our ordinary shares expecting to receive cash dividends. Since we do not pay dividends, and if we are not successful in establishing an orderly trading market for our shares, then you may not have any manner to liquidate or receive any payment on your investment. Therefore, our failure to pay dividends may cause you to not see any return on your investment even if we are successful in our business operations. In addition, because we do not pay dividends we may have trouble raising additional funds which could affect our ability to expand our business operations.. The market price of our ordinary shares could be negatively affected by future sales of our ordinary shares.. Sales by us or our shareholders of a substantial number of ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur, could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline or could impair our ability to raise capital through a future sale of, or pay for acquisitions using, our equity securities.. We have filed with the SEC a Registration Statement on Form F-3, commonly referred to as a \"shelf registration,\" that permits us to sell in a registered offering up to $50 million of our securities at our discretion.  The shelf registration was declared effective by the SEC in March 2017.  While we have no current plans to conduct an offering of securities under the shelf registration statement, our plans could change at any time. In addition, the shelf registration statement also covers the registration of a significant number of ordinary shares held by our existing shareholders.  By agreement, these shareholders are entitled to demand that we register their shares under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, for resale into the public markets and they could exercise their rights by requiring that we initiate an offering under the shelf registration statement.. In addition to our current shareholders' registration rights and our existing shelf registration statement, as of March 31, 2018, we had outstanding options and unvested restricted share units to purchase 6,262,623 shares under our equity incentive plans and had an additional 8,761,886 shares available for future grant.. 28. As a result of the loss of our foreign private issuer status, we are now required to comply with the Exchange Act's domestic reporting regime, which will cause us to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses.. As of September 30, 2017, we determined that we no longer qualify as a \"foreign private issuer\" as such term is defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act, which means that we are required to comply with all of the periodic disclosure and current reporting requirements of the Exchange Act applicable to U.S. domestic issuers as of April 1, 2018. As of April 1, 2018, we have been required to comply with the Exchange Act reporting and other requirements applicable to U.S. domestic issuers, which are more detailed and extensive than the requirements for foreign private issuers. We have been required to make changes in our corporate governance practices in accordance with various SEC and NASDAQ rules. In addition, our officers and directors are no longer exempt from the reporting and \"short-swing\" profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and related rules with respect to their purchase and sales of our securities. As a result of such compliance, the regulatory and compliance costs to us under U.S. securities laws may be significantly higher than the cost we would incur as a foreign private issuer and therefore, we expect that the loss of foreign private issuer status will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and would make some activities highly time consuming and costly.. We must maintain proper and effective internal controls over financial reporting and any failure to maintain the adequacy of these internal controls may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our ordinary shares.. We are required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related rules adopted by the SEC, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis. This assessment includes disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting. During the evaluation and testing process, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective.. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404. Our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed or operating. We may not be able to remediate any future material weaknesses, or to complete our evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion. We are also required to disclose significant changes made in our internal control procedures on a quarterly basis. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts.. Any failure to maintain internal control over financial reporting could severely inhibit our ability to accurately report our financial condition or results of operations. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls when it is required to issue such opinion, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by NASDAQ, the SEC or other regulatory authorities.. Changes in U.S. tax laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, results of operations or financial conditions.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, which has been passed by the U.S. Congress and signed by the President, contains many significant changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws, the consequences of which have not yet been fully determined. Changes in corporate tax rates, the realizability of the net deferred tax assets relating to our U.S. subsidiary, and the deductibility of expenses contained in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act or other tax reform legislation could have a material impact on the value of our deferred tax assets, could result in significant one-time charges in the current or future taxable years, and could increase our future U.S. tax expense. The foregoing items could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, results of operations or financial conditions.. A change in our tax residence could have a negative effect on our future profitability.. Although we are organized under the laws of the Bailiwick of Jersey, our affairs are, and are intended to continue to be, managed and controlled in the United Kingdom for tax purposes and therefore we are resident in the United Kingdom for U.K. and Jersey tax purposes. It is possible that in the future, whether as a result of a change in law or the practice of any relevant tax authority or as a result of any change in the conduct of our affairs or for any other reason, we could become, or be regarded as having become, a resident in a jurisdiction other than the United Kingdom. If we cease to be a U.K. tax resident, we may be subject to a charge to U.K. corporation tax on chargeable gains on our assets and to unexpected tax charges in other jurisdictions on our income. Similarly, if the tax residency of any of our subsidiaries were to change from their current jurisdiction for any of the reasons listed above, we may be subject to a charge to local capital gains tax on the assets.. 29. Taxing authorities could reallocate our taxable income among our subsidiaries, which could increase our consolidated tax liability.. We conduct operations world-wide through subsidiaries in various tax jurisdictions pursuant to transfer pricing arrangements between our company and its subsidiaries. If two or more affiliated companies are located in different countries, the tax laws or regulations of each country generally will require that transfer prices be the same as those between unrelated companies dealing at arm's length and that appropriate documentation is maintained to support the transfer pricing. While we believe that we operate in compliance with applicable transfer pricing laws and intend to continue to do so, our transfer pricing procedures are not binding on applicable tax authorities. If tax authorities in any of these countries were to successfully challenge our transfer prices as not reflecting arms' length transactions, they could require us to adjust our transfer prices and thereby reallocate our income to reflect these revised transfer prices, which could result in a higher tax liability to us. In addition, if the country from which the income is reallocated does not agree with the reallocation, both countries could tax the same income, resulting in double taxation. If tax authorities were to allocate income to a higher tax jurisdiction, subject our income to double taxation or assess interest and penalties, it would increase our consolidated tax liability, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Double taxation should be mitigated in these circumstances where the affiliated parties that are subject to the transfer pricing adjustments are able to benefit from any applicable double taxation agreement.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards may be subject to limitation.. As of March 31, 2018, we had approximately $52.6 million, $56.4 million, $39.5 million, $17.3 million, and $2.4 million in U.K., U.S. federal, U.S. state, Australia, and Germany net operating losses, respectively. As of March 31, 2018, we also had a $1.2 million U.K. income tax credit carryforward. Each jurisdiction in which we operate may have its own limitations on our ability to utilize net operating losses or tax credit carryovers generated in that jurisdiction that may increase our U.K. and/or foreign income tax liability.. U.S. holders of our ordinary shares could be subject to material adverse tax consequences if we are considered a Passive Foreign Investment Company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. We do not believe that we were a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes during the tax year ending March 31, 2018 and do not expect to be a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes in the tax year. We also do not expect to become a PFIC in the foreseeable future, but the possible status as a PFIC must be determined annually and therefore may be subject to change. If we are at any time treated as a PFIC, such treatment could result in a reduction in the after-tax return to U.S. holders of our ordinary shares and may cause a reduction in the value of such shares. Furthermore, if we are at any time treated as a PFIC, U.S. holders of our ordinary shares could be subject to greater U.S. income tax liability than might otherwise apply, imposition of U.S. income tax in advance of when tax would otherwise apply and detailed tax filing requirements that would not otherwise apply. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, \"U.S. holders\" include individuals and various entities. A corporation is classified as a PFIC for any taxable year in which (i) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the average quarterly value of all its total gross assets is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. For this purpose, passive income includes certain dividends, interest, royalties and rents that are not derived in the active conduct of a trade or business. The PFIC rules are complex and a U.S. holder of our ordinary shares is urged to consult its own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the PFIC rules to it in its particular circumstances.. U.S. shareholders may not be able to enforce civil liabilities against us.. Several of our directors and executive officers are not residents of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of the assets of such persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon such persons or to enforce against them judgments obtained in U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States.. There is also a doubt as to the enforceability in England and Wales and Jersey, whether by original actions or by seeking to enforce judgments of U.S. courts, of claims based on the federal securities laws of the United States. In addition, punitive damages in actions brought in the United States or elsewhere may be unenforceable in England and Wales and Jersey.. 30. The rights afforded to shareholders are governed by Jersey law. Not all rights available to shareholders under English law or U.S. law will be available to shareholders.. The rights afforded to shareholders will be governed by Jersey law and by our Articles of Association, and these rights differ in certain respects from the rights of shareholders in typical English companies and U.S. corporations. In particular, Jersey law significantly limits the circumstances under which shareholders of companies may bring derivative actions and, in most cases, only the corporation may be the proper claimant or plaintiff for the purposes of maintaining proceedings in respect of any wrongful act committed against it. Neither an individual nor any group of shareholders has any right of action in such circumstances. In addition, Jersey law does not afford appraisal rights to dissenting shareholders in the form typically available to shareholders of a U.S. corporation."
