[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this Form 10-K. The risk factors described below are not the only risks we face. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may also be affected by additional factors that are not currently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial or that are not specific to us, such as general economic conditions.. You should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements included under \"Cautionary Statements About Forward-Looking Statements\" of this Form 10-K. All forward-looking statements made by us are qualified by the risk factors described below.. Our revenues are subject to fluctuations that are beyond our control, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations in a given financial period.. Projects awarded to and scheduled by our customers can be delayed or cancelled due to factors that are outside of their control, which can affect the demand for our products and services. These factors include the following:. • inclement weather conditions;. • difficulties in obtaining permits and licenses;. • labor or political unrest;. • delays in obtaining access rights;. • availability of required equipment;. • security concerns;. • budgetary or financial issues; and. 9. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. • delays in payments to our customers from their clients.. A limited number of customers account for a significant portion of our revenues and the loss of one of these customers could harm our results of operations.. We typically lease and sell significant amounts of seismic equipment to a relatively small number of customers, the composition of which changes from year to year as leases are initiated and concluded and as customers' equipment needs vary. Therefore, at any one time, a large portion of our revenues may be derived from a limited number of customers. In fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016, our single largest customer, accounted for approximately 14%, 14% and 11%, respectively, of our consolidated revenues. Together, our five largest customers accounted for approximately 43% of our consolidated revenues in fiscal 2018. There has been consolidation among certain of our customers and this trend may continue. This consolidation could result in the loss of one or more of our customers and could result in a decrease in the demand for our equipment.. The financial soundness of our customers could materially affect our business and operating results.. If our customers experience financial difficulties or their own customers delay payment to them, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable owed to us. Disruptions in the financial markets or other macro-economic issues could exacerbate financial difficulties for our customer. Any inability of customers to pay us for services could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. As of January 31, 2018, we had approximately $10.5 million of customer accounts and contracts receivable, of which approximately $6.2 million was over 90 days past due. For fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016, we had net charges of approximately $1.0 million, $750,000 and $2.2 million, respectively, to our provision for doubtful accounts. Significant payment defaults by our customers in excess of the allowance would have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. We derive a substantial amount of our revenues from foreign operations and sales, which pose additional risks including economic, political and other uncertainties.. We conduct operations on a global scale. For fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016, approximately 76%, 85%, and 86%, respectively, of our revenues were attributable to operations in foreign countries.. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks inherent to any business operating in foreign countries, and especially those with emerging markets. As we continue to increase our presence in such countries, our operations will encounter the following risks, among others:. • government instability, which can cause investment in capital projects by our potential clients to be withdrawn or delayed, reducing or eliminating the viability of some markets for our services;. • potential expropriation, seizure, nationalization or detention of assets;. • difficulty in repatriating foreign currency received in excess of local currency requirements;. • import/export quotas and evolving export license requirements;. • civil uprisings, riots and war, which can make it unsafe to continue operations, adversely affect both budgets and schedules and expose us to losses;. • availability of suitable personnel and equipment, which can be affected by government policy, or changes in policy, which limit the importation of qualified crewmembers or specialized equipment in areas where local resources are insufficient;. • decrees, laws, regulations, interpretation and court decisions under legal systems, which are not always fully developed and which may be retroactively applied and cause us to incur unanticipated and/or unrecoverable costs as well as delays which may result in real or opportunity costs;. • terrorist attacks, including kidnappings of our personnel or those of our customers;. • political and economic uncertainties in certain countries which cause delays or cancellation of oil and gas exploration projects;. • the United States or foreign countries could enact legislation or impose regulations or other restrictions, including unfavorable labor regulations, tax policies or economic sanctions (including current or additional economic sanctions relating to the dispute between Russia and the Ukraine), which could have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business in or expatriate profits from the countries in which we operate; and. • environmental conditions and regulatory controls or initiatives in some countries, which may not be consistently applied or enforced.. We cannot predict the nature and the likelihood of any such events. However, if any of these or other similar events should occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation.. 10. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. The sale or transfer of certain equipment to a location outside the United States may require prior approval in the form of an export license issued by the United States Department of Commerce or Department of State. These transactions may otherwise be subject to tariffs and import/export restrictions from the United States or other governments. The delay in obtaining required governmental approvals could affect our ability to conclude a sale or timely commence a project, and the failure to comply with all such controls could result in fines and other penalties.. We are subject to taxation in many foreign jurisdictions and the final determination of our tax liabilities involves the interpretation of the statutes and requirements of taxing authorities worldwide. Our tax returns are subject to routine examination by taxing authorities, and these examinations may result in assessments of additional taxes, penalties and/or interest.. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing economic, social and political conditions. We may not continue to succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies that are effective in each location where we do business, which could negatively affect our profitability.. Due to the international scope of our business activities, our results of operations may be significantly affected by currency fluctuations.. Many of our foreign operations are conducted in currencies other than U.S. dollars. Those currencies include the Canadian dollar, the Australian dollar, the Singapore dollar, the Russian ruble, the Euro, and the British pound sterling. These internationally-sourced revenues are subject to the risk of taxation policies, expropriation, political turmoil, civil disturbances, armed hostilities, and other geopolitical hazards as well as foreign currency exchange controls (in which payment could not be made in U.S. dollars) and fluctuations.. For example, in connection with the ongoing political turmoil in Ukraine, the United States, the European Union and other countries have imposed significant sanctions measures against Russia targeting the energy, defense and financial sectors of Russia's economy as well as specific Russian officials and businesses that they own. At least partly due to these sanctions, there has been a dramatic decline in the price for oil, which is a major export for Russia. These current events have negatively affected the Russian economy and have negatively affected the value of the Russian ruble relative to the U.S. dollar. While revenues attributable to our operations in Russia were not material in fiscal 2018 and 2017, continuing fluctuations in the rates at which the U.S. dollar are exchanged into Russian rubles may result in both foreign currency transaction and translation losses. As the dollar strengthens or weakens relative to the ruble, our ruble-denominated revenue and expenses decline or increase respectively, when translated into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.. For accounting purposes, balance sheet accounts of our operating subsidiaries are translated at the current exchange rate as of the end of the accounting period. Statement of operations items are translated at average currency exchange rates. The resulting translation adjustment is recorded as a separate component of comprehensive income within shareholders' equity. This translation adjustment has in the past been, and may in the future be, material because of the significant amount of assets held by our international subsidiaries and the fluctuations in the foreign exchange rates.. We are subject to risks associated with the intellectual property of our Marine Technology Products segment.. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property. We also enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and corporate partners and control access to and distribution of our design information, documentation and other proprietary information. These intellectual property protection measures may not be sufficient to prevent wrongful misappropriation of our technology. In addition, these measures will not prevent competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. The laws of many foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Failure to protect proprietary information could result in, among other things, loss of competitive advantage, loss of customer orders and decreased revenues. Monitoring the unauthorized use of our products is difficult and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. If competitors are able to use our technology, our ability to compete effectively could be impaired.. We may be subject to infringement claims and other intellectual property disputes as competition in the marketplace continues to intensify. In the future, we may be subject to litigation and may be required to defend against claimed infringements of the rights of others or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Any such litigation could be costly and divert management's attention from operations. In addition, adverse determinations in such litigation could, among other things:. • result in the loss of our proprietary rights to use the technology;. • subject us to significant liabilities;. • require us to seek licenses from third parties;. • require us to redesign the products that use the technology; and. • prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products that incorporate the technology.. 11. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. If we are forced to take any of the foregoing actions, our business may be seriously harmed. Any litigation to protect our intellectual property or to defend ourselves against the claims of others could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and may not ultimately be successful.. Products we develop, manufacture and sell may be subject to performance or reliability risks.. The production of new products with high technology content involves occasional problems while the technology and manufacturing methods mature. If significant reliability or quality problems develop, including those due to faulty components, a number of negative effects on our business could result, including:. • costs associated with reworking the manufacturing processes;. • high service and warranty expenses;. • high inventory obsolescence expense;. • high levels of product returns;. • delays in collecting accounts receivable;. • reduced orders from existing customers; and. • declining interest from potential customers.. Although we maintain accruals for product warranties as we deem necessary, actual costs could exceed these amounts. From time to time, there may be interruptions or delays in the activation of products at a customer's site. These interruptions or delays may result from product performance problems or from aspects of the installation and activation activities, some of which are outside our control. If we experience significant interruptions or delays that cannot be promptly resolved, confidence in our products could be undermined, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. We are subject to risks related to the availability and reliability of component parts used in the manufacture of our products.. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for components of our products, as well as for equipment used to design and test our products. Certain components used in our products may be available from a sole source or limited number of vendors. If these suppliers were to limit or reduce the sale of such components to us, or if these suppliers were to experience financial difficulties or other problems that prevented them from supplying us with the necessary components, these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These sole source and other suppliers are each subject to quality and performance issues, materials shortages, excess demand, reduction in capacity and other factors that may disrupt the flow of goods to us; thereby adversely affecting our business and customer relationships. Some of the sole source and limited source vendors are companies who, from time to time, may allocate parts to equipment manufacturers due to market demand for components and equipment. We have no guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers and there can be no assurance that our suppliers will continue to meet our requirements. Many of our competitors are much larger and may be able to obtain priority allocations from these shared vendors, thereby limiting or making our sources of supply unreliable for these components. If our supply arrangements are interrupted, there can be no assurance that we would be able to find another supplier on a timely or satisfactory basis. Any delay in component availability for any of our products could result in delays in deployment of these products and in our ability to recognize revenues.. If we are unable to obtain a sufficient supply of components from alternative sources, reduced supplies and higher prices of components will significantly limit our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to customers. A delay in receiving certain components or the inability to receive certain components could harm our customer relationships and our results of operations.. Failures of components affect the reliability and performance of our products, can reduce customer confidence in our products, and may adversely affect our financial performance. From time to time, we may experience delays in receipt of components and may receive components that do not perform according to their specifications. Any future difficulty in obtaining sufficient and timely delivery of components could result in delays or reductions in product shipments that could harm our business. In addition, a consolidation among suppliers of these components or adverse developments in their businesses that affect their ability to meet our supply demands could adversely impact the availability of components that we depend on. Delayed deliveries from these sources could adversely affect our business.. We are subject to risks related to maintaining appropriate inventory levels.. We are exposed to risks relating to effectively maintaining inventory levels. Changes in product demand, product pricing, defective components and other factors can impact the appropriate level of inventories. We attempt to accurately predict these trends in order to avoid shortages, excesses or obsolete inventory. However, any of the factors above may adversely affect our operating results.. 12. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Our quarterly operating results may be subject to significant fluctuations.. Individual orders for many of our products can be relatively significant and delivery requirements can be sporadic. Accordingly, our operating results for a particular quarter can be materially impacted by the absence or presence of such significant orders.. The oil and gas industry in general and the seismic industry in particular are subject to cyclical fluctuations. Demand for many of our products and services depends upon spending levels by exploration and production companies for exploration, production, development and field management of oil and natural gas reserves.. These periodic fluctuations in our operating results could adversely affect our stock price.. We face competition for our products and services.. We have several competitors who provide similar products and services, many of which have substantially greater financial resources than our own. There are also several smaller competitors that, in the aggregate, generate significant revenues from the sale or lease of products similar to those we offer.. We rely on a small number of suppliers and disruption in vendor supplies could adversely affect our results of operations.. We purchase many of the components used in our manufacturing operations and the majority of our seismic equipment for our lease pool from a small number of suppliers. Should our relationships with our suppliers deteriorate, we may have difficulty in obtaining new technology required by our customers and maintaining our existing equipment in accordance with manufacturers' specifications. In addition, we may, from time to time, experience supply or quality control problems with suppliers, and these problems could significantly affect our ability to meet our lease commitments. Reliance on certain suppliers, as well as industry supply conditions, generally involve several risks, including the possibility of a shortage or a lack of availability of key products and increases in product costs and reduced control over delivery schedules; any of these events could adversely affect our future results of operations.. Trends in oil and natural gas prices affect the level of exploration, development, and production activity of certain of our customers and the demand for a portion of our services and products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition.. Historically, the demand for certain of our products and services has been particularly sensitive to the level of exploration, development and production activity of, and the corresponding capital spending by, oil and gas companies. The level of exploration, development, and production activity is directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices, which historically have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile. During the period of depressed commodity prices in recent years many oil and gas exploration and production companies significantly reduced their levels of capital spending, including amounts dedicated to the leasing or purchasing our seismic equipment.. Prices for oil and natural gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty, and a variety of other economic factors that are beyond our control. Crude oil prices declined significantly in the second half of calendar 2014, and were negatively affected by a combination of factors, including weakening demand in Europe and Asia, increased production in the United States, and the decision in late November 2014 by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to keep production levels unchanged. Additionally, stronger economic performance in the United States has led to a strengthening in the U.S. dollar relative to most other currencies, contributing further to the fall in the U.S. dollar value of oil. Downward pressure on commodity prices continued into early 2016. During the course of fiscal 2017 and 2018, crude oil prices recovered somewhat and stabilized from much of the fluctuation of prior periods. Nevertheless, many oil and gas companies made downward revisions to their operating budgets and significantly reduced exploration spending. This had an adverse effect on our oil and gas related business, particularly our equipment leasing segment. We expect continued uncertainty regarding pricing, revenue and operating margins in our oil and gas related business in fiscal 2019. For more information, see Item 7- \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Business Environment and Results of Operations.\" Factors affecting the prices of oil and natural gas include, among other things:. • the level of prices, and expectations about future prices, for oil and natural gas;. • the level of supply and demand for oil and natural gas;. • the ability of oil and gas producers to raise equity capital and debt financing;. • worldwide political, military and economic conditions;. • limitations or disruptions in the transportation or storage of oil;. • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to set and maintain production levels and prices for oil;. • the rate of discovery of new oil and gas reserves and the decline of existing oil and gas reserves;. • the cost of exploring for, developing and producing oil and natural gas;. 13. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. • the ability of exploration and production companies to generate funds or otherwise obtain capital for exploration, development and production operations;. • technological advances affecting energy exploration, production and consumption;. • compliance with new or emerging laws or regulatory initiatives relating to greenhouse gas emissions, hydraulic fracturing, or safety aspects of offshore exploration and production activities that may have a material adverse effect on our customers with respect to increased costs, delays or prohibitions in obtaining drilling permits;. • government regulations, including environmental laws and regulations and tax policies, regarding the exploration for, production and development of oil and natural gas reserves and the use of fossil fuels and alternative energy sources; and. • weather conditions, including large-scale weather events such as hurricanes that impact oil and gas operations over a wide area or impact prices.. Continued depressed commodity prices, or a further decline in existing commodity prices, could adversely affect demand for the services and equipment we provide, and therefore adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Further, perceptions of a long-term decrease in commodity prices by oil and gas companies could similarly reduce or defer major expenditures given the long-term nature of many large-scale development projects. Lower levels of activity result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. Additionally, these factors may adversely impact our statement of financial position if they are determined to cause impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets or of our other long-lived assets. Such a potential impairment charge could have a material adverse impact on our operating results.. Demand for seismic data is not assured.. Demand for certain of our products and services depends on the level of spending by oil and gas companies for exploration, production and development activities, as well as on the number of crews conducting land, transition zone and marine seismic data acquisition worldwide. The levels of such spending are influenced by:. • oil and gas prices and industry expectations of future price levels;. • the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas;. • the availability of current geophysical data;. • the ability of oil and gas companies to generate funds or otherwise obtain capital for exploration operations;. • the granting of leases or exploration concessions and the expiration of such rights;. • changes to existing laws and regulations;. • domestic and foreign tax policies;. • merger and divestiture activity among oil and gas producers;. • expected rates of declining current production;. • technical advances affecting energy exploration, production, transportation and consumption;. • weather conditions, including hurricanes and monsoons that can affect oil and gas operations over a wide area as well as less severe inclement weather that can preclude or delay seismic acquisition surveys;. • the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves; and. • local and international political and economic conditions.. The cyclical nature of the oil and gas industry can have a significant effect on our revenues and profitability. Historically, oil and natural gas prices, as well as the level of exploration and developmental activity, have fluctuated significantly. These fluctuations have in the past, and may in the future, adversely affect our business. We are unable to predict future oil and natural gas prices or the level of oil and gas industry activity. A prolonged low level of activity in the oil and gas industry will likely depress exploration and development activity, adversely affecting the demand for our products and services and our financial condition and results of operations.. Equipment in our lease pool may be subject to the intellectual property claims of others that could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue from the lease of the equipment.. Certain of the equipment in our lease pool is proprietary to us. Heli-pickers and associated equipment that is manufactured by us is subject to various patents, see Item 1 - \"Business - Intellectual Property.\" We may be subject to infringement claims and other intellectual property disputes as competition in the marketplace continues to intensify. In the future, we may be subject to litigation and may be required to defend against claimed infringements of the rights of others or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Any. 14. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. such litigation could be costly and divert management's attention from operations. In addition, adverse determinations in such litigation could, among other things:. • result in the loss of our proprietary rights to use the technology;. • subject us to significant liabilities;. • require us to seek licenses from third parties; and. • prevent us from leasing or selling our products that incorporate the technology.. Additionally, the equipment that we acquire from other suppliers may be subject to the intellectual property infringement claims from third parties. We generally are indemnified by our suppliers against any claims that may be brought against us by third parties related to equipment they sold to us. However, such claims could affect our ability to acquire additional such products or to lease them in the future. The loss of this future revenue could adversely affect our business and would not generally be covered by the indemnities from our suppliers.. Capital requirements for our business strategy can be large. If we are unable to finance these requirements, we may not be able to maintain our competitive advantage or execute our strategy.. We have historically funded our capital requirements with cash generated from operations, cash reserves, issuance of preferred and common stock and short-term borrowings from commercial banks. Our capital requirements may continue to increase. If we were to expand our operations at a rate exceeding operating cash flow, or current demand or pricing of our services were to decrease substantially or if technical advances or competitive pressures required us to acquire new equipment faster than our cash flow could sustain, additional financing could be required. Access to global financial markets and the terms under which capital is available can be uncertain and volatile. Furthermore, due to the historically cyclical nature of the energy business in general, and the seismic industry in particular, capital for businesses in this industry can be even more difficult and expensive to obtain.. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding will be available if and when needed and to the extent required, on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to grow our existing business, complete acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Access to working capital and letters of credit may be limited.. From time to time, we may require access to working capital to finance inventory purchases or to provide letters of credit or bankers guarantees to certain customers. Historically, we have met this need by utilizing a revolving credit facility. In March 2017 we terminated our revolving Credit Agreement (as defined below) and have not replaced that facility. There is no assurance that we will be able to negotiate a replacement facility or facilities. In recent months, many commercial banks in the United States have undertaken to reduce their exposure to companies engaged in oil and gas related activities. This could further limit our ability to obtain working capital financing. Should we not have access to adequate working capital financing, we may not be able to pursue or complete some business opportunities.. Our operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected if we are unable to continually obtain additional lease contracts.. Our seismic equipment leases typically have a term of two to six months and provide gross revenues that recover only a portion of our capital investment on the initial lease. Our ability to generate lease revenues and profits is dependent on obtaining additional lease contracts after the termination of an original lease. However, lease customers are under no obligation to, and frequently do not, continue to lease seismic equipment after the expiration of a lease. Although we have been successful in obtaining additional lease contracts with other customers after the termination of the original leases, there can be no assurance that we will continue to do so. Our failure to obtain additional leases or extensions beyond the initial lease term would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition.. Our failure to attract and retain key personnel could adversely affect our operations.. Our success is dependent on, among other things, the services of certain key personnel. In September of 2015, Robert P. Capps, Executive Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer, and Guy Malden, Executive Vice President-Marine Systems, assumed the additional roles of Co-Chief Executive Officers. In these roles, Mr. Capps and Mr. Malden are responsible for all day-to-day operations in close coordination with the Board of Directors. The loss of the services of Mr. Capps or Mr. Malden for an extended period of time or the loss of other personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. The high fixed costs of our operations could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our business has high fixed costs. In periods of significant downtime these fixed costs do not decline as rapidly as our revenues. As a result, any significant downtime or low productivity caused by reduced demand could adversely affect our results of operations.. 15. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Our long-lived assets may be subject to impairment.. We periodically assess our long-lived assets, including goodwill, other intangible assets and our lease pool of equipment, for impairment. If we expect significant sustained decreases in oil and natural gas prices in the future, we may be required to write down the value of our long-lived assets if the future cash flows anticipated to be generated from these assets falls below net book value. Declines in oil and natural gas prices, if sustained, could result in future impairments. If we are forced to write down the value of our long-lived assets, these noncash asset impairments could negatively affect our results of operations in the period in which they are recorded. In fiscal 2018 and 2016 we recognized charges for impairment of approximately $1.4 million and $3.6 million, respectively, related to certain intangible assets. See the discussion included in Item 7 - \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies - Long-Lived Assets.\". Our deferred tax assets are subject to impairment.. As of January 31, 2018 we had deferred tax assets before valuation allowances of approximately $21.2 million, including approximately $11.6 million in the United States. The majority of these amounts relate to net operating loss carryforwards. In order to utilize these amounts we must generate taxable income in the relevant jurisdictions sufficient to utilize these carryovers. Based on an evaluation of all available positive and negative evidence regarding the likelihood of realizing these deferred tax assets, as of January 31, 2018 we have recorded a valuation allowance of approximately $21.2 million related to the deferred tax assets. See the discussion included in Item 7 - \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies - Income Taxes.\". Recently enacted changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws could adversely affect our financial position and results of operation.. On December 22, 2017, the United States enacted legislation commonly known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"). The Tax Act contains (i) significant changes to corporate taxation, including reduction of the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, (ii) limitations on the deductibility of interest expense, business entertainment expenses, and executive compensation, and (iii) significant changes to U.S. international taxation, including a one-time repatriation tax on undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries, the exemption from U.S. tax of certain foreign earnings upon their distribution to U.S. corporate shareholders, and the addition of a base erosion and anti-abuse tax. We continue to examine the impact the Tax Act may have on us, and it could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation.. As a company subject to compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the \"FCPA\") and the UK Bribery Act of 2010 (the \"UK Bribery Act\"), our business may suffer because our efforts to comply with these laws could restrict our ability to do business in foreign markets relative to our competitors who are not subject to them. Any determination that we or our foreign agents or partners have violated the FCPA or the UK Bribery Act may adversely affect our business and operations.. We and our local partners operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. We may be subject to competitive disadvantages to the extent that our competitors are able to secure business, licenses or other preferential treatment by making payments to government officials and others in positions of influence or using other methods that U.S. law and regulations prohibit us from using.. As a U.S. corporation, we are subject to the regulations imposed by the FCPA, which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. In particular, we may be held liable for actions taken by our strategic or local partners even though our partners are not subject to the FCPA. Any such violations could result in substantial civil and/or criminal penalties and might adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, our ability to continue to work in such foreign markets could be adversely affected if we were found to have violated certain U.S. laws, including the FCPA.. The UK Bribery Act, which became effective in 2011, is broader in scope than the FCPA and applies to public and private sector corruption and contains no facilitating payments exception as is contained in the FCPA.. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations that could increase our costs of compliance and impose significant liabilities.. We are subject to stringent governmental laws and regulations relating to worker safety and health, protection of the environment and the handling of chemicals and materials used in our manufacturing processes as well as the recycling and disposal of wastes generated by those processes. These laws and regulations may impose joint and several strict liability and failure to comply with such laws and regulations could result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition of investigatory and remedial obligations, and issuance of orders enjoining some or all of our operations. These laws and regulations could require us to acquire permits to conduct regulated activities, install and maintain costly equipment and pollution control technologies, conduct remediation of contaminated soils and groundwater, implement specific health and safety criteria for worker protection, or undertake measures to prevent future contamination or incur other significant environmental-related expenses. Public interest in the protection of the environment has increased dramatically in recent years. If the trend of more expansive and stricter environmental laws and regulations continues, we may be required to increase our capital expenditures and operating expenses, in addition to possibly decreasing the performance of exploration or production activities by. 16. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. energy companies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, increased environmental regulation of oil and natural gas exploration and production activities in any of the countries in which our customers operate could cause them to incur increased costs or curtail operations, which in turn could result in decreased demand for our services and have a material adverse effect on our business.. Climate change laws and regulations restricting emissions of \"greenhouse gases\" could result in reduced demand for oil and natural gas, thereby adversely affecting our business, while the physical effects of climate change could disrupt our manufacturing of seismic equipment and cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects.. In response to findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases (\"GHGs\") present an endangerment to the public health and the environment, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the \"EPA\") has adopted regulations under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act that, among other things, require preconstruction and operating permits for certain large stationary sources. Facilities required to obtain preconstruction permits for their GHG emissions also will be required to meet \"best available control technology\" standards that will be established by the states or, in some cases, by the EPA on a case - by - case basis. In addition the EPA has adopted regulations requiring monitoring and annual reporting of GHG emissions from certain sources, including, among others, certain onshore and offshore oil and natural gas production facilities. In the absence of federal climate legislation, a number of state cap and trade programs have emerged. In May 2016, the EPA finalized new regulations that set methane emission standards for new and modified oil and natural gas production and natural gas processing and transmission facilities. However, substantial uncertainty exists with respect to the future implementation of these rules, as well as the potential for additional regulatory action with respect to emissions of GHGs, due to the recent change in U.S. Presidential Administrations. In addition, many of the other countries where we and our customers operate, including, Canada and Europe, have adopted or are considering GHG reduction measures similar to those described above. Such measures, or any similar future proposals, have the potential to increase costs for the oil and gas industry, which in turn could result in reduced demand for the equipment we provide.. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations that require reporting of GHGs or otherwise limit emissions of GHGs from oil and gas exploration and production activities could have an adverse effect on the demand for our seismic equipment and associated services. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other extreme weather events; if any such effects were to occur, they could adversely affect or delay our manufacturing of seismic equipment and cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects, in addition to any indirect impacts resulting from the disruption of our customers' operations as a result of climate change.. Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in additional operating restrictions or delays and adversely affect our business.. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into targeted surface formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. We do not perform hydraulic fracturing, but many of our customers use this technique. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions, but the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing involving the use of diesel fuels and issued final permitting guidance in February 2014 addressing the performance of such activities using diesel fuels. In addition, in June 2016, the EPA finalized rules that prohibit the discharge of wastewater from hydraulic fracturing operations to publicly owned wastewater treatment plants. At the state level, numerous states have adopted or are considering adopting legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure, and/or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. Moreover, local governments may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdiction regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular. Other counties have adopted or are considering similar restrictions on hydraulic fracturing activities. If new laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such legal requirements could make it more difficult to complete natural gas wells in certain formations and adversely affect demand for our seismic equipment and associated services.. More comprehensive and stringent regulation of offshore oil and natural gas exploration and production operations may result in increased costs or delays, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Offshore oil and natural gas operations are frequently subject to delays and pose additional risks of environmental incidents. The occurrence of such incidents can result in increased regulation that could have an adverse effect on demand for our services. For example, subsequent to the Deepwater Horizon incident in April 2010, the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (\"BOEM\") and the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (\"BSEE\") issued a series of \"Notice to Lessees\" (\"NTLs\") imposing increasingly stringent regulatory requirements and permitting procedures and, at times, issue temporary drilling moratoria, for new wells to be drilled in federal waters of the U.S. Outer Continental Shelf. These agencies may adopt additional environmental and safety measures upon exploration, development and production operators in the Gulf of Mexico in the future. These regulatory initiatives may serve to effectively slow down the pace of drilling and production operations in the Gulf of Mexico as well as increase lead times to obtain necessary approvals for offshore operations. Offshore oil and natural gas exploration and production operators, some of whom are our customers, could become subject to fines, penalties or orders requiring them to modify or suspend operations if they fail to comply with these requirements. Increased regulation in these areas could result in decreased offshore oil and gas exploration and development and consequently adversely affect demand for our services and our financial position, results of operation and cash flows.. 17. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Our business could be negatively affected by security threats, including cybersecurity threats, and other disruptions.. We face various security threats, including cybersecurity threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable, threats to the security of our facilities, and threats from terrorist acts. The potential for such security threats subjects our operations to increased risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business. In particular, our implementation of various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate security threats and to increase security for our information, facilities and infrastructure may result in increased capital and operating costs. Moreover, there can be no assurance that such procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent security breaches from occurring. If any of these security breaches were to occur, they could lead to losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure or capabilities essential to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Cybersecurity attacks in particular are becoming more sophisticated and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, and corruption of data. These events could damage our reputation and lead to financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability.. We may grow through acquisitions and our failure to properly plan and manage those acquisitions may adversely affect our performance.. We plan to expand not only through organic growth, but may also do so through the strategic acquisition of companies and assets. We must plan and manage any acquisitions effectively to achieve revenue growth and maintain profitability in our evolving market. For example, we recently completed the acquisition of intellectual property and certain other assets from Hydroscience Technologies, Inc., and in connection therewith, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. (\"MHI\") has agreed to purchase an additional 21,756 shares of our Preferred Stock (as defined below) for $500,000 upon the satisfaction of certain conditions specified in the securities purchase agreement between us and MHI. There can be no assurances, however, that such conditions will be satisfied or that the expected benefits of the Hydroscience Acquisition will be fully realized, if at all. If we fail to manage acquisitions effectively, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our growth has placed, and is expected to continue to place, significant demands on our personnel, management and other resources. We must continue to improve our operational, financial, management, legal compliance and information systems to keep pace with the growth of our business.. Any future acquisitions could present a number of risks, including but not limited to:. • incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of acquired operations or assets or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of acquiring operations or assets;. • failure to integrate the operations or management of any acquired operations or assets successfully and timely;. • diversion of management's attention from existing operations or other priorities; and. • our inability to secure sufficient financing, on terms we find acceptable, that may be required for any such acquisition or investment.. Our stock price is subject to volatility.. Energy and energy service company stock prices, including our stock price, have been volatile from time to time. Stock price volatility could adversely affect our business operations by, among other things, impeding our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel and to obtain additional financing.. In addition to the other risk factors discussed in this section, the price and volume volatility of our common stock may be affected by:. • operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors;. • factors influencing the levels of global oil and natural gas exploration and exploitation activities, such as depressed prices for natural gas in North America or disasters such as the Deepwater Horizon incident in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010;. • the operating and securities price performance of companies that investors or analysts consider comparable to us;. • announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; and. • changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest rates, commodity and equity prices and the value of financial assets.. To the extent that the price of our common stock remains at lower levels or it declines further, our ability to raise funds through the issuance of equity or otherwise use our common stock as consideration will be reduced. In addition, increases in our leverage may make it more difficult for us to access additional capital. These factors may limit our ability to implement our operating and growth plans.. 18. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Because we do not currently pay any dividends on our common stock, investors must look solely to stock appreciation for a return on their investment in us.. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock since our incorporation and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any future earnings attributable to our common stock to support our operations and growth. Any payment of cash dividends on our common stock in the future will be dependent on the amount of funds legally available, our financial condition, capital requirements and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment.. We may issue debt or equity securities with rights senior to that of our common stock in liquidation which could dilute or negatively affect the value of our common stock.. Through April 3, 2018 we have issued 684,286 shares of 9.00% Series A Cumulative Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share (the \"Series A Preferred Stock\"), with a liquidation preference of $25.00 per share. In addition, we have entered into an agreement in connection with the Hydroscience Acquisition to issue an additional 21,756 shares to Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. (\"MHI\"), subject to certain conditions. Furthermore, we have entered into an equity distribution agreement, pursuant to which we may sell up to an additional 293,958 shares of the Series A Preferred Stock through an at the market program. The Series A Preferred Stock has a liquidation preference senior to that of our common stock. In order to raise additional capital, in the future, we may issue other debt securities or equity securities with a liquidation preference senior to that of our common stock. In the event of our liquidation, our lenders and holders of our debt and preferred securities could receive a distribution of our available assets before distributions to the holders of our common stock. The issuance of these securities could dilute or negatively affect the value of our common stock.. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and Texas law could discourage a takeover attempt, which may reduce or eliminate the likelihood of a change of control transaction and, therefore, the ability of our shareholders to sell their shares for a premium.. Provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and the Texas Business Organizations Code may tend to delay, defer or prevent a potential unsolicited offer or takeover attempt that is not approved by our Board of Directors but that our shareholders might consider to be in their best interest, including an attempt that might result in shareholders receiving a premium over the market price for their shares. Because our Board of Directors is authorized to issue preferred stock with preferences and rights as it determines, it may afford the holders of any series of preferred stock preferences, rights or voting powers superior to those of the holders of common stock."
