[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks below, as well as all of the other information contained in this Report and our financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Report, in evaluating our company and our business. Any of these risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the trading price of our common shares. See \"Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements\" at the beginning of this Report for additional risks.. Risks Relating to our Business. Our quarterly and annual revenues and operating results have historically fluctuated and the results of one period may not provide a reliable indicator of our future performance.. Our quarterly and annual revenues and operating results have historically fluctuated and are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. A number of factors may cause our financial results to fluctuate significantly from period to period, including:. <U+0095>   general economic and capital markets conditions;. <U+0095>   the fact that an individual order or contract can represent a substantial amount of revenues for that period;. <U+0095>   the size, timing and shipment of individual orders or customer subscriptions;. <U+0095>   changes in pricing or discount levels by us or our competitors;. <U+0095>   changes in foreign currency exchange rates;. <U+0095>   the mix of products and services sold by us;. <U+0095>   the timing of the announcement, introduction and delivery of new products, programs, services and product enhancements by us or our competitors;. <U+0095>   the ability to execute on our strategy and operating plans;. <U+0095>   the effect of acquisitions and dispositions;. <U+0095>   actual events, circumstances, outcomes and amounts differing from judgments, assumptions and estimates used in determining the values of certain assets (including the amounts of related valuation allowances), liabilities and other items reflected in our consolidated financial statements;. <U+0095>   changes in tax laws, regulations or accounting rules;. <U+0095>   our ability to maintain appropriate inventory levels and purchase commitments;. <U+0095>   the overall movement toward industry consolidation among both our competitors and our customers;. <U+0095>   slowing sales or variations in sales rates by our channel partners to their customers;. <U+0095>   in our cloud segment, customer discontinuance or reduction of their subscriptions, our ability to accurately predict those changes and costs we may incur acquiring new customers as a result;. <U+0095>   changes to our global organization and retention of key personnel;. <U+0095>   fluctuations in our gross margins, and the factors that contribute to such fluctuations;. <U+0095>   changes in the underlying factors and assumptions used in determining stock-based compensation;. <U+0095>   long and variable sales cycles and or regulatory approval cycles; and. <U+0095>   material security breaches or service interruptions due to cyberattacks or infrastructure failures or unavailability.. As a result of the above factors, a quarterly or yearly comparison of our results of operations is not necessarily meaningful. Prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. If our operating results are below the expectations of the stock market, securities analysts or investors, or below any financial guidance we may provide to the market, our share price will likely decline.. 6. Table of Contents. If we do not successfully execute our strategic operating plan, or if our strategic operating plan is flawed, our business could be negatively affected.. Each year, we review and update our strategic operating plan, which provides a road map for implementing our business strategy for the next three years. Allocation of resources, investment decisions, product life cycles, process improvements, strategic alliances and acquisitions are based on this plan. In developing the strategic plan, we make certain assumptions including, but not limited to, those related to the market environment, customer demand, evolving technologies, competition, market consolidation, the global economy and our overall strategic operating plan for the upcoming fiscal year. If we do not successfully execute on our strategic operating plan, or if actual results vary significantly from our assumptions, our business could be adversely impacted. Potential adverse impacts include, but are not limited to, investments made in research and development that do not develop into commercially successful products, lower revenues due to our sales focus not being aligned with customer demand or an inability to compete effectively against competitors, operating inefficiencies, or unsuccessful strategic alliances or acquisitions.. We have made strategic acquisitions and may make strategic acquisitions in the future. We may not be successful in operating or integrating these acquisitions or in completing acquisitions that we may agree to make in the future.. In September 2017, we acquired ShoreTel, Inc. As part of our business strategy, we may consider further acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses that offer complementary or adjacent products, services and technologies. Mergers and acquisitions of technology companies are inherently risky. Strategic acquisitions or investments could materially adversely affect our operating results and the price of our common shares. Strategic acquisitions and investments, including but not limited to the acquisition of ShoreTel, involve significant risks and uncertainties, including:. <U+0095>   unanticipated costs and liabilities;. <U+0095>   difficulties in marketing and integrating new products, software, businesses, operations and technology infrastructure in an efficient, effective and secure manner, including the integration of businesses where a portion or all of the business is in an adjacent industry;. <U+0095>   the inability to achieve synergy and cost reduction targets assumed at the time of acquisition;. <U+0095>   difficulties in maintaining customer and key supplier relations;. <U+0095>   the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses, including as a result of cultural differences between the acquired company and our own;. <U+0095>   the diversion of the attention of our senior management from the operation of our daily business;. <U+0095>   the potential adverse effect on our net debt and liquidity position as a result of all or a portion of an acquisition purchase price being paid in cash;. <U+0095>   the potential significant increase of our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition;. <U+0095>   the potential issuance of securities that would dilute our shareholders' percentage ownership;. <U+0095>   the potential to incur restructuring and other related expenses, including significant transaction costs that may be incurred regardless of whether a potential strategic acquisition or investment is completed;. <U+0095>   the inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures, including the inability to establish and maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting;. <U+0095>   difficulties in entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions;. <U+0095>   potential impairment charges on higher levels of goodwill and intangible assets as a result of impairment testing performed on a regular basis;. <U+0095>   higher amortization expenses related to acquired definite-lived intangible assets; and. <U+0095>   becoming subject to intellectual property or other litigation.. In addition, as part of our business strategy, we may consider dispositions of assets that do not form part of our core business. Many of the risks described above can also apply to any such dispositions. As well, in connection with dispositions, we may be subject to additional risks, including risks relating to post-closing indemnification provisions and risks relating to the receipt by us of non-cash consideration, including risks related to our ability to realize on the expected value of any non-cash consideration received in connection with a disposition. For example, part of the consideration that we received in connection with the sale of the Mobile. 7. Table of Contents. business unit included a $35 million non-interest bearing promissory note and an equity interest in the limited partnership that owns the Mobile business unit. We may not be able to realize on the expected value of the non-cash portion of the consideration received, including because the promissory note may not be repaid in full, or at all, and we may not receive any distributions on the limited partnership units.. Our inability to successfully operate and integrate newly acquired businesses appropriately, effectively and in a timely manner, our inability to realize upon the expected benefits of any asset acquisition or disposition, or our inability to successfully complete acquisitions or dispositions that we may agree to make in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to take advantage of future growth opportunities and other advances in technology, as well as on our revenues, gross margins and expenses. No assurance can be given that any particular acquisition or disposition will be completed or that our previous or future acquisitions or dispositions will be successful or will not materially adversely affect our financial condition or operating results. Prior acquisitions have resulted in a wide range of outcomes.. Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions in key markets, particularly the United States, Germany, the United Kingdom, France, Sweden, Switzerland and elsewhere in Europe.. Challenging economic conditions worldwide, particularly in the United States and in Europe, have, from time to time, contributed, and may continue to contribute, to slowdowns in the communications industry at large, as well as in specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in, but not limited to:. <U+0095>   reduced demand for our products;. <U+0095>   increased price competition for our products;. <U+0095>   risk of excess and obsolete inventories;. <U+0095>   risk of supply constraints;. <U+0095>   risk of manufacturing capacity;. <U+0095>   higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenue; and. <U+0095>   higher interest expense.. The global macroeconomic environment is challenging and volatile. Instability in the global credit markets, central bank monetary policies, the instability in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world and other disruptions, such as changes in energy costs, the United Kingdom's ongoing process of withdrawal from the European Union, regulatory and policy uncertainty in the United States, and uncertainty surrounding international trade arrangements, such as NAFTA, may adversely impact global economic conditions. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in key markets remain uncertain, we may experience material impacts on our business, operating results, and financial condition.. Our financial results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in exchange rates.. Our financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars while a significant portion of our revenue is earned, and a substantial portion of our operating expenses are payable, in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, in particular the Euro, British pound sterling, Canadian dollar, Swedish krona, Australian dollar, and Swiss franc. Due to the substantial volatility of currency exchange rates, exchange rate fluctuations may have an adverse impact on our future revenues or expenses presented in our financial statements.. We use financial instruments, principally forward foreign currency contracts, to partially mitigate our foreign currency exposure. These contracts generally require us to purchase or sell certain foreign currencies with or for U.S. dollars at contracted rates. These financial instruments only partially mitigate our foreign currency exposure, leaving a significant portion of our revenues and operating expenses subject to exchange rate fluctuations. As a result, foreign currency fluctuations may have an adverse impact on our future revenues, operating expenses and results of operations. In addition, we may be exposed to credit loss in the event of non-performance by the counterparties to the financial instruments.. We expect gross margin percentage to vary over time, and our level of product gross margin may not be sustainable.. Our gross margin percentage has historically fluctuated, primarily as the result of acquisitions, changes in product mix, changes in production costs and price competition. Our current gross margin percentage may not be sustainable and our gross margin percentage may decrease. A decrease in gross margin percentage can be the result of numerous factors, including:. <U+0095>   acquisitions with a lower gross margin percentage than Mitel;. 8. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   changes in customer, geographic, or product mix, including mix of configurations within each product group;. <U+0095>   introduction of new products, including products with price-performance advantages;. <U+0095>   our ability to reduce production costs;. <U+0095>   entry into new markets or growth in lower margin markets, including markets with different pricing and cost structures;. <U+0095>   additional sales discounts;. <U+0095>   changes in the financial health of contract manufacturers or suppliers or increases in related material, component, labor or other manufacturing and inventory related costs;. <U+0095>   the timing of revenue recognition and revenue deferrals;. <U+0095>   a decrease in revenues, while certain distribution costs remain fixed;. <U+0095>   lower than expected benefits from value engineering;. <U+0095>   increased price competition;. <U+0095>   changes in distribution channels;. <U+0095>   increased warranty costs; and. <U+0095>   overall execution of our strategy and operating plans.. If any of these factors, or other factors unknown to us at this time, occur then our gross margin percentage could be adversely affected, which could lead to an adverse effect, which could be material on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on our channel partners (which includes our wholesale distribution channel) for a significant component of our sales and so disruptions to, or our failure to effectively develop and manage, our distribution channel and the processes and procedures that support it, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues.. Our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of channel partners. A substantial portion of our revenues is derived through and dependent upon our channel partners, most of which also sell our competitors' products. In addition, many potential channel partners have established relationships with our competitors and may not be willing to invest the time and resources required to train their staff to effectively market our solutions and services. The loss of, or reduction in, sales to these channel partners could materially reduce our revenues. Our competitors may in some cases be effective in causing our channel partners or potential channel partners to favor their products or prevent or reduce sales of our solutions. If we fail to maintain relationships with these channel partners, fail to develop new relationships with channel partners in new markets or expand the number of channel partners in existing markets, fail to manage, train or provide appropriate incentives to existing channel partners or if these channel partners are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our solutions may decrease and our operating results would suffer.. We face intense competition from many competitors and we may not be able to compete effectively against these competitors.. The market for our solutions is highly competitive. In addition, because the market for our solutions is subject to rapidly changing technologies, we may face competition in the future from companies that do not currently compete in our business communications market, including companies that currently compete in other sectors of the information technology, communications or software markets, including mobile communications companies or communications companies that serve residential customers, rather than business customers.. Several of our existing competitors have, and many of our future potential competitors may have, greater financial, personnel, research, project management and other resources, more well-established brands or reputations and broader customer bases than we have. As a result, these competitors may be in a stronger position to respond more effectively to potential acquisitions and other market opportunities, new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Some of these competitors may also have customer bases that are more diversified than ours and therefore may be less affected by an economic downturn in a particular region. Competitors with greater resources may also be able to offer lower prices, additional products or services or other incentives that we do not offer or cannot match.. 9. Table of Contents. Competition from existing and potential market entrants may take many forms:. <U+0095>   To the extent our competitors supply products that compete with our own, it is possible these competitors could design their technologies to be closed or proprietary systems that are incompatible with our products or work less effectively with our products than their own. As a result, customers would have an incentive to purchase products that are compatible with the products and technologies of our competitors over our products. A lack of interoperability may result in significant redesign costs, and harm relations with our customers;. <U+0095>   To the extent our competitors offer sales models, such as a subscription based models, that compete with our own offerings, it is possible that these offerings may be more attractive to our customers. As a result, customers may prefer our competitors' products over our products;. <U+0095>   Our competitors may provide large bundled offerings that incorporate applications and products similar to those that we offer; and. <U+0095>   If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products or services in an effort to recapture or gain market share, we may be required to lower our prices or offer other favorable terms to compete effectively, which would reduce our revenues and gross margins and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. Please see Item 1, \"Business - Competition\" in Part I in this Annual Report for a list of our competitors.. Industry consolidation may lead to increased competition and may harm our operating results.. There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for several years. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue all or a portion of their operations. Companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us. We believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. This could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our solutions may fail to keep pace with rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and customer demands and requirements.. The markets in which we operate are characterized by rapid, and sometimes disruptive, technological developments, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introduction and enhancements and changes in customer requirements. Our products and services, or third-party solutions with which our products interface, can evolve rapidly and in ways we may not anticipate. The process of anticipating trends and evolving industry standards and developing new solutions is complex and uncertain, and if we fail to accurately identify, predict and respond to our customers' changing needs, and emerging technological trends, our business could be harmed. We commit significant resources to developing new solutions before knowing whether our investments will result in solutions that the market will accept.. Our operating results may be adversely affected if the market opportunity for our products and services does not develop in the ways that we anticipate, if our products become incompatible with third-party solutions or if other technologies become more accepted or standard in our industry.. We are dependent on our customers' decisions to purchase our solutions.. Our business remains dependent on customer decisions to migrate their legacy communications infrastructures to solutions based on newer technology. While these investment decisions are often driven by macroeconomic factors, customers may also delay the purchase of newer technology due to a range of other factors, including prioritization of other IT projects, delays or failures to meet certifications requirements of certain of our customers and the weighing of the costs and benefits of deploying new infrastructures and devices. The purchase of our solutions among new or existing customers may not grow at the rates we currently anticipate.. A breach of the security of our information systems, those of our third-party providers, or other parties that we do business with, could adversely affect our operating results.. In the current environment, there are numerous and evolving risks to cybersecurity and privacy, including criminal hackers, state-sponsored intrusions, industrial espionage, employee malfeasance, and human or technological error. Computer hackers and others routinely attempt to breach the security of technology products, services, and systems such as ours, and those of customers, third-party contractors and vendors, and some of those attempts may be successful. We are not immune to these types of intrusions.. 10. Table of Contents. Our products, services, network systems, and servers may store, process or transmit proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including valuable intellectual property and personal information, of ours and of our employees, customers and other third parties. We are also subject to existing and proposed laws and regulations, as well as government policies and practices, related to cybersecurity, privacy and data protection and cross-border data transfer regulations worldwide.. Although we take cybersecurity seriously and devote significant resources and deploy protective network security tools and devices, data encryption and other security measures to prevent unwanted intrusions and to protect our systems, products and data, we have and will continue to experience cyber-attacks of varying degrees in the conduct of our business. As a result, our network may be subject to unauthorized access, viruses, embedded malware and other malicious software programs. Such intrusions may result in unauthorized access to or disclosure, modification, misuse, loss, or destruction of company, customer, or other third-party data or systems, the theft of sensitive or confidential data including intellectual property and business and personal information, system disruptions, access to our financial reporting systems, operational interruptions, product or shipment disruptions or delays, and delays in or cessation of the services we offer.. Any such breaches or unauthorized access to our networks, our products or services, or those of third-party products incorporated into our solutions, could ultimately result in significant legal and financial exposure, litigation, regulatory and enforcement action, and loss of valuable company intellectual property. Such breaches could also cause damage to our reputation, impact the market's perception of us and of the products and services that we offer, and cause an overall loss of confidence in the security of our products and services, resulting in a potentially material adverse effect on our business, revenues and results of operations, as well as customer attrition.. In addition, the cost and operational consequences of investigating, remediating, eliminating and putting in place additional information technology (IT) tools and devices designed to prevent actual or perceived security breaches, as well as the costs to comply with any notification obligations resulting from such a breach, could be significant. Further, due to the growing sophistication of the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or to sabotage networks and systems, which change frequently and often are not detected immediately by existing antivirus and other detection tools, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. We can make no assurance that we will be able to detect, prevent, timely and adequately address or mitigate such cyber-attacks or security breaches. Our cyber-risk insurance coverage and limits may not be sufficient to compensate for losses or damages that may occur.. Other risks that may result from interruptions to our business due to cyber-attacks are discussed in the risk factor entitled \"Business interruptions could adversely affect our operations.\". Our business may be harmed if we infringe intellectual property rights of third parties.. There is considerable patent and other intellectual property development activity in our industry. Our success depends, in part, upon not infringing intellectual property rights owned by others. Our competitors, as well as a number of individuals, patent holding companies and consortiums, own, or claim to own, intellectual property relating to our industry. Our solutions may infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. We cannot determine with certainty whether any existing third-party patent, or the issuance of new third-party patents, would require us to alter our solutions, obtain licenses, pay royalties or discontinue the sale of the affected applications and products. Our competitors may use their patent portfolios in an increasingly offensive manner in the future. We are currently and periodically involved in patent infringement disputes with third parties, including claims that have been made against us for the payment of licensing fees. We have received notices in the past, and we may receive additional notices in the future, containing allegations that our solutions are subject to patents or other proprietary rights of third parties, including competitors, patent holding companies and consortiums. Current or future negotiations with third parties to establish license or cross-license arrangements, or to renew existing licenses, may not be successful and we may not be able to obtain or renew a license on satisfactory terms, or at all. If required licenses cannot be obtained, or if existing licenses are not renewed, litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our success also depends upon our customers' ability to use our products. In the past, claims of patent infringement have been asserted against some of our channel partners based on their use of our solutions, and there may be similar claims made in the future. We generally agree to indemnify and defend our channel partners and direct customers to the extent a claim for infringement is brought against our customers with respect to our solutions.. Aggressive patent litigation is common in our industry and can be disruptive. Infringement claims (or claims for indemnification resulting from infringement claims) have been and may in the future be asserted or prosecuted against us, our channel partners or our customers by third parties. Some of these third parties, including our competitors, patent holding companies and consortiums, have, or have access to, substantially greater resources than we do and may be better able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation. Whether or not the claims against us, our channel partners or our customers, or those that may be brought in the future, have merit, we. 11. Table of Contents. may be subject to costly and time-consuming legal proceedings. Such claims could also harm our reputation and divert our management's attention from operating our business. If these claims are successfully asserted against us, we could be required to pay substantial damages (including enhanced damages and attorneys' fees if infringement is found to be willful). We could also be forced to obtain a license, which may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, forced to redesign our solutions to make them non-infringing, which redesign may not be possible or, if possible, costly and time-consuming, or prevented from selling some or all of our solutions.. Our success is, in part, dependent on our intellectual property. Our inability or failure to secure, protect and maintain our intellectual property could seriously harm our ability to compete and our financial success.. Our success depends in part on the intellectual property in the solutions that we develop and sell. We rely upon a combination of copyright, patent, trade secrets, trademarks, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology. Our present protective measures may not be enforceable or adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology or independent third-party development of the same or similar technology. Even if our patents are held valid and enforceable, others may be able to design around these patents or develop products competitive to our products but that are outside the scope of our patents.. Any of our patents may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. We may not be successful should one or more of our patents be challenged for any reason. If our patent claims are rendered invalid or unenforceable, or narrowed in scope, the patent coverage afforded to our solutions could be impaired, which could significantly impede our ability to market our products, negatively affect our competitive position and materially adversely affect our business and operating results.. Pending or future patent applications held by us may not result in an issued patent, or if patents are issued to us, such patents may not provide meaningful protection against competitors or against competitive technologies. We may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or trade secrets by consultants, vendors, former employees and current employees, despite the existence of nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other contractual restrictions. Furthermore, many foreign jurisdictions offer less protection of intellectual property rights than the United States, Canada and the European Union, and the protection provided to our proprietary technology by the laws of these and other foreign jurisdictions may not be sufficient to protect our technology. Preventing the unauthorized use of our proprietary technology may be difficult, time consuming and costly, in part because it may be difficult to discover unauthorized use by third parties. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights, or to defend against claims of unenforceability or invalidity. Any litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition regardless of its outcome.. Some of the software used with our products, as well as that of some of our customers, may be derived from so-called \"open source\" software that is made generally available to the public by its authors and/or other third parties. Such open source software is often made available to us under licenses, such as the GNU General Public License, that impose certain obligations on us in the event we were to make derivative works of the open source software. These obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to the public, or license such derivative works under an open source license or another particular type of license, potentially granting third parties certain rights to the software, rather than the forms of license customarily used to protect our intellectual property. Failure to comply with such obligations can result in the termination of our distribution of products that contain the open source code or the public dissemination of any enhancements that we made to the open source code. We may also incur legal expenses in defending against claims that we did not abide by such open source licenses. In the event the copyright holder of any open source software or another party in interest were to successfully establish in court that we had not complied with the terms of a license for a particular work, we could be subject to potential damages and could be required to release the source code of that work to the public, grant third parties certain rights to the source code or stop distribution of that work. Any of these outcomes could disrupt our distribution and sale of related products and materially adversely affect our business.. We rely on trade secrets and other forms of non-patent intellectual property protection. If we are unable to protect our trade secrets, other companies may be able to compete more effectively against us.. We rely on trade secrets, know-how and technology that are not protected by patents to maintain our competitive position. We try to protect this information by entering into confidentiality agreements with parties that have access to it, such as our partners, collaborators, employees and consultants. Any of these parties may breach these agreements and we may not have adequate remedies for any specific breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. To the extent that our partners, collaborators, employees and consultants use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights to the related or resulting know-how and inventions. If any of our trade secrets, know-how or other technologies not protected by a patent were to be disclosed to, or independently developed by, a competitor, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. 12. Table of Contents. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we, or our employees, have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers.. Many of our employees may have been previously employed at other companies which provide integrated communications solutions, including our competitors or potential competitors. We may be subject to claims that these employees, or we, have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary claims, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize certain product candidates, which would adversely affect our commercial development efforts, business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business requires a significant amount of cash and we may require additional sources of funds if our sources of liquidity are unavailable or insufficient to fund our operations.. We may not generate sufficient cash from operations to meet anticipated working capital requirements, execute our strategic operating plans, support additional capital expenditures or take advantage of acquisition opportunities. In order to finance our business, we may need to utilize available borrowings under our available credit facilities. Our ability to continually access our facilities is conditional upon our compliance with covenants contained in the terms governing these facilities. We may not be in compliance with such covenants in the future. We may need to secure additional sources of funding if our cash and borrowings under our revolving credit facility are unavailable or insufficient to finance our operations. Such funding may not be available on terms satisfactory to us, or at all. In addition, any proceeds from the issuance of debt may be required to be used, in whole or in part, to make mandatory payments under our credit agreements. If we were to incur higher levels of debt, we would require a larger portion of our operating cash flow to be used to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness. The increased use of cash to pay indebtedness could leave us with insufficient funds to finance our operating activities, such as R&D expenses and capital expenditures. In addition, any new debt instruments may contain covenants or other restrictions that affect our business operations. If we were to raise additional funds by selling equity securities, the relative ownership of our existing investors could be diluted or the new investors could obtain terms more favorable than previous investors.. We have a significant amount of debt. This debt contains customary default clauses, a breach of which may result in acceleration of the repayment of some or all of this debt.. As at December 31, 2017, we had $633.6 million outstanding under our senior secured credit facilities. The senior credit facilities consist of an initial $150.0 million term loan, a $300.0 million incremental term loan and a $350.0 million revolving facility. The term loan and revolving credit facility mature in March 2022 and the incremental term loan matures in September 2023. The credit agreement relating to these facilities has customary default clauses. In the event we were to default on this credit agreement, and were unable to cure or obtain a waiver of default, the repayment of our debt owing under this credit agreement may be accelerated. If acceleration were to occur, we would be required to secure alternative sources of equity or debt financing to be able to repay the debt. Alternative financing may not be available on terms satisfactory to us, or at all. New debt financing may require the cooperation and agreement of our existing lenders. If acceptable alternative financing were unavailable, we would have to consider alternatives to fund the repayment of the debt, including the sale of part or all of the business, which sale may occur at a distressed price.. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly impact our ability to operate our business.. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain covenants that place limitations on the dollar amounts paid or other actions relating to:. <U+0095>   payments in respect of, or redemptions or acquisitions of, debt or equity issued by us or our subsidiaries, including the payment of dividends on our common shares;. <U+0095>   incurring additional indebtedness;. <U+0095>   incurring guarantee obligations;. <U+0095>   engaging in sales or other dispositions of assets;. 13. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   creating liens on assets;. <U+0095>   entering into sale and leaseback transactions;. <U+0095>   making investments, loans or advances;. <U+0095>   entering into hedging transactions;. <U+0095>   engaging in mergers, consolidations or sales of all or substantially all of our assets; and. <U+0095>   engaging in certain transactions with affiliates.. In addition, we are required to maintain a maximum consolidated total net leverage ratio and minimum interest coverage ratio as set forth in the agreements governing such indebtedness. Our ability to comply with these covenant in future periods will depend on our ongoing financial and operating performance, which in turn will be subject to economic conditions and to financial, market and competitive factors, many of which are beyond our control. The ability to comply with these covenant in future periods will also depend on our ability to successfully implement our overall business strategy and realize contemplated acquisition synergies.. Our working capital requirements and cash flows are subject to fluctuation which could have an adverse effect on us.. Our working capital requirements and cash flows have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, subject to quarterly and yearly fluctuations, depending on a number of factors. If we are unable to manage fluctuations in cash flow, our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. For example, if we are unable to effectively manage fluctuations in our cash flows, we may be unable to make required interest payments on our indebtedness. Key factors which could result in cash flow fluctuations include:. <U+0095>   the level of sales and the related margins on those sales;. <U+0095>   the timing of, and amount paid for, acquisitions;. <U+0095>   the timing of receivables collections;. <U+0095>   the timing and volume of sales of leases to third-party funding sources and the timing and volume of any repurchase obligations in respect of such sales;. <U+0095>   the timing and size of capital expenditures;. <U+0095>   the timing and size of purchase of inventory and related components;. <U+0095>   the size of the annual mandatory excess cash flow repayments on our senior secured credit facilities;. <U+0095>   the timing of payment on payables and accrued liabilities;. <U+0095>   the effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on foreign currency cash flows; and. <U+0095>   costs associated with potential restructuring actions.. If any of these aforementioned factors were to occur, our cash flow could be negatively impacted and have a material adverse effect on our liquidity position and financial condition.. Because we depend upon a small number of outside contract manufacturers, our operations could be delayed or interrupted if we encounter problems with these contractors.. We do not have any internal manufacturing capabilities, and we rely upon a limited number of contract manufacturers. Our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed or interrupted as a result of a variety of factors relating to our contract manufacturers, including:. <U+0095>   failure to effectively manage our contract manufacturer relationships;. <U+0095>   our contract manufacturers experiencing delays, disruptions or quality control problems in their manufacturing operations;. <U+0095>   lead-times for required materials and components varying significantly and being dependent on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms and the demand for each component at a given time;. 14. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   under-estimating our requirements, resulting in our contract manufacturers having inadequate materials and components required to produce our products, or overestimating our requirements, resulting in charges assessed by the contract manufacturers or liabilities for excess inventory, each of which could negatively affect our gross margins; and. <U+0095>   the possible absence of adequate capacity and reduced control over component availability, quality assurances, delivery schedules, manufacturing yields and costs.. We are also exposed to risks relating to the financial viability of our contract manufacturers as a result of business and industry risks that affect those manufacturers. In order to finance their businesses during economic downturns or otherwise, our contract manufacturers may need to secure additional sources of equity or debt financing. Such funding may not be available on terms satisfactory to them, or at all, which could result in a material disruption to our production requirements.. If any of our contract manufacturers are unable or unwilling to continue manufacturing our products in required volumes and quality levels, we will have to identify, qualify, select and implement acceptable alternative manufacturers, which would likely be time consuming and costly. In particular, certain contract manufacturers are sole manufacturing sources for certain of our products. A failure of our contract manufacturers to satisfy our manufacturing needs on a timely basis, as a result of the factors described above or otherwise, could result in a material disruption to our business until another manufacturer is identified and able to produce the same products, which could take a substantial amount of time, during which our results of operations, financial condition and reputation among our customers and within our industry could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, alternate sources may not be available to us or may not be in a position to satisfy our production requirements on a timely basis or at commercially reasonable prices and quality. Therefore, any significant interruption in manufacturing could result in us being unable to deliver the affected products to meet our customer orders.. We depend on sole source and limited source suppliers for key components. If these components are not available on a timely basis, or at all, we may not be able to meet scheduled product deliveries to our customers.. We depend on sole source and limited source suppliers for key components of our products. In addition, our contract manufacturers often acquire these components through purchase orders and may have no long-term commitments regarding supply or pricing from their suppliers. Lead times for various components may lengthen, which may make certain components scarce. As component demand increases and lead-times become longer, our suppliers may increase component costs. We also depend on anticipated product orders to determine our materials requirements. Lead times for limited source materials and components can be as long as six months, vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms and demand for a component at a given time. From time to time, shortages in allocations of components have resulted in delays in filling orders. Shortages and delays in obtaining components in the future could impede our ability to meet customer orders. Any of these sole source or limited source suppliers could stop producing the components, cease operations entirely, or be acquired by, or enter into exclusive arrangements with, our competitors. As a result, these sole source and limited source suppliers may stop selling their components to our contract manufacturers at commercially reasonable prices, or at all. Any such interruption, delay or inability to obtain these components from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time would adversely affect our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to our customers and reduce margins realized by us.. Delay in the delivery of, or lack of access to, software or other intellectual property licensed from our suppliers could adversely affect our ability to develop and deliver our solutions on a timely and reliable basis.. Our business may be harmed by a delay in delivery of software applications from one or more of our suppliers. Many of our solutions are designed to include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various components in our solutions. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Moreover, the inclusion in our solutions of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a non-exclusive basis could limit our ability to protect our proprietary rights to our solutions. Non-exclusive licenses also allow our suppliers to develop relationships with, and supply similar or the same software applications to, our competitors. Our software licenses could terminate in the event of a bankruptcy or insolvency of a software supplier or other third-party licensor. Our software licenses could also terminate in the event such software infringes third-party intellectual property rights. We have not entered into source code escrow agreements with every software supplier or third-party licensor, and we could lose the ability to use such licensed software or implement it in our solutions in the event the licensor breaches its obligations to us. In the event that software suppliers or other third-party licensors terminate their relationships with us, are unable to fill our orders on a timely basis or their licenses are otherwise terminated, we may be unable to deliver the affected products to meet our customer orders.. 15. Table of Contents. Our operations in international markets involve inherent risks that we may not be able to control.. We do business in approximately 100 countries. Accordingly, our results could be materially and adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors relating to international business operations, including:. <U+0095>   macroeconomic conditions adversely affecting geographies where we do business;. <U+0095>   foreign currency exchange rates;. <U+0095>   geopolitical developments, such as the United Kingdom's ongoing process of withdrawal from the European Union, and uncertainty surrounding international trade arrangements, such as NAFTA;. <U+0095>   political or social unrest or economic instability in a specific country or region;. <U+0095>   economic sanctions imposed by or against countries where we do business;. <U+0095>   higher costs of doing business in foreign countries;. <U+0095>   infringement claims on foreign patents, copyrights or trademark rights;. <U+0095>   difficulties in staffing and managing operations across disparate geographic areas;. <U+0095>   difficulties associated with enforcing agreements and intellectual property rights through foreign legal systems;. <U+0095>   trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements;. <U+0095>   adverse tax consequences;. <U+0095>   unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements;. <U+0095>   military conflict, terrorist activities, natural disasters and medical epidemics; and. <U+0095>   our ability to recruit and retain channel partners in foreign jurisdictions.. Changes in our provision for income taxes or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our results.. Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by numerous factors, including:. <U+0095>   earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates;. <U+0095>   changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities;. <U+0095>   expiration of R&D tax credits and loss carryforwards;. <U+0095>   expiration of or lapses in tax incentives;. <U+0095>   transfer pricing adjustments;. <U+0095>   tax effects of nondeductible compensation;. <U+0095>   tax costs related to intercompany realignments;. <U+0095>   changes in accounting principles; and. <U+0095>   changes in tax laws and regulations, treaties, or interpretations thereof, including possible changes to the taxation of earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, the deductibility of expenses attributable to foreign income, or the foreign tax credit rules. US tax reform legislation was enacted on December 22, 2017. Some of the specific details have yet to be clarified and therefore, management has estimated the implications based on the best information available. Therefore, there may be further impacts on the Company as further clarification and interpretation of certain aspects of the US Tax Reform are released.. Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement prescribed in the accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes. The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), an international association of countries including the United States, is contemplating changes to numerous long-standing tax principles. These contemplated changes, if finalized and adopted by countries, will increase tax uncertainty and may adversely affect our provision for income taxes. Further, as a result of certain of our ongoing employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income in certain countries is subject to reduced tax rates. Our failure to meet these commitments could adversely impact our provision for income taxes.. 16. Table of Contents. We are also subject to the periodic examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from such examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.. Transfer pricing rules may adversely affect our income tax expense.. We conduct business operations in various jurisdictions and through legal entities in Canada, the United States, throughout Europe and elsewhere. We and certain of our subsidiaries provide solutions and services to, and undertake certain significant transactions with, other subsidiaries in different jurisdictions. The tax laws of many of these jurisdictions have detailed transfer pricing rules which require that all transactions with non-resident related parties be priced using arm's length pricing principles. Contemporaneous documentation must exist to support this pricing. The taxation authorities in the jurisdictions where we carry on business could challenge our transfer pricing policies. International transfer pricing is an area of taxation that depends heavily on the underlying facts and circumstances and generally involves a significant degree of judgment. If any of these taxation authorities are successful in challenging our transfer pricing policies, our income tax expense may be adversely affected and we could also be subjected to interest and penalty charges. Any increase in our income tax expense and related interest and penalties could have a significant impact on our future earnings and future cash flows.. Credit and commercial risks and exposures could increase if the financial condition of our customers declines.. Most of our sales are on an open credit basis. We monitor individual customer payment capability in granting such open credit arrangements, seek to limit such open credit to amounts we believe the customers can pay and maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts.. Impairment of our goodwill or other assets would negatively affect our results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, our goodwill was $535.9 million and identifiable intangible assets were approximately $420.8 million, which together represent a significant portion of the assets recorded on our consolidated balance sheet. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually. If an impairment is deemed to exist, we would write-down the recorded value of goodwill to its fair value. Other intangible assets that are deemed to have finite useful lives are amortized over their useful lives but must be reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. If an impairment is deemed to exist, we would write-down the recorded value of intangible assets to their recoverable values. As a result, we may be required to record a goodwill or intangible asset impairment charge in the future, in particular if our operating results are below expectations, and these write-downs could harm our business and results of operations. Further, we cannot be assured that future inventory, investment, license, fixed asset or other asset write-downs will not happen. If future write-downs do occur, they could harm our business and results of operations. Assessing whether impairment indicators exist, performing the annual goodwill impairment test and, if required, calculating the fair value or recoverable value of assets, requires significant judgment.. Quality issues, which may be difficult to detect, may occur in our solutions.. We sell highly complex solutions that included hardware, software and services. Our solutions may contain design flaws or other quality issues that can interfere with expected performance. Although we undertake a number of quality assurance measures to reduce such risks, product quality or service performance issues may arise and, as a result, negatively affect our reputation. Furthermore, if significant warranty obligations or remediation costs arise due to reliability or quality issues, our operating results and financial position could be negatively impacted by costs associated with fixing software or hardware defects, high service and warranty expenses, high inventory obsolescence expense, delays in collecting accounts receivable or declining sales to existing and new customers.. 17. Table of Contents. Our business may suffer if our strategic alliances are not successful.. We have a number of strategic alliances and continue to pursue strategic alliances with other companies. The objectives and goals for a strategic alliance can include one or more of the following: technology exchange, product development, joint sales and marketing, or new-market creation. If a strategic alliance fails to perform as expected or if the relationship is terminated, we could experience delays in product availability or impairment of our relationships with customers, and our ability to develop new solutions in response to industry trends or changing technology may be impaired. In addition, we may face increased competition if a third party acquires one or more of our strategic alliances or if our competitors enter into additional successful strategic relationships.. Our future success depends on our existing key personnel.. Our success is dependent upon the services of key personnel throughout our organization, including the members of our senior management and software and engineering staff, as well as the expertise of our directors. Competition for highly skilled directors, management, R&D and other employees is intense in our industry and we may not be able to attract and retain highly qualified directors, management, and R&D personnel and other employees in the future. In order to improve productivity, a portion of our compensation to employees and directors is in the form of equity-based incentives such as restricted stock units and stock options, and as a consequence, a depression in the value of our common shares could make it difficult for us to motivate and retain employees and recruit additional qualified directors and personnel. All of the foregoing may negatively impact our ability to retain or attract employees, which may adversely impact our ability to implement a management succession plan as and if required and on a timely basis. We currently do not maintain corporate life insurance policies on the lives of our directors or any of our key employees. In addition, companies in our industry whose employees accept positions with competitors frequently claim that competitors have engaged in improper hiring practices. We have received these claims in the past and may receive additional claims to this effect in the future.. Business interruptions could adversely affect our operations.. Our operations and those of our suppliers, contract manufacturers and outsourced service providers are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, hurricane, flood or other natural disaster, power loss, computer viruses, cyber security breaches, computer systems failure, telecommunications failure, quarantines, national catastrophe, terrorist activities, war and other events beyond our control. In particular, as we look to continue to develop our cloud segment, interruptions or delays in service from our third-party data center hosting facilities as a result of these vulnerabilities could impair the delivery of our subscriptions, result in interruptions in our service, require us to issue credits or pay penalties and harm our business. Our disaster recovery plans may not be sufficient to address these interruptions. The coverage or limits of our business interruption insurance may not be sufficient to compensate for any losses or damages that may occur.. We rely on carriers and network service providers to provide network capacity and connectivity, the absence or disruption of which may adversely affect our cloud segment.. We purchase network capacity wholesale from carriers, which we resell to our customers in various retail offerings. If any of these carriers or network service providers experience disruptions to their operations, even if only for a limited time, cease operations, or otherwise terminate the services that we depend on, the delay in switching our technology to another carrier or network service provider, if available, and qualifying them could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. The rates we pay to our carriers and network service providers may also increase, which may reduce our profitability and increase the retail price of our service.. Any impairment of the performance of our solutions or problems in providing our network services to our customers, even if for a limited time, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. Changing laws and increasingly complex corporate governance and public disclosure requirements could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results.. Changing laws, regulations and standards, including those relating to corporate governance, social/environmental responsibility, import and export requirements, data privacy, global anticorruption and public disclosure regulations, have created additional compliance requirements for us, our contract manufacturers, our OEM partners and certain other suppliers. Our efforts to comply with these requirements have resulted in an increase in expenses and a diversion of management's time from other business activities. While we believe we are compliant with laws and regulations in jurisdictions where we do business, we must continue to monitor and assess our compliance in the future, and we must also continue to expand our compliance procedures. For example, although we implement policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with global anticorruption laws, our employees, channel partners, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. Any failures in these procedures in the future, even if prohibited by our policies, could result in time-consuming and costly activities, potential fines and penalties, and diversion of management time, all of which could hurt our business.. 18. Table of Contents. Our products and services are subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations. Compliance with current laws and regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our financial condition. However, new laws and regulations or new or different interpretations of existing laws and regulations could deny or delay our access to certain markets or require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The telecommunications industry is regulated by the Federal Communications Commission in the United States and similar government agencies in other countries and is subject to changing political, economic, and regulatory influences. Changes in telecommunications requirements, or regulatory requirements in other industries in which we operate now or in the future, in the United States or other countries could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition, including our managed services offering. Further, changes in the regulation of our activities, such as increased or decreased regulation affecting prices, could also have a material adverse effect upon our business and results of operations.. Adverse resolution of litigation or governmental investigations may harm our operating results or financial condition.. We are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of our business. We may also be the subject of governmental investigations from time to time. Litigation and governmental investigations can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings or governmental investigations are difficult to predict. An unfavorable resolution of lawsuits or governmental investigations could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition.. We are exposed to risks inherent in our defined benefit pension plans.. We operate defined benefit plans primarily in the U.K., France, Germany and Switzerland (the \"U.K Plan\", the \"France Plan\", the \"Germany Plan\" and the \"Switzerland Plan\", respectively). At December 31, 2017, the total projected benefit obligation for these plans of $417.6 million exceeded plan assets of $297.5 million resulting in a pension liability of $120.1 million.. The U.K. Plan is a partially funded defined benefit plan, which was closed to new members in 2001 and was closed to new service in November 2012. Under the France Plan, retirees generally benefit from a lump sum payment upon retirement or departure. Under the Germany Plan, retirees generally benefit from the receipt of a perpetual annuity at retirement, based on their years of service and ending salary. The Switzerland Plan is a partially funded multiple-employer pension plan. Under the Switzerland Plan, retirees generally benefit from the receipt of a perpetual annuity at retirement based on an accrued value at the date of retirement. The accrued value is related to the actual returns on contributions during the working period. As the plan is a multiple-employer plan, the consolidated financial statements include our pro-rata share of assets, projected benefit obligation and pension benefit cost. Our contributions and benefit payments for the defined benefit plans for the year ended December 31, 2017 are included in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements of Mitel in Item 8 of this Report (Consolidated Financial Statements). The contributions required to fund benefit obligations are based on actuarial valuations, which themselves are based on assumptions and estimates about the long-term operation of the plan, including mortality rates of members, the performance of financial markets and interest rates. Our funding requirements for future years may increase from current levels depending on the net liability position of our plans. In addition, if the actual experience of the plans differs from our assumptions, the net liability could increase and additional contributions may be required. Changes to pension legislation in the respective countries may also adversely affect our funding requirements. Increases in the net pension liability or increases in future cash contributions would adversely affect our cash flows and results from operations.. Our operating results may be impacted by our ability to sell leases derived from our managed services offering, or a breach of our obligations in respect of such sales.. In the event of defaults by lease customers under leases that have been sold, financial institutions that purchased the pool of such leases may require us to repurchase the remaining unpaid portion of such sold leases, subject to certain annual limitations on recourse for credit losses. The size of credit losses may impact our ability to sell future pools of leases.. Under the terms of the program agreements governing the sale of these pools of leases, we are subject to ongoing obligations in connection with the servicing of the underlying leases. If we are unable to perform these obligations or are otherwise in default under a program agreement, and are unable to cure or obtain a waiver of such default, we could be required by the purchaser to repurchase the entire unpaid portion of the leases sold to such purchaser, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flows and financial condition.. 19. Table of Contents. The risks associated with Sarbanes-Oxley regulatory compliance, particularly related to an acquisition, may have a material adverse effect on us.. We are required to document and test our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the United States Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, so that our management can certify as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and our public accounting firm can render an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Following any acquisitions, we will need to timely and effectively implement the internal controls necessary to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting. In performing our evaluation of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, management excluded the operations of ShoreTel, which was acquired on September 25, 2017. We intend to extend our Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 compliance program to include the ShoreTel business beginning in 2018. We may experience delays in implementing or be unable to implement the required internal financial reporting controls and procedures, which could result in enforcement actions, the assessment of penalties and civil suits, failure to meet reporting obligations and other material and adverse events that could have a negative effect on the market price for our common shares. In addition, if material weaknesses in our internal controls are identified or we acquire companies with a material weakness, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence.. Risks Related to our Common Shares. Our share price in the past has been volatile, and may continue to be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance, and investors may not be able to resell shares at or above the price at which they purchased the shares.. Our common shares are publicly traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market, or NASDAQ, and the Toronto Stock Exchange, or TSX. At times, the share price has been volatile. The market price of our common shares may fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control and which may be accentuated due to the relatively low average daily trading volume in our common shares. The factors include:. <U+0095>   fluctuations in the overall stock market;. <U+0095>   our quarterly operating results;. <U+0095>   the exercise of options and subsequent sales of shares by option holders, including those held by our senior management and other employees;. <U+0095>   departures of key personnel;. <U+0095>   future announcements concerning our, or our competitors', business;. <U+0095>   the failure of securities analysts to cover our company and/or changes in financial forecasts and recommendations by securities analysts;. <U+0095>   a rating downgrade or other negative action by a ratings organization;. <U+0095>   fluctuations in foreign exchange rates;. <U+0095>   actual or anticipated developments in our competitors' businesses or the competitive landscape generally;. <U+0095>   litigation involving us, our industry, or both;. <U+0095>   general market, economic and political conditions;. <U+0095>   regulatory developments; and. <U+0095>   natural disasters, terrorist attacks and acts of war.. In addition, at various times, the stock markets, including NASDAQ and TSX, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies. Stock prices of many technology companies have fluctuated in a manner unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. In the past, stockholders have initiated securities class action litigation following declines in stock prices of technology companies. Any future litigation may subject us to substantial costs, divert resources and the attention of management from our business, which could harm our business and operating results.. Some of our directors have interests that may be different than our interests.. We do business with certain companies that are related parties, such as Wesley Clover International Corporation (\"WCIC\") and its subsidiaries. WCIC is controlled by Dr. Matthews. Our directors owe fiduciary duties, including the duties of loyalty and confidentiality, to us. Our directors that serve on the boards of companies that we do business with also owe similar fiduciary duties to such other companies. The duties owed to us could conflict with the duties such directors owe to these other companies.. 20. Table of Contents. Our articles of incorporation and certain anti-trust and foreign investment legislation may reduce the likelihood of a change of control occurring.. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and Canadian and U.S. law may delay or impede a change of control transaction. Our articles of incorporation permit us to issue an unlimited number of common and preferred shares. Limitations on the ability to acquire and hold our common shares may be imposed under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act, the Competition Act (Canada) and other applicable antitrust legislation. Such legislation generally permits the relevant governmental authorities to review any acquisition of control over or of significant interest in us, and grants the authority to challenge or prevent an acquisition on the basis that it would, or would be likely to, result in a substantial prevention or lessening of competition. In addition, the Investment Canada Act subjects an \"acquisition of control\" of a \"Canadian business\" (as those terms are defined therein) by a non-Canadian to government review if prescribed financial thresholds are exceeded. A reviewable acquisition may not proceed unless the relevant Minister is satisfied that the investment is likely to be of net benefit to Canada. The foregoing could prevent or delay a change of control and may deprive our shareholders of the opportunity to sell their common shares at a control premium.. You may be unable to bring actions or enforce judgments against us or certain of our directors and officers under U.S. federal securities laws.. We are incorporated under the laws of Canada, and our principal executive offices are located in Canada. Many of our officers reside principally in Canada and a substantial portion of our assets and all or a substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Consequently, it may not be possible for you to effect service of process within the United States upon us or those persons. Furthermore, it may not be possible for you to enforce judgments obtained in U.S. courts based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or other laws of the United States against us or those persons. Shareholders should not assume that Canadian courts would (1) enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against the Company, its directors or officers predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws or the securities or \"blue sky\" laws of any state within the United Sates or (2) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against the Company, its director or officers predicated upon the US federal securities laws or any such state securities or \"blue sky\" laws."
