[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS.. Our business, results of operations and financial condition are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other documents we file with the SEC are descriptions of the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Should any of these risks materialize, our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects could be negatively impacted, which in turn could affect the trading value of our securities.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS. Our operational measures designed to increase revenue while continuing to control operating costs may not generate the improvements and efficiencies we expect and may not drive growth or returns.. We have employed a number of operational measures designed to increase revenue while continuing to pursue our strategy of reducing operating costs where available. Additionally, our hybrid sales strategy of using local sales people in addition to a centralized call center team is designed to meet customer needs and drive revenue growth but differs from our historic sales structure.  No assurance can be given that these strategies will achieve the desired goals and efficiencies in the future. The success of these strategies is dependent on a number of factors that are beyond our control.. Even if we carry out these measures in the manner we currently expect, we may not achieve the improvements or efficiencies we anticipate, or on the timetable we anticipate. There may be unforeseen productivity, revenue or other consequences resulting from our strategies that will adversely affect us or impact our strategies for asset management. Therefore, there can be no guarantee that our strategies will prove effective in achieving desired profitability, margins, or returns on capital employed. Additionally, these strategies may have adverse consequences if our cost cutting and operational changes are deemed by customers to adversely impact product quality or service levels.. We face intense competition that may lead to our inability to increase or maintain our prices, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.. The Storage Solutions and Tank & Pump Solutions industries are highly competitive and highly fragmented. Many of the markets in which we operate are served by numerous competitors, ranging from national companies like ourselves, to smaller multi-regional companies and small, independent businesses with a limited number of locations. See \"Business  -  Competition.\" Some of our principal competitors are less leveraged than we are and may have lower fixed costs and may be better able to withstand adverse market conditions within the industry. Additionally, some of our competitors currently offer products outside of our offerings or may have better brand recognition in some end customer sectors. If these competitors use their brand awareness to compete with our product offerings, customers may choose these competitors' products over ours and we could lose business. Our competitors typically compete aggressively on the basis of pricing and may continue to. 15. impact our ability to attract and retain customers or maintain the rental rates we charge. Additionally, general economic factors could negatively impact the rental rates we are able to charge. To the extent that we choose to match our competitors' declining prices, it could harm our results of operations as we would have lower margins. To the extent that we choose not to match or remain within a reasonable competitive distance from our competitors' pricing, it could also harm our results of operations, as we may lose rental volume.. We may not obtain expected synergies and cost efficiencies with our ERP system.. We implemented a new ERP system in 2016. The ERP system is designed to accurately maintain our books and records and provide information important to the operation of our business to our management team. The implementation of this ERP system required, and will continue to require, significant investment of human and financial resources. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur additional expenses as we continue to enhance and develop our ERP system. Any future disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design and implementation of our ERP system could result in potentially much higher costs than we currently anticipate and could adversely affect our ability to process orders, deliver units, send invoices and track payments, fulfill contractual obligations, file reports with the SEC in a timely manner, and/or otherwise operate our business, or otherwise impact our controls environment. Any of these consequences could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. We rely heavily on information technology in our operations, and any cyber-security issue, material failure, inadequacy, interruption or breach of security of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business.. We rely heavily on information systems across our operations. We also utilize third-party cloud providers to host certain of our applications and to store data. Our ability to effectively manage our business depends significantly on the reliability and capacity of these systems. The failure of these systems to operate effectively, could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to us, our employees, or our customers and negatively impact our results.. We believe that we have implemented appropriate measures to mitigate potential risks; however, like other companies, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions due to our own error or events beyond our control. The measures that we employ to protect our systems may not detect or prevent cyber-security breaches, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hackers, phishing attacks, and other security issues. We have, from time to time, experienced threats to our data and systems, including malware, computer virus attacks and phishing attempts.  Additionally, we may not anticipate or combat all types of future attacks until after they have been launched.  Each of these situations or data privacy breaches may cause delays in customer service, reduce efficiency in our operations, require significant expenditures to remediate the problem and could result in the theft of our intellectual property or trade secrets, and personal information, the improper use of which could negatively impact our reputation or results.. We intend to continue to launch operations into new geographic markets and/or add Tank & Pump Solutions operations in existing Storage Solutions markets, which may be costly and may not be successful.. We have in the past, and intend in the future, to expand our Storage Solutions and Tank & Pump Solutions operations into new geographic markets, primarily in North America.  This expansion could require financial resources that would not therefore be available for other aspects of our business.  In addition, this expansion could require the time and attention of management, leaving less time to focus on existing business. If we fail to manage the risks inherent in our geographic expansion, we could incur capital and operating costs without any related increase in revenue, which would harm our operating results.. We may not be able to successfully integrate past acquisitions, or complete and integrate future acquisitions, or greenfield expansions.. Any acquisition or expansion may result in additional and unexpected expenses, and the anticipated benefits of the integration of an acquisition or expansion may not be realized. In addition, we may assume certain liabilities in connection with any acquisition.  To the extent there are unrecorded liabilities, including current or future environmental-related costs, which we failed to discover during our due diligence investigations and that are not subject to indemnification or reimbursement, our future operations could be materially and adversely affected.. 16. We may not be able to successfully complete future strategic acquisitions if we cannot reach agreement on acceptable terms or for other reasons. We may have to incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisition, the issuance of which could involve the imposition of restrictive covenants or be dilutive to our existing stockholders.. In connection with potential future acquisitions, we may experience difficulty integrating personnel and operations, which could negatively affect our operating results in the following manner:. •  key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us;. •  we may experience business disruptions as a result of information technology systems conversions;. •  we may experience additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management, and financial reporting;. •  we may be held liable for environmental risks and liabilities as a result of our acquisitions or expansion, some of which we may not have discovered during our due diligence;. •  we may assume the liabilities of companies we acquire or properties we expand to in the future which could materially and adversely affect our business;. •  our ongoing core business may be disrupted or receive insufficient management attention; and. •  we may not be able to realize anticipated cost savings, synergies or other financial benefits.. We are exposed to various possible claims relating to our business and our insurance may not fully protect us.. We are exposed to various possible claims relating to our business. These possible claims include those relating to: (i) personal injury or death caused by products rented or sold by us; (ii) motor vehicle accidents involving our vehicles and our employees; (iii) employment and labor law-related claims; (iv) property damage, (v) cyber-security breaches or IT compliance issues, (vi) shareholder lawsuits, (vii) medical claims exceeding our insurance limits and (viii) commercial claims. Our insurance policies have deductibles or self-insured retentions which would require us to expend amounts prior to taking advantage of coverage limits. Currently, we believe that we have adequate insurance coverage for the protection of our assets and operations. However, our insurance may not fully protect us for certain types of claims, such as claims for punitive damages or for damages arising from intentional misconduct, which are often alleged in third party lawsuits. In addition, we may be exposed to uninsured liability for claims not covered by our current coverage or at levels in excess of our policy limits.. If we are found liable for any significant claims that are not covered by insurance, our liquidity and operating results could be materially adversely affected. It is possible that our insurance carrier may disclaim coverage for any class action and derivative lawsuits against us. It is also possible that some or all of the insurance that is currently available to us will not be available in the future on economically reasonable terms or not available at all. In addition, whether we are covered by insurance or not, certain claims may have the potential for negative publicity surrounding such claims, which may lead to lower revenues, as well as additional similar claims being filed.. If we are unable to collect on contracts with customers, our operating results could be materially adversely affected.. Some of our customers may have liquidity issues and may not be able to fulfill the terms of their rental agreements with us.  In particular, we service both the oil and gas and the retail sectors which have been under financial pressure and may lead to future business decreases, customer bankruptcies or uncollectible receivables. Historically, accounts receivable write-offs have not been material.  However, if we are unable to manage credit risk issues, or if a large number of customers have financial difficulties at the same time, our credit losses could increase above historical levels and our operating results would be adversely affected. Delinquencies and credit losses generally can be expected to increase during economic slowdowns or recessions.. Unionization by some or all of our employees could cause increases in operating costs.. None of our employees are presently covered by collective bargaining agreements.  From time to time various unions attempt to organize certain of our employees. We cannot predict the outcome of any continuing or future efforts to organize our employees, the terms of any future labor agreements, or the effect, if any, those agreements might have on our operations or financial performance.. 17. We believe that a unionized workforce would generally increase our operating costs, divert the attention of management from servicing customers and increase the risk of work stoppages, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. The supply and cost of used ISO containers fluctuates, which can affect our pricing and our ability to grow.. As needed, we purchase, remanufacture and modify used ISO containers in order to expand our rental fleet. If used ISO container prices increase substantially, these price increases could increase our expenses and reduce our earnings, particularly if we are not able (due to competitive reasons or otherwise) to raise our rental rates to absorb this increased cost. Conversely, an oversupply of used ISO containers may cause container prices to fall. In such event, competitors may then lower the rental rates on their storage units. As a result, we may need to lower our rental rates to remain competitive. These events could cause our revenues and our earnings to decline.. We depend on our suppliers for the Tank & Pump Solutions equipment we rent to customers.. Nearly all the Tank & Pump Solutions equipment we rent to customers is manufactured by a limited number of suppliers.  We do not maintain long-term contracts with any of these suppliers. If our suppliers were unable or unwilling to provide us with such equipment, our operations would be affected if we were unable to obtain the equipment necessary to operate and grow our business.  Also, should our suppliers substantially increase their prices (due to increased demand in certain products, or otherwise), we may not be able to raise our rental rates to absorb such increased cost.  These events could cause our revenues and earnings to decline.. The supply and cost of raw materials we use in remanufacturing and repairing units fluctuates and could increase our operating costs.. As needed, we remanufacture and repair units for our rental fleet and for sale. In these processes, we purchase steel, paint, glass and other raw materials from various suppliers. We cannot be sure that an adequate supply of these materials will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. The raw materials we use are subject to price fluctuations that we cannot control. Changes in the cost of raw materials can have a significant effect on our operations and earnings. Rapid increases in raw material prices are often difficult to pass through to customers, particularly to rental customers. If we are unable to pass on these higher costs, our profitability could decline. If raw material prices decline significantly, we may have to write down our raw materials inventory values. If this happens, our results of operations and financial condition could decline.. Fluctuations in fuel costs or reduced supplies of fuel could harm our business.. In connection with our business, to better serve our customers and limit our capital expenditures, we often move our fleet from branch to branch.  In addition, the majority of our customers arrange for delivery and pickup of our units through us.  Accordingly, we could be materially adversely affected by significant increases in fuel prices that result in higher costs to us for transporting equipment. It is unlikely that we would be able to promptly raise our prices to make up for increased fuel costs. A significant or prolonged price fluctuation or disruption of fuel supplies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights that are material to our business.. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part upon protection of our rights in trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property rights we own or license, including patents to our locking system for our Storage Solutions. Our use of contractual provisions, confidentiality procedures and agreements, and trademark, copyright, unfair competition, trade secret and other laws to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights may not be adequate. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and protect our proprietary information and patents, or to defend against claims by third parties that our services or our use of intellectual property infringe their intellectual property rights. Any litigation or claims brought by or against us could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. A successful claim of trademark, copyright or other intellectual property infringement against us could prevent us from providing services, which could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, a breakdown in our internal policies and procedures may lead to an unintentional disclosure of our proprietary, confidential or material non-public information, which could in turn harm our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 18. If we determine that our goodwill, intangible assets or other long-lived assets have become impaired, or if we determine that our fleet residual values are too high, we may incur significant charges to our pre-tax income.. At December 31, 2017, we had $708.9 million of goodwill, $62.0 million of unamortized intangible assets and $989.2 million of undepreciated rental fleet on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Goodwill is reviewed at least annually for impairment. All long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment when an impairment indicator is present. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of the business, adverse market conditions, stock price, and adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of the Company.. Additionally, our rental fleet is subject to residual value risk upon disposition. We include in income from operations the difference between the sales price and the depreciated value of a unit sold. Market value at the time of sale is subject to numerous factors including general economic conditions. Fleet may not sell at the prices or in the quantities we expect.  Sales of our rental fleet at prices significantly below our projections will have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flow.. For more information, see the \"Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements\" included in our financial statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. If we fail to attract and retain key management and personnel, we may be unable to implement our business plan.. One of the most important factors in our ability to profitably execute our business plan is our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified personnel, including our chief executive officer (\"CEO\") and senior operational management. Our success in retaining a CEO and attracting and retaining qualified people, particularly experienced operational and sales management, is dependent on the resources available in individual geographic areas and the impact on the labor supply due to general economic conditions, as well as our ability to provide a competitive compensation package, including the implementation of adequate drivers of retention and rewards based on performance, and work environment. The departure of any key personnel and our inability to enforce non-competition agreements could have a negative impact on our business.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDEBTEDNESS, THE ECONOMY, AND GLOBAL CAPITAL AND CREDIT MARKETS. Our business is subject to the general health of the economy, including non-residential spending and energy prices, accordingly any slowdowns or decreases in the U.S. or international economy could materially affect our revenue and operating results.. An economic slowdown in the U.S. or international economy, including non-residential construction spending and energy prices, may cause substantial volatility in the stock market and layoffs and other restrictions on spending by companies in almost every business sector which could impact our business in a variety of ways, including:. •  a reduction in consumer and business spending, which would result in a reduction in demand for our products;. •  a negative impact on rates we can charge or on the ability of our customers to timely pay their obligations to us or our vendors to timely supply services, thus reducing our cash flow; and. •  an increase in payment risk with others we do business with, including financial institutions.. Without similar changes in expenses, which may be difficult to achieve, our margins will contract if revenue falls, and ultimately may result in having a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. We operate with a high amount of debt and we may incur significant additional indebtedness.. Our operations are capital intensive, and we operate with a high amount of debt relative to our size. At December 31, 2017, we had $250.0 million in aggregate principal amount of the 2024 Notes and $634.3 million of indebtedness under the Credit Agreement. Our substantial indebtedness could have adverse consequences. For example, it could:. •  require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which could reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund future working capital, pay dividends, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;. •  make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the 2024 Notes;. •  expose us to the risk of increased interest rates, as approximately 68% of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest;. 19. •  require us to sell assets to reduce indebtedness or influence our decisions about whether to do so;. •  increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. •  limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry;. •  restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or pursuing business opportunities; and. •  limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. Failing to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Covenants in our debt instruments restrict or prohibit our ability to engage in or enter into a variety of transactions.. Our Credit Agreement requires us, under certain limited circumstances, to maintain certain financial ratios and limits our ability to make capital expenditures. These covenants and ratios could have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition or other corporate opportunities and to fund our operations. Breach of a covenant in our debt instruments could cause acceleration of a significant portion of our outstanding indebtedness. Any future debt could also contain financial and other covenants more restrictive than those imposed under the indenture governing the 2024 Notes, and the Credit Agreement.. The indenture governing the 2024 Notes contains various covenants that limit our discretion in operating our business. In particular, we are limited in our ability to merge, consolidate or transfer substantially all of our assets, issue preferred stock of subsidiaries and create liens on our assets to secure debt. In addition, if there is a default, and we do not maintain borrowing availability in excess of certain pre-determined levels, we may be unable to incur additional indebtedness, make restricted payments (including paying cash dividends on our capital stock) and redeem or repurchase our capital stock. The 2024 Notes do not contain financial maintenance covenants and the financial maintenance covenant under the Credit Agreement is not applicable unless we fall below specific borrowing availability levels.. A breach of a covenant or other provision in any debt instrument governing our current or future indebtedness could result in a default under that instrument and, due to cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions, could result in a default under our other debt instruments. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the Credit Agreement or any other debt instrument, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them, if any, to secure the indebtedness. If the lenders under our current or future indebtedness accelerate the payment of the indebtedness, we cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to repay in full our outstanding indebtedness, including the 2024 Notes.. The amount we can borrow under our Credit Agreement depends in part on the value of our rental fleet. If the value of our rental fleet declines under appraisals our lenders receive, the amount we can borrow will similarly decline. We are required to satisfy several covenants with our lenders that are affected by changes in the value of our rental fleet. We would be in breach of certain of these covenants if the value of our rental fleet drops below specified levels. If this happens, we may not be able to borrow the amounts we need to expand our business, and we may be forced to liquidate a portion of our existing fleet.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our debt, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under such indebtedness, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our obligations under our debt will depend on our financial and operating performance and that of our subsidiaries, which, in turn, will be subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to financial and business factors, many of which may be beyond our control. See the table under \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Liquidity and Capital Resources  -  Contractual Obligations\" for disclosure regarding the amount of cash required to service our debt.. We may not maintain a level of cash flow from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek to obtain additional equity capital or restructure our debt. Such alternative measures may not be successful and may not enable us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, particularly. 20. because of our anticipated high levels of debt and the debt incurrence restrictions imposed by the agreements governing our debt, as well as prevailing market conditions. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. The instruments governing our indebtedness restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from any such dispositions. We may not be able to consummate those sales, or if we do, at an opportune time, or the proceeds that we realize may not be adequate to meet debt service obligations when due.. Fluctuations between the British pound and U.S. dollar could adversely affect our results of operations.. We derived approximately 16% of our total revenues in 2017 from our operations in the U.K. The financial position and results of operations of our U.K. subsidiaries are measured using the British pound as the functional currency. As a result, we are exposed to currency fluctuations both in receiving cash from our U.K. operations and in translating our financial results back into U.S. dollars. We believe the impact on us of currency fluctuations from an operations perspective is mitigated by the fact that the majority of our expenses, capital expenditures and revenues in the U.K. are in British pounds. We do, however, have significant currency exposure as a result of translating our financial results from British pounds into U.S. dollars for purposes of financial reporting. Assets and liabilities of our U.K. subsidiaries are translated at the period-end exchange rate in effect at each balance sheet date. Our income statement accounts are translated at the average rate of exchange prevailing during each month. Translation adjustments arising from differences in exchange rates from period to period are included in accumulated other comprehensive loss in stockholders' equity.. A strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the British pound reduces the amount of income or loss we recognize on a consolidated basis from our U.K. business. We cannot predict the effects of further exchange rate fluctuations on our future operating results. We are also exposed to additional currency transaction risk when our U.S. operations incur purchase obligations in a currency other than in U.S. dollars and our U.K. operations incur purchase obligations in a currency other than in British pounds. As exchange rates vary, our results of operations and profitability may be harmed. We do not currently hedge our currency transaction or translation exposure, nor do we have any current plans to do so. The risks we face in foreign currency transactions and translation may continue to increase as we further develop and expand our U.K. operations. Furthermore, to the extent we expand our business into other countries, we anticipate we will face similar market risks related to foreign currency translation caused by exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of those countries.. Global capital and credit market conditions could have an adverse effect on our ability to access the capital and credit markets, including our revolving credit facility.. Disruptions in the global credit markets that materially impact liquidity in the debt market, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive or, in some cases, unavailable altogether, have occurred in the past and may occur again in the future. Such a disruption could result in the unavailability of certain types of debt financing, including access to revolving lines of credit. We engage in borrowing and repayment activities under our revolving credit facility on an almost daily basis and have not had any disruption in our ability to access our revolving credit facility as needed. However, future credit market conditions could increase the likelihood that one or more of our lenders may be unable to honor its commitments under our revolving credit facility, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Additionally, in the future we may need to raise additional funds to, among other things, fund our existing operations, improve or expand our operations, respond to competitive pressures, or make acquisitions. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to meet our business or strategic objectives or compete effectively. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interests, and the newly issued securities may have rights superior to those of the common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to further limitations on our operations arising out of the agreements governing such debt. If we fail to raise capital when needed, our business will be negatively affected.. RISKS RELATED TO GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS. As Department of Transportation regulations change, our operations could be negatively impacted and competition for qualified drivers could increase.. We operate in the U.S. pursuant to operating authority granted by the U.S. Department of Transportation (\"DOT\"). Our Company drivers must comply with the safety and fitness regulations of the DOT, including those relating to drug and alcohol testing and hours-of-service. Such matters as equipment weight and dimensions are also subject to government regulations. Our safety record could be ranked poorly compared to our peer firms.  A poor fleet ranking may result in the loss. 21. of customers or difficulty attracting and retaining qualified drivers which could affect our results of operations. Should additional rules be enacted in the future, compliance with such rules could result in additional costs.. We are subject to environmental regulations and could incur costs relating to environmental matters.. Federal, state, local, foreign and provincial laws and regulations regulate such issues as wastewater, storm water, air quality and the management, storage and disposal of, or exposure to, hazardous substances and hazardous and solid wastes. Several aspects of our businesses may involve risks related to environmental and health and safety liability. For example, we own, transport and rent tanks and boxes in which waste materials are placed by our customers. While we have a policy which, with certain limited exceptions, requires customers to return tanks and containers clean of any substances, they may fail to comply with these obligations.  Additionally, we provide waste hauling services, which involves environmental risks during transport.  While we endeavor to comply with all regulatory requirements, failure to be in compliance with any environmental regulatory requirements may increase our compliance or remediation costs or cause restrictions on our business, either of which could have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations.. We are also required to obtain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain of our operations. If we violate or fail to obtain or comply with these laws, regulations, or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. We could also become liable if employees or other parties are improperly exposed to hazardous materials.. Under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at, or migration to or from, our or our predecessors' past or present facilities. These laws often impose liability even if the owner, operator or lessor did not know of, or was not responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances.. Environmental laws are complex, change frequently, and have tended to become more stringent over time. The costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition.. Ongoing governmental review of hydraulic fracturing (\"fracking\") and its environmental impact could lead to changes to this activity or its substantial curtailment, which could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations.. Approximately 11% of our Tank & Pump Solutions rental revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017 is related to customers involved in the upstream exploration and production of oil and natural gas.  A portion of this revenue involves rentals to customers that use the fracking method to extract natural gas.  The Environmental Protection Agency is studying the potential adverse effects that fracking may have on the environment and public health, and has issued regulations or guidance regarding certain aspects of the process.  Other federal, state and local governments and governmental agencies have also begun to investigate and/or regulate fracking.  Additional governmental regulation could result in increased costs of compliance or the curtailment of fracking in the future, which would adversely affect our revenue and results of operations.. We have operations throughout North America and the U.K. and are subject to multiple state and local regulations as well as federal, state and local taxing authorities. Changes in applicable law, regulations or our material failure to comply with any of them, can have negative impacts on our business.  Additionally, our effective tax rates and cash payable for taxes could be adversely impacted by changes in tax laws within the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed.. Most of our customers use our storage units to store their goods on their own properties for various lengths of time. Local zoning laws and temporary planning permission regulations in certain of our markets do not allow some of our customers to keep portable storage and office units on their properties or do not permit portable storage units unless located out of sight from the street or may limit the type of product they may use or how long it can be at their locations. Local building codes may place restrictions on our office units. If local zoning laws or planning permission regulations in one or more of our markets no longer allow our units to be stored on customers' sites, our business in that market will suffer.  We are also subject to numerous and differing state and local laws governing labor. While we endeavor to comply with all requirements, failure to be in compliance with any labor requirements may result in increased costs, or affect our ability to maintain an effective workforce, either of which could have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations.. 22. Our financial results are significantly impacted by our effective tax rates which could be impacted by a number of factors, including changes in tax rules and regulations or their interpretation, including changes in the U.S. related to the treatment of accelerated depreciation expense, carry-forwards of net operating losses, and taxation of foreign income and expenses.  The enactment of future tax law changes by federal and state taxing authorities may impact the Company's future period tax provision and its deferred tax liabilities.. We face unique regulatory and political challenges presented by international markets.. In connection with our business outside the U.S., we face exposure to additional regulatory requirements, including certain trade barriers, unforeseen risks related to foreign trade, tariffs and embargos, changes in political and economic conditions, and exposure to additional and potentially adverse tax regimes. Our success in the U.K. depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks.  Our failure to manage these risks may adversely affect our growth, in the U.K. and elsewhere, and lead to increased administrative costs.. In June 2016, the U.K. held a referendum in which British citizens approved an exit from the European Union (the \"E.U.\"), which is commonly referred to as \"Brexit\". The withdrawal negotiations began in 2017, and are expected to continue until October 2018, or later. The date of the U.K.'s departure from the E.U. is set for March 29, 2019. The U.K.'s stated intention is to leave the E.U.'s Single Market and Customs Union.  Leaving the Single Market means that free movement of goods, services, people and capital between the U.K. and the E.U. will come to an end. In its place will likely be a trade agreement between the U.K. and E.U., which will provide for more restricted reciprocal access. Leaving the Customs Union means that the U.K. will have its own independent trade policy, but a trade border between the U.K. and the E.U. will arise for the first time in forty or so years, and with that comes the possibility of tariffs and the certainty of customs clearance requirements. The U.K. is preparing for Brexit by passing a raft of new legislation to: replace and to an extent replicate all E.U. law; to install new customs rules and procedures; to establish an independent trade policy; and to establish a new immigration policy.. Two main sources of business uncertainty have arisen as a consequence of Brexit: the regulatory gap between March 29, 2019 and the entry into force of a new U.K.- E.U. trade agreement; and the type of market access that will be provided under the new trade agreement. The U.K. and E.U. are answering the first by trying to agree on transitional provisions to be put in place for a period of two years or so after Brexit. A deal on this is expected in March 2018. The answer to the second will not be known for many months, if not years, as the trade negotiations are not set to begin in earnest until after the U.K. leaves the E.U.. Given the scale of legislative and regulatory change, and the fact that the Brexit negotiations are ongoing, it is uncertain at this stage what financial, trade and legal implications the withdrawal of the U.K. from the E.U. would have, and how such withdrawal would affect us. U.K. legislation governing the mobile storage sector which is derived from E.U. law will be repealed and replaced. It is expected that the U.K. will not diverge from E.U. rules in the early years after Brexit, but this has still to be confirmed. E.U. law also governs health and safety, environment, employment, and immigration law, all of which are relevant to the operation of our business in the U.K. Any changes in these rules could affect us, as could changes in cross-border trade between the U.K. and E.U.. In a broader context, Brexit has caused significant volatility in global stock markets and currency exchange rate fluctuations that resulted in the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies in which we conduct business. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies may adversely affect our operating results. Brexit may also create global economic uncertainty, which may cause our customers to closely monitor their costs and reduce their spending budgets. Any of these effects of Brexit, among others, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and may continue to be volatile and the value of your investment may decline.. Volatility may cause wide fluctuations in the price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. The market price of our common stock is likely to be affected by:. •  changes in general conditions in the economy, geopolitical events or the financial markets;. •  variations in our quarterly operating results;. 23. •  changes in financial estimates by securities analysts;. •  our ability to maintain our dividend;. •  other developments affecting us, our industry, customers or competitors;. •  changes in demand for our products or the prices we charge due to changes in economic conditions, competition or other factors;. •  general economic conditions in the markets where we operate;. •  the cyclical nature of our customers' businesses, particularly those operating in the construction sectors;. •  the market perception that we are exposed to oil and gas production more than we currently are, and the related stock market volatility around oil and gas production companies;. •  rental rate changes in response to competitive factors;. •  bankruptcy or insolvency of our customers, thereby reducing demand for our used units;. •  seasonal rental patterns;. •  acquisitions or divestitures and related costs;. •  labor shortages, work stoppages or other labor difficulties;. •  possible unrecorded liabilities of acquired companies;. •  possible write-offs or exceptional charges due to changes in applicable accounting standards, goodwill impairment, or divestiture or impairment of assets;. •  the operating and stock price performance of companies that investors deem comparable to us; and. •  the number of shares available for resale in the public markets under applicable securities laws."
