[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS.. In the ordinary course of our business, we face various market, operational, strategic, and financial risks.  These risks could have an impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.  Our most significant risks are set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Our Enterprise Risk Management (\"ERM\") process seeks to identify and address significant risks.  We believe that risk-taking is an inherent aspect of operating a global business and, in particular, one focused on growth and cost-competitiveness.  Our goal is to proactively manage risks in a structured approach in conjunction with strategic planning, with the intent to preserve and enhance shareowner value.  However, the risks set forth below and elsewhere in this report, as well as other risks currently unknown or deemed immaterial at the date of this report, could adversely affect us and cause our financial results to vary materially from recent or anticipated future results.. A.  MARKET RISKS. Customer and Supplier Matters. Our vehicular customers continually seek price reductions from us.  These price reductions adversely affect our results of operations.. We face continuous price-reduction pressure from our vehicular customers.  Virtually all of these OEMs impose aggressive price-reduction initiatives upon their suppliers, even if contrary to contractual terms, and we expect such actions to continue in the future.  In response, we must continually reduce our operating costs in order to maintain profit margins that are acceptable to us.  We have taken, and will continue to take, steps to reduce our operating costs to offset customer price reductions; however, price reductions adversely affect our profit margins and are expected to do so in the future.  If we are unable to avoid price reductions for our customers, or if we are unable to offset price reductions through improved operating efficiencies and manufacturing processes, sourcing alternatives, technology enhancements and other cost reduction initiatives, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our net sales and profitability could be adversely affected from business losses or declines with major customers.. Deterioration of a business relationship with a major customer could cause our sales and profitability to suffer.  Generally speaking, this risk is highest in our vehicular business segments, where a large portion of sales are attributable to a relatively small number of customers.  We principally compete for new vehicular business both during the initial development of new models and upon the redesign of existing models by our major customers.  New model development generally begins two to five years prior to marketing such models to the public.  The failure to obtain new business on new models or to retain or increase business on redesigned existing models could adversely affect our business and financial results.  In addition, as a result of the relatively long lead times required for many of our complex vehicular components, it may be difficult in the short term for us to obtain new sales to replace any unexpected decline in sales of existing products.  We may incur significant expense in preparing to meet anticipated customer requirements that may not be recovered.  The loss of a major customer, the loss of business with respect to one or more of the vehicle models that use our vehicular products, or a significant decline in the production levels of such vehicles could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our CIS segment includes significant sales generated from a single global technology customer (9 percent of CIS segment sales) with which we are party to confidentiality agreements.  Sales to this customer have historically fluctuated significantly from one quarter or fiscal year to the next.  While we expect to be able to manage troughs and take advantage of peaks, to the extent we are unable to predict and mitigate lower sales levels or respond in a timely fashion to higher sales levels, the results of operations for the CIS segment could be adversely affected.. We are dependent upon the health of the customers and markets we serve.. We are highly susceptible to unfavorable trends in the markets we serve as our customers' sales and production levels are affected by general economic conditions, including access to credit, the price of fuel and electricity, employment levels and trends, interest rates, labor relations issues, regulatory requirements, trade agreements and other market factors, as well as by customer-specific issues.  Any significant decline in production levels for current and future customers could result in asset impairment charges and a reduction in our sales, thereby adversely impacting our results of operations and financial condition.. 11. Table of Contents. Fluctuations in costs of materials (including aluminum, copper, steel and stainless steel (nickel), other raw materials and energy) could place significant pressure on our results of operations.. Increases in the costs of materials, which may be impacted by a variety of factors, including changes in trade laws and tariffs, could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations.  We have sought to alleviate this risk by including material pass-through provisions in our customer contracts when possible.  Under these arrangements, we adjust customer prices, on a prospective basis, based upon increases and decreases in the cost of key raw materials.  However, where these pass-through arrangements are utilized, there can often be a three-month to one-year lag between the time of the material increase or decrease and the time of the price adjustment.  To further mitigate our exposure, we, from time to time, enter into forward contracts to hedge a portion of our forecasted aluminum and copper purchases.  However, these hedges may only partially offset increases in material costs, and significant increases could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. We could be adversely affected if we experience shortages of components or materials from our suppliers.. In an effort to manage and reduce our cost of purchased goods and services, we, like many suppliers and customers, have been consolidating our supply base.  As a result, we are dependent upon limited sources of supply for certain components used in the manufacture of our products.  We select our suppliers based upon total value (including price, delivery and quality), taking into consideration their production capacities, financial condition and ability to meet our demand.  In some cases, it can take several months or longer to find a supplier due to qualification requirements.  However, strong demand, the potential effects of trade laws and tariffs, capacity limitations, financial instability, or other problems experienced by our suppliers could result in shortages or delays in their supply of product to us.  If we were to experience a significant or prolonged shortage of critical components or materials from any of our suppliers and could not procure the components or materials from other sources, we would be unable to meet our production schedules and we would miss product delivery dates, which would adversely affect our sales, results of operations and customer relationships.. Continual customer pressure to absorb costs adversely affects our profitability.. Customers often request that we pay for design, engineering and tooling costs that are incurred prior to the start of production and recover these costs through amortization in the piece price of the product.  Some of these costs cannot be capitalized, which adversely affects our profitability until the programs for which they have been incurred are launched.  If a given program is not launched, or is launched with significantly lower volumes than planned, we may not be able to recover the design, engineering and tooling costs from our customers, further adversely affecting our results of operations.. Competitive Environment. We face strong competition.. The competitive environment continues to be dynamic as many of our customers, faced with intense international competition, have expanded their sourcing of components.  As a result, we experience competition from suppliers in other parts of the world that enjoy economic advantages, such as lower labor costs, lower health care costs, lower tax rates, lower costs associated with legal compliance, and, in some cases, export or raw materials subsidies.  In addition, consolidation and vertical integration within the supply base have introduced new or restructured competitors to our markets.  Increased competition could adversely affect our business and our results of operations.. 12. Table of Contents. Exposure to Foreign Currencies. As a global company, we are subject to foreign currency rate fluctuations, which affect our financial results.. Although our financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, a significant portion of our sales and operating costs are realized in foreign currencies, including the euro, British pound, Brazilian real and others.  Our sales and profitability are affected by movements of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies in which we generate sales and incur expenses.  To the extent that we are unable to match sales in foreign currencies with costs paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations in any such currency could have an adverse effect on our financial results.  During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported sales and earnings from our international operations will be lower because the applicable local currency will be translated into fewer U.S. dollars.  In certain instances, currency rate fluctuations may create pricing pressure relative to competitors quoting in different currencies, which could result in our products becoming less competitive.  Significant long-term fluctuations in relative currency values, in particular a significant change in the relative values of the U.S. dollar, euro, British pound or Brazilian real, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. B.  OPERATIONAL RISKS. Challenges of Maintaining a Competitive Cost Structure. We may be unable to maintain competitive cost structures within our business.. As a result of the \"Strengthen\" objective of our SDG transformational strategy, we have transitioned to a more global, product-based organization.  We have engaged in restructuring activities in our Americas, Europe, CIS and BHVAC segments in order to optimize our manufacturing footprint and cost structure.  These restructuring activities included the consolidation and/or closure of manufacturing facilities in North America and Europe, as well as targeted headcount reductions that support our objective of reducing operational and SG&A cost structures.  In addition, we continue to focus on reducing costs for materials and services through targeted adjustments and negotiations with our supply base.  Our successful execution of these initiatives, and our ability to identify and execute future opportunities to optimize our cost structures, is critical to enable us to establish a cost environment that will increase and sustain our long-term competitiveness.  Any failure to do so could, in turn, adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Challenges of Product Launches. We continue to launch a significant number of new programs at our facilities across the world.  The success of these launches is critical to our business.. We design technologically advanced products, and the processes required to produce these products can be difficult and complex.  We commit significant time and financial resources to ensure the successful launch of new products and programs.  Due to our high level of launch activity in each of our segments, we must appropriately manage these launches and deploy our operational and administrative resources to take advantage of this increase in our business.  If we do not successfully launch the products and programs, we may lose market share or damage relationships with our customers, which could negatively affect our business.  In addition, any failure in our manufacturing strategy for these new products or programs could result in production inefficiencies or asset impairment charges.. Complexities of Global Presence. We are subject to risks related to our international operations.. We have manufacturing and technical facilities located in North America, South America, Europe, Asia, and Africa.  In fiscal 2018, 57 percent of our sales were from non-U.S. operations.  Consequently, our global operations are subject to complex international laws and regulations and numerous risks and uncertainties, including changes in monetary and fiscal policies, including those related to tax and trade, cross-border trade restrictions or prohibitions, import or other charges or taxes, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and interest rates, changing economic conditions, unreliable intellectual property protection and legal systems, insufficient infrastructures, social unrest, political instability and disputes, incompatible business practices, and international terrorism.  Changes in policies or laws governing the terms of foreign trade, and in particular increased trade restrictions, tariffs or taxes on imports from countries where we manufacture products, such as Mexico, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  In addition, compliance with multiple and often conflicting laws and regulations of various countries is burdensome and expensive.. Embargoes or sanctions imposed by the U.S. government or those abroad that restrict or prohibit sales to or purchases from specific persons or countries or based upon product classification may expose us to potential criminal and civil sanctions.  We cannot predict future regulatory requirements to which our business operations may be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted.. 13. Table of Contents. In addition, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and other similar anti-corruption laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making payments to improperly influence foreign government officials or other persons for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business.  In recent years, there has been a substantial increase in the global enforcement of anti-corruption laws.  In the event that we believe our employees or agents may have violated applicable anti-corruption laws, or if we are subject to allegations of any such violations, we may have to expend significant time and financial resources towards the investigation and remediation of the matter, which could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and reputation.. Reliance upon Technology Advantage. If we cannot differentiate ourselves from our competitors with our technology, our existing and potential customers may seek lower prices and our sales and earnings may be adversely affected.. Price, quality, delivery, technological innovation, and application engineering development are the primary elements of competition in our markets.  If we fail to keep pace with technological changes and cannot differentiate ourselves from our competitors with our technology or fail to provide high quality, innovative products and services that both meet or exceed customer expectations and address their ever-evolving needs, we may experience price erosion, lower sales, and lower profit margins.  Significant technological developments by our competitors or others also could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Developments or assertions by or against us relating to intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business.. We own significant intellectual property, including a large number of patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets.  Our intellectual property plays an important role in maintaining our competitive position in a number of the markets we serve.  As we expand our operations in jurisdictions where the enforcement of intellectual property rights is less robust, the risk of others duplicating our proprietary technologies increases, despite our efforts to protect them.  Developments or assertions by or against us relating to intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Information Technology Systems. We may be adversely affected by any disruption in, or breach of, our information technology systems.. Our operations are dependent upon our information technology systems, which encompass all of our major business functions.  A substantial disruption in our information technology systems for a prolonged time period, or a significant breach of our information security, could result in delays in receiving inventory and supplies or filling customer orders, and/or the release of otherwise confidential information, adversely affecting our customer service and relationships as well as our reputation, and could lead to significant remediation expenses and litigation risks.  Our systems, and the systems of our service providers or others, could be breached, damaged or interrupted by cyber attacks or other man-made intentional or unintentional events, or by natural disasters or occurrences, many of which may, despite our best efforts, be beyond our ability to effectively detect, anticipate or control.  Any such events and the related delays, problems or costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation.. 14. Table of Contents. Claims and Litigation. We may incur material losses and costs as a result of warranty and product liability claims and litigation or other legal proceedings.. In the event our products fail to perform as expected, we are exposed to warranty and product liability claims and may be required to participate in a recall or other field campaign of such products.  Many of our vehicular customers offer extended warranty protection for their vehicles and put pressure on their supply base to extend warranty coverage as well.  If our customers demand higher warranty-related cost recoveries, or if our products fail to perform as expected, it could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.  We are also involved in various legal proceedings from time to time incidental to our business.  If any such proceeding has a negative result, it could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Environmental, Health and Safety Regulations. We could be adversely impacted by the costs of environmental, health and safety regulations.. Our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing, among other things, emissions to air, discharge to waters and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste and other materials.  The operation of our manufacturing facilities entails risks in these areas and there can be no assurance we will avoid material costs or liabilities relating to such matters.  Our financial responsibility to clean up contaminated property may extend to previously-owned or used property, properties owned by unrelated companies, as well as properties we currently own and use, regardless of whether the contamination is attributable to prior owners.  In addition, potentially significant expenditures could be required in order to comply with evolving environmental, health and safety laws, regulations or other requirements that may be adopted or imposed in the future.. C.  STRATEGIC RISKS. Growth Strategies. Inability to identify and execute on inorganic- and organic-growth opportunities may adversely impact our business and operating results.. We expect to continue to pursue acquisitions in \"industrial\" markets and expand our market share in high-growth engine and powertrain cooling areas through focused research and development activities and commercial pursuits.  There can be no assurance we will be able to identify attractive acquisition targets and/or organic growth opportunities.  If we are unable to successfully complete such transactions in the future, our growth may be limited.  In addition, future acquisitions will require integration of operations, sales and marketing, information technology, finance, and administrative functions.  If we are unable to successfully integrate acquisitions and operate these businesses profitably, we may not achieve the financial or operational success expected from the acquisitions.. D.  FINANCIAL RISKS. Liquidity and Access to Cash. Our indebtedness may limit our use of cash flow to support operating, development and investment activities, and failure to comply with our debt covenants could adversely affect our liquidity and financial results.. As of March 31, 2018, we had total outstanding indebtedness of $479 million.  Our indebtedness and related debt service obligations i) require that significant cash flow from operations be used for principal and interest payments, which reduces the funds we have available for other business purposes; ii) limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions; and iii) expose us to interest rate risk, since the majority of our debt obligations carry variable interest rates.  If we are unable to maintain our leverage ratio (net debt divided by Adjusted EBITDA, as defined in our credit agreements) within our target range of 1.5 to 2.5, or if we are unable to move cash globally to enable debt repayments in a tax-efficient manner, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Market trends and regulatory requirements may require additional funding for our pension plans.. We have several defined benefit pension plans in the U.S., all of which are frozen to new participants.  Our funding policy for these plans is to contribute annually, at a minimum, the amount necessary on an actuarial basis to provide for benefits in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.  Our domestic plans have an unfunded liability of $73 million.  During fiscal 2019, we anticipate making funding contributions totaling $6 million related to these domestic plans.  Funding requirements for our defined benefit plans are dependent upon, among other things, interest rates, underlying asset returns, mortality rate tables, and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes.  Should changes in actuarial assumptions or other factors result in the requirement of significant additional funding contributions, our financial condition could be adversely affected.. 15. Table of Contents. Goodwill and Intangible Assets. Our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets.  An impairment of a significant portion of these assets would adversely affect our financial results.. Our balance sheet includes goodwill and intangible assets totaling $304 million at March 31, 2018.  We perform goodwill impairment tests annually, as of March 31, or more frequently if appropriate.  In addition, we review intangible assets for impairment whenever business conditions or other events indicate that the assets may be impaired.  If we determine the carrying value of an asset is impaired, we write down the asset to fair value and record an impairment charge to current operations.  An impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. Income Taxes. We may be subject to additional income tax expense or become subject to additional tax exposure.. Unfavorable changes in the financial outlook of our operations in certain jurisdictions could lead to adverse changes in our valuation allowance assertions for our deferred tax assets.  Additionally, the subjectivity of or changes in tax laws and regulations in jurisdictions where we have significant operations could materially affect our results of operations.  On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\").  The Tax Act includes broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code, including, but not limited to (i) a reduction in the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent effective January 1, 2018, and (ii) a transition tax on certain unrepatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries.  In addition, we are subject to tax audits in each jurisdiction in which we operate.  Unfavorable or unexpected outcomes from one or more tax audits could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition."
