[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business. Our future growth will depend on, among other things, our ability to successfully identify, recruit and develop talent and will require us to commit additional resources.. We have experienced rapid growth over the past several years, which may be difficult to sustain at the same rate. Our future growth will depend on, among other things, our ability to successfully identify and recruit individuals and teams to join our firm. It typically takes time for these professionals to become profitable and effective. During that. 14. Table of Contents. time, we may incur significant expenses and expend significant time and resources toward training, integration and business development aimed at developing this new talent. If we are unable to recruit and develop profitable professionals, we will not be able to implement our growth strategy and our financial results could be materially adversely affected.. In addition, sustaining growth will require us to commit additional management, operational and financial resources and to maintain appropriate operational and financial systems to adequately support expansion, especially in instances where we open new offices that may require additional resources before they become profitable. See \" - Our growth strategy may involve opening or acquiring new offices and expanding internationally and would involve hiring new Managing Directors and other senior professionals for these offices, which would require substantial investment by us and could materially and adversely affect our operating results.\" There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our expanding operations effectively, and any failure to do so could materially adversely affect our ability to grow revenue and control our expenses.. Changing market conditions can adversely affect our business in many ways, including by reducing the volume of the transactions involving our business, which could materially reduce our revenue.. As a financial services firm, we are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions throughout the world. For example, our revenue is directly related to the volume and value of the transactions in which we are involved. During periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the volume and value of M&A transactions may decrease, thereby reducing the demand for our M&A advisory services and increasing price competition among financial services companies seeking such engagements. In addition, during periods of strong market and economic conditions, the volume and value of recapitalization and restructuring transactions may decrease, thereby reducing the demand for our recapitalization and restructuring advisory services and increasing price competition among financial services companies seeking such engagements. Our results of operations would be adversely affected by any such reduction in the volume or value of such advisory transactions. Further, in the period following an economic downturn, the volume and value of M&A transactions typically takes time to recover and lags a recovery in market and economic conditions.. Our profitability may also be adversely affected by our fixed costs and the possibility that we would be unable to scale back other costs within a time frame sufficient to match any decreases in revenue relating to changes in market and economic conditions. The future market and economic climate may deteriorate because of many factors beyond our control, including rising interest rates or inflation, terrorism or political uncertainty.. Our revenue in any given period is dependent on the number of fee - paying clients in such period, and a significant reduction in the number of fee - paying clients in any given period could reduce our revenue and adversely affect our operating results in such period.. Our revenue in any given period is dependent on the number of fee - paying clients in such period. We had 175 clients and 167 clients paying fees equal to or greater than $1 million in 2017 and 2016, respectively. We may lose clients as a result of the sale or merger of a client, a change in a client's senior management, competition from other financial advisors and financial institutions and other causes. A significant reduction in the number of fee - paying clients in any given period could reduce our revenue and adversely affect our operating results in such period.. Our ability to retain our Managing Directors and our other professionals, including our executive officers, is critical to the success of our business.. Our future success depends to a substantial degree on our ability to retain qualified professionals within our organization, including our Managing Directors. However, we may not be successful in our efforts to retain the required personnel as the market for qualified investment bankers is extremely competitive. Our investment bankers possess substantial experience and expertise and have strong relationships with our advisory clients. As a result, the loss of these professionals could jeopardize our relationships with clients and result in the loss of client engagements. For example, if any of our Managing Directors or other senior professionals, including our executive officers, or groups of professionals, were to join or form a competing firm, some of our current clients could choose to use the services of that competitor rather than our services. There is no guarantee that our compensation and non - competition arrangements with our Managing Directors provide sufficient incentives or protections to prevent our Managing Directors from resigning to join our competitors. In addition, some of our competitors have more resources than us which may allow them to attract. 15. Table of Contents. some of our existing employees through compensation or otherwise. The departure of a number of Managing Directors or groups of professionals could have a material adverse effect on our business and our profitability.. We depend on the efforts and reputations of Mr. Moelis and our other executive officers. Our senior leadership team's reputations and relationships with clients and potential clients are critical elements in the success of our business. The loss of the services of our senior leadership team, in particular Mr. Moelis, could have a material adverse effect on our business, including our ability to attract clients.. Substantially all of our revenue is derived from advisory fees. As a result, our revenue and profits are highly volatile on a quarterly basis and may cause the price of our Class A common stock to fluctuate and decline.. Our revenue and profits are highly volatile. We derive substantially all of our revenue from advisory fees, generally from a limited number of engagements that generate significant fees at key transaction milestones, such as closing, the timing of which is outside of our control. We expect that we will continue to rely on advisory fees for most of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, a decline in our advisory engagements or the market for advisory services would adversely affect our business. In addition, our financial results will likely fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on the timing of when fees are earned, and high levels of revenue in one quarter will not necessarily be predictive of continued high levels of revenue in future periods. Because we lack other, more stable, sources of revenue, which could moderate some of the volatility in our advisory revenue, we may experience greater variations in our revenue and profits than other larger, more diversified competitors in the financial services industry. Fluctuations in our quarterly financial results could, in turn, lead to large adverse movements in the price of our Class A common stock or increased volatility in our stock price generally.. Because in many cases we are not paid until the successful consummation of the underlying transaction, our revenue is highly dependent on market conditions and the decisions and actions of our clients, interested third parties and governmental authorities. For example, we may be engaged by a client in connection with a sale or divestiture, but the transaction may not occur or be consummated because, among other things, anticipated bidders may not materialize, no bidder is prepared to pay our client's price or because our client's business experiences unexpected operating or financial problems. We may be engaged by a client in connection with an acquisition, but the transaction may not occur or be consummated for a number of reasons, including because our client may not be the winning bidder, failure to agree upon final terms with the counterparty, failure to obtain necessary regulatory consents or board or stockholder approvals, failure to secure necessary financing, adverse market conditions or because the target's business experiences unexpected operating or financial problems. In these circumstances, we often do not receive significant advisory fees, despite the fact that we have devoted considerable resources to these transactions.. In addition, we face the risk that certain clients may not have the financial resources to pay our agreed - upon advisory fees. Certain clients may also be unwilling to pay our advisory fees in whole or in part, in which case we may have to incur significant costs to bring legal action to enforce our engagement agreement to obtain our advisory fees.. Our joint ventures, strategic investments and acquisitions may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our business.. In addition to recruiting and internal expansion, we may grow our core business through joint ventures, strategic investments or acquisitions.. In the case of joint ventures and strategic investments, such as Moelis Australia, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties relating to governance and controls, in that we may be dependent upon personnel, controls and systems, including management of the business by third parties, and subject to, liability, losses or reputational damage relating to such personnel, controls and systems and the management decisions of third parties that are not under our control. Moelis Australia is a public company listed on the Australian Securities Exchange and the value of the shares held by us at any given time are subject to fluctuation as a result of their performance and prevailing market and business conditions. These fluctuations in value may be material.. In the event we make further strategic investments or acquisitions, we would face numerous risks and would be presented with financial, managerial and operational challenges, including the difficulty of integrating personnel, financial, accounting, technology and other systems and management controls.. 16. Table of Contents. If the number of debt defaults, bankruptcies or other factors affecting demand for our recapitalization and restructuring advisory services declines, our recapitalization and restructuring business could suffer.. We provide various financial recapitalization and restructuring and related advice to companies in financial distress or to their creditors or other stakeholders. A number of factors affect demand for these advisory services, including general economic conditions, the availability and cost of debt and equity financing, governmental policy and changes to laws, rules and regulations, including those that protect creditors. In addition, providing recapitalization and restructuring advisory services entails the risk that the transaction will be unsuccessful or take considerable time and can be subject to a bankruptcy court's authority to disallow or discount our fees in certain circumstances. If the number of debt defaults, bankruptcies or other factors affecting demand for our recapitalization and restructuring advisory services declines, our recapitalization and restructuring business would be adversely affected.. Our failure to deal appropriately with actual, potential or perceived conflicts of interest could damage our reputation and materially adversely affect our business.. We confront actual, potential or perceived conflicts of interest in our business. For instance, we face the possibility of an actual, potential or perceived conflict of interest where we represent a client on a transaction in which an existing client is a party. We may be asked by two potential clients to act on their behalf on the same transaction, including two clients as potential buyers in the same acquisition transaction, and we may act for both clients if both clients agree to us doing so. In each of these situations, we face the risk that our current policies, controls and procedures do not timely identify or appropriately manage such conflicts of interest.. It is possible that actual, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to client dissatisfaction, litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. Appropriately identifying and managing actual or perceived conflicts of interest is complex and difficult, and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with one or more potential or actual conflicts of interest. Regulatory scrutiny of, or litigation in connection with, conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our reputation which could materially adversely affect our business in a number of ways, including a reluctance of some potential clients and counterparties to do business with us.. Employee misconduct, which is difficult to detect and deter, could harm us by impairing our ability to attract and retain clients and by subjecting us to legal liability and reputational harm.. There have been a number of highly-publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry, and there is a risk that our employees could engage in misconduct that would adversely affect our business. For example, our business often requires that we deal with confidential matters of great significance to our clients. If our employees were to improperly use or disclose confidential information provided by our clients, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and suffer serious harm to our reputation, financial position, current client relationships and ability to attract future clients. In addition, our financial professionals and other employees are responsible for following proper measures to maintain the confidentiality of information we hold. If an employee's failure to do so results in the improper release of confidential information, we could be subject to reputational harm and legal liability, which could impair our ability to attract and retain clients and in turn materially adversely affect our business. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent misconduct may not be effective in all cases. If our employees engage in misconduct, our business could be materially adversely affected.. We may face damage to our professional reputation if our services are not regarded as satisfactory or for other reasons.. As an advisory service firm, we depend to a large extent on our relationships with our clients and reputation for integrity and high - caliber professional services to attract and retain clients. As a result, if a client is not satisfied with our services, it may be more damaging in our business than in other businesses.. 17. Table of Contents. We face strong competition from other financial advisory firms, many of which have the ability to offer clients a wider range of products and services than those we can offer, which could cause us to fail to win advisory mandates and subject us to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability.. The financial services industry is intensely competitive, and we expect it to remain so. Our competitors are other investment banking and financial advisory firms. We compete on both a global and a regional basis, and on the basis of a number of factors, including depth of client relationships, industry knowledge, transaction execution skills, our range of products and services, innovation, reputation and price. In addition, in our business there are usually no long - term contracted sources of revenue. Each revenue - generating engagement typically is separately solicited, awarded and negotiated.. We have experienced intense competition over obtaining advisory mandates in recent years, and we may experience further pricing pressures in our business in the future as some of our competitors may seek to obtain increased market share by reducing fees.. Our primary competitors are large financial institutions, many of which have far greater financial and other resources than us and, unlike us, have the ability to offer a wider range of products, from loans, deposit taking and insurance to brokerage and trading, which may enhance their competitive position. They also regularly support investment banking, including financial advisory services, with commercial lending and other financial services and products in an effort to gain market share, which puts us at a competitive disadvantage and could result in pricing pressures or loss of opportunities, which could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. In addition, we may be at a competitive disadvantage with regard to certain of our competitors who are able to and often do, provide financing or market making services that are often a crucial component of the types of transactions on which we advise.. In addition to our larger competitors, over the last few years a number of independent investment banks that offer independent advisory services have emerged, with several showing rapid growth. As these independent firms or new entrants into the market seek to gain market share there could be pricing pressures, which would adversely affect our revenues and earnings.. As a member of the financial services industry, we face substantial litigation risks.. Our role as advisor to our clients on important transactions involves complex analysis and the exercise of professional judgment, including rendering \"fairness opinions\" in connection with mergers and other transactions. Our activities may subject us to the risk of significant legal liabilities to our clients and affected third parties, including shareholders of our clients who could bring securities class actions against us. In recent years, the volume of claims and amount of damages claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial services companies have been increasing, including claims for aiding and abetting client misconduct. Moreover, judicial scrutiny and criticism of investment banker performance and activities has increased, creating risk that our services in a litigated transaction could be criticized by the court. These risks often may be difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. Our engagements typically include broad indemnities from our clients and provisions to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services, but these provisions may not protect us in all cases, including when a client does not have the financial capacity to pay under the indemnity. As a result, we may incur significant legal expenses in defending against or settling litigation. In addition, we may have to spend a significant amount to adequately insure against these potential claims. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us or significant criticism by a court of our performance or activities could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business prospects.. Extensive and evolving regulation of our business and the business of our clients exposes us to the potential for significant penalties and fines due to compliance failures, increases our costs and may result in limitations on the manner in which our business is conducted.. As a participant in the financial services industry, we are subject to extensive regulation in the U.S. and internationally. We are subject to regulation by governmental and self - regulatory organizations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. As a result of market volatility and disruption in recent years, the U.S. and other governments have taken unprecedented steps to try to stabilize the financial system including providing assistance to financial institutions and taking certain regulatory actions. The full extent of the effects of these actions and of legislative and regulatory initiatives (including the Dodd - Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act) effected in connection with,. 18. Table of Contents. and as a result of, such extraordinary disruption and volatility is uncertain, both as to the financial markets and participants in general, and as to us in particular.. Our ability to conduct business and our operating results, including compliance costs, may be adversely affected as a result of any new requirements imposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission (\"SEC\"), FINRA or other U.S. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self - regulatory organizations that regulate financial services firms or supervise financial markets. We may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self - regulatory organizations. In addition, some of our clients or prospective clients may adopt policies that exceed regulatory requirements and impose additional restrictions affecting their dealings with us. Accordingly, we may incur significant costs to comply with U.S. and international regulation. In addition, new laws or regulations or changes in enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our clients may adversely affect our business. For example, changes in antitrust enforcement could affect the level of M&A activity and changes in applicable regulations could restrict the activities of our clients and their need for the types of advisory services that we provide to them.. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could result in adverse publicity and reputational harm as well as fines, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of the registration of us or any of our subsidiaries as a financial advisor and could impair executive retention or recruitment. In addition, any changes in the regulatory framework could impose additional expenses or capital requirements on us, result in limitations on the manner in which our business is conducted, have an adverse impact upon our financial condition and business and require substantial attention by senior management. In addition, our business is subject to periodic examination by various regulatory authorities, and we cannot predict the outcome of any such examinations.. Our business is subject to various cybersecurity and other operational risks.. We face various cybersecurity and other operational risks related to our business on a day - to - day basis. We rely heavily on financial, accounting, communication and other information technology systems, and the people who operate them. These systems, including the systems of third parties on whom we rely, may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of tampering or a breach of our network security systems or otherwise, including for reasons beyond our control.. Our clients typically provide us with sensitive and confidential information. We are dependent on information technology networks and systems to securely process, transmit and store such information and to communicate among our locations around the world and with our clients, alliance partners and vendors. We may be subject to attempted security breaches and cyber - attacks and a successful breach could lead to shutdowns or disruptions of our systems or third - party systems on which we rely and potential unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential information. Breaches of our or third - party network security systems on which we rely could involve attacks that are intended to obtain unauthorized access to our proprietary information, destroy data or disable, degrade or sabotage our systems, often through the introduction of computer viruses, cyber - attacks and other means and could originate from a wide variety of sources, including unknown third parties outside the firm. If our or third - party systems on which we rely are compromised, do not operate properly or are disabled, we could suffer a disruption of our business, financial losses, liability to clients, regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation. In addition, our financial professionals and other employees are responsible for following proper measures to maintain the confidentiality of information we hold. If an employee's failure to do so results in the improper release of confidential information, we could be subject to reputational harm and legal liability, which could impair our ability to attract and retain clients and in turn materially adversely affect our business.. We operate a business that is highly dependent on information systems and technology. Any failure to keep accurate books and records can render us liable to disciplinary action by governmental and self - regulatory authorities, as well as to claims by our clients. We rely on third - party service providers for certain aspects of our business. Any interruption or deterioration in the performance of these third parties or failures of their information systems and technology could impair our operations, affect our reputation and adversely affect our business.. In addition, a disaster or other business continuity problem, such as a pandemic, other man - made or natural disaster or disruption involving electronic communications or other services used by us or third parties with whom we conduct business, could lead us to experience operational challenges, and our inability to timely and successfully recover. 19. Table of Contents. could materially disrupt our business and cause material financial loss, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability.. Negative publicity regarding our business and our people could adversely impact our reputation and our business.. We depend to a large extent on our reputation for integrity and high - caliber professional services to attract and retain clients. We may experience negative publicity from time to time relating to our business and our people, regardless of whether the allegations are valid. Such negative publicity may adversely affect our business in a number of ways, including whether potential clients choose to engage us and our ability to attract and retain talent.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash in the future to service any future indebtedness.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance any future debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance. We cannot provide assurance that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal of, and interest on, any future indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund any future debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance such indebtedness.. Our international operations are subject to certain risks, which may affect our revenue.. In 2017, we earned approximately 22% of our revenues from our international operations. We intend to grow our non - U.S. business, and this growth is important to our overall success. In addition, many of our larger clients are non - U.S. entities seeking to enter into transactions involving U.S. businesses. Our international operations carry special financial and business risks, which could include the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgreater difficulties in managing and staffing foreign operations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlanguage and cultural differences;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that could adversely affect our results;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tunexpected changes in trading policies, regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlonger transaction cycles;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\thigher operating costs;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadverse consequences or restrictions on the repatriation of earnings;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpotentially adverse tax consequences, such as trapped foreign losses;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tless stable political and economic environments; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcivil disturbances or other catastrophic events that reduce business activity.. If our international business increases relative to our total business, these factors could have a more pronounced effect on our operating results.. Our growth strategy may involve opening or acquiring new offices and expanding internationally and would involve hiring new Managing Directors and other senior professionals for these offices, which would require substantial investment by us and could materially and adversely affect our operating results.. Our ability to grow our advisory business organically depends in part on our ability to open or acquire new offices, expand internationally and hire new Managing Directors and other senior professionals for these offices. We may not be successful in any efforts to open new offices, expand internationally or hire new Managing Directors and other senior professionals for these offices. The costs of opening a new office, expanding internationally and hiring the. 20. Table of Contents. necessary personnel to staff the office are substantial. If we are not successful in these efforts, we may not be able to recover our investments or our substantial cost outlays, and new international operations may not achieve profitability.. We may enter into new lines of business which may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our business.. We currently generate substantially all of our revenue from advisory transactions. However, we may grow our business by entering into new lines of business. To the extent we enter into new lines of business, we will face numerous risks and uncertainties, including risks associated with actual or perceived conflicts of interest because we would no longer be limited to the advisory business, the possibility that we have insufficient expertise to engage in such activities profitably or without incurring inappropriate amounts of risk, the required investment of capital and other resources and the loss of clients due to the perception that we are no longer focusing on our core business.. Entry into certain lines of business may subject us to new laws and regulations with which we are not familiar, or from which we are currently exempt, and may lead to increased litigation and regulatory risk. In addition, certain aspects of our cost structure, such as costs for compensation, occupancy and equipment rentals, communication and information technology services, and depreciation and amortization will be largely fixed, and we may not be able to timely adjust these costs to match fluctuations in revenue related to our entering into new lines of business. If a new business generates insufficient revenues or if we are unable to efficiently manage our expanded operations, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results.. Because our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars and we receive a portion of our net revenue in other currencies (including euros and pound sterling), we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currencies. In addition, we pay certain of our expenses in such currencies. We have not entered into any transactions to hedge our exposure to these foreign exchange fluctuations through the use of derivative instruments or otherwise. An appreciation or depreciation of any of these currencies relative to the U.S. dollar would result in an adverse or beneficial impact, respectively, to our financial results.. The cost of compliance with international broker - dealer, employment, labor, benefits and tax regulations may adversely affect our business and hamper our ability to expand internationally.. Since we operate our business both in the U.S. and internationally, we are subject to many distinct broker - dealer, employment, labor, benefits and tax laws in each country in which we operate, including regulations affecting our employment practices and our relations with our employees and service providers. If we are required to comply with new regulations or new interpretations of existing regulations, or if we are unable to comply with these regulations or interpretations, our business could be adversely affected or the cost of compliance may make it difficult to expand into new international markets. Additionally, our competitiveness in international markets may be adversely affected by regulations requiring, among other things, the awarding of contracts to local contractors, the employment of local citizens and/or the purchase of services from local businesses or favoring or requiring local ownership.. Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure. Moelis & Company's only assets are its partnership interests in Group LP, its equity interest in the sole general partner of Group LP, Moelis & Company Group GP LLC, and its interests in its subsidiaries, and Moelis & Company is accordingly dependent upon distributions from Group LP to pay dividends, taxes and other expenses.. Moelis & Company is a holding company, and its only assets are its partnership interests in Group LP, its equity interest in the sole general partner of Group LP, Moelis & Company Group GP LLC, and its interests in its subsidiaries. Moelis & Company has no independent means of generating revenue. Moelis & Company intends to cause Group LP to make distributions to its partners in an amount sufficient to cover all applicable taxes payable, other expenses and dividends, if any, declared by us.. Group LP is generally prohibited under Delaware law from making a distribution to a partner to the extent that, at the time of the distribution, after giving effect to the distribution, liabilities of Group LP (with certain exceptions) exceed the fair value of its assets. Furthermore, certain subsidiaries of Group LP may be subject to similar legal. 21. Table of Contents. limitations on their ability to make distributions to Group LP. Moreover, our regulated subsidiaries may be subject to regulatory capital requirements that limit the distributions that may be made by those subsidiaries.. Deterioration in the financial condition, earnings or cash flow of Group LP and its subsidiaries for any reason could limit or impair their ability to pay such distributions. Additionally, to the extent that Moelis & Company requires funds and Group LP is restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation or under the terms of financing arrangements, or is otherwise unable to provide such funds, our liquidity and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. A change in relevant income tax laws, regulations, or treaties, or an adverse interpretation of these items by tax authorities, could result in an audit adjustment or revaluation of our deferred tax assets that may cause our effective tax rate and tax liability to be higher than what is currently presented in the consolidated statements of financial condition.. As part of the process of preparing our consolidated statements of financial condition, we are required to estimate income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. Significant management judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and any valuation allowance recorded against our deferred tax assets. This process requires us to estimate our actual current tax liability and to assess temporary differences resulting from differing book versus tax treatment. Our effective tax rate and tax liability is based on the application of current income tax laws, regulations, and treaties. These laws, regulations, and treaties are complex, and the manner in which they apply to our facts and circumstance is sometimes open to interpretation. We believe our application of current laws, regulations, and treaties to be correct and sustainable upon examination by the tax authorities. However, the tax authorities could challenge our interpretation resulting in additional tax liability or adjustment to our income tax provision that could increase our effective tax rate. In addition, tax laws, regulations, or treaties enacted in the future may cause us to revalue our net deferred tax assets and have a material change to our effective tax rate.. We will be required to pay our Managing Directors for certain tax benefits we may claim as a result of the tax basis step - up we receive in connection with follow-on offerings and related transactions. In certain circumstances, payments under the tax receivable agreement may be accelerated and/or significantly exceed the actual tax benefits we realize.. Group LP Class A partnership units may be exchanged for shares of Class A common stock. On the date of our initial public offering in April 2014, we were treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as having directly purchased Class A partnership units in Group LP from the then existing unitholders which resulted in an increase in the tax basis of the assets of Group LP that otherwise would not have been available. The exchange and purchases of Class A partnership units in Group LP in connection with the initial public offering and additional follow-on offerings, may also result in increases in the tax basis of the assets of Group LP that otherwise would not have been available. Such increases in tax basis are likely to increase (for tax purposes) depreciation and amortization deductions and therefore reduce the amount of income tax we would otherwise be required to pay in the future. These increases in tax basis may also decrease gain (or increase loss) on future dispositions of certain capital assets to the extent the increased tax basis is allocated to those capital assets. The Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") may challenge all or part of these tax basis increases, and a court could sustain such a challenge.. We have entered into a tax receivable agreement with our Managing Directors that provides for the payment by us to our Managing Directors of 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax or franchise tax that we actually realize as a result of (a) the increases in tax basis attributable to our Managing Directors and (b) tax benefits related to imputed interest deemed to be paid by us as a result of this tax receivable agreement. While the actual increase in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under the tax receivable agreement, will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the timing of exchanges, the price of shares of our Class A common stock at the time of the exchange, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable, and the amount and timing of our income, we expect that, as a result of the size of the increases in the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of Group LP attributable to our interests in Group LP, during the expected term of the tax receivable agreement, the payments that we may make to our Managing Directors could be substantial.. Although we are not aware of any issue that would cause the IRS to challenge a tax basis increase, our Managing Directors generally will not reimburse us for any payments that may previously have been made under the tax. 22. Table of Contents. receivable agreement. As a result, in certain circumstances we could make payments to the Managing Directors under the tax receivable agreement in excess of our cash tax savings. Our ability to achieve benefits from any tax basis increase, and the payments to be made under the tax receivable agreement, will depend upon a number of factors, as discussed above, including the timing and amount of our future income.. In addition, the tax receivable agreement provides that, upon a merger, asset sale or other form of business combination or certain other changes of control or if, at any time, we elect an early termination of the tax receivable agreement, our (or our successor's) obligations with respect to exchanged or acquired Class A partnership units (whether exchanged or acquired before or after such change of control or early termination) would be based on certain assumptions, including that we would have sufficient taxable income to fully utilize the deductions arising from the increased tax deductions and tax basis and other benefits related to entering into the tax receivable agreement, and, in the case of certain early termination elections, that any Class A partnership units that have not been exchanged will be deemed exchanged for the market value of the Class A common stock at the time of termination. Consequently, it is possible, in these circumstances also, that the actual cash tax savings realized by us may be significantly less than the corresponding tax receivable agreement payments.. If Moelis & Company were deemed an \"investment company\" under the Investment Company Act of 1940 as a result of its ownership of Group LP, applicable restrictions could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and could materially and adversely affect our operating results.. If Moelis & Company were to cease participation in the management of Group LP, its interests in Group LP could be deemed an \"investment security\" for purposes of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the \"1940 Act\"). Generally, a person is deemed to be an \"investment company\" if it owns investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items), absent an applicable exemption. Moelis & Company has no assets other than its partnership interests in Group LP and its equity interest in the sole general partner of Group LP, Moelis & Company Group GP LLC and its interests in its subsidiaries. A determination that this interest in Group LP was an investment security could result in Moelis & Company being an investment company under the 1940 Act and becoming subject to the registration and other requirements of the 1940 Act. We intend to conduct our operations so that we will not be deemed an investment company. However, if we were to be deemed an investment company, restrictions imposed by the 1940 Act, including limitations on our capital structure and our ability to transact with affiliates, could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results and the price of our Class A common stock.. We and Old Holdings have entered into various arrangements, including a master separation agreement, which contains cross - indemnification obligations of us and Old Holdings.. The master separation agreement that we entered into with Old Holdings provides, among other things, that Old Holdings generally will indemnify us for losses that we incur arising out of, or relating to, the businesses conducted by Old Holdings and losses that we incur arising out of, or relating to, Old Holdings' breach of the master separation agreement. In addition, we generally will indemnify Old Holdings for losses that Old Holdings incurs arising out of, or relating to, our business and losses Old Holdings' incurs arising out of, or relating to, our breach of the master separation agreement. We may not be able to recover any or all of the amount of indemnified losses from Old Holdings should it be financially unable to perform under its indemnification obligations. In addition, we may be required to make substantial payments under our indemnity obligations to Old Holdings, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations.. The use of the \"Moelis\" brand name by either Old Holdings and its subsidiaries or Moelis Australia may expose us to reputational harm that could adversely affect our business should they take actions that damage the brand name.. Old Holdings and Moelis Australia operate as separate legal entities. We have licensed to Old Holdings and its subsidiaries the use of the \"Moelis\" brand name for certain purposes, including in connection with asset management activities. We have licensed to Moelis Australia the use of the \"Moelis\" brand name in connection with its financial advisory services business, an equity capital markets and research, sales and trading business covering Australian public equity securities and asset management businesses. As Old Holdings and its subsidiaries and Moelis Australia historically have and will continue to use the \"Moelis\" brand name, and because we no longer control these entities, there is a risk of reputational harm to us if any of Old Holdings, its subsidiaries or Moelis Australia, among other things, have engaged, or in the future were to engage in poor business practices, or were to experience adverse results or. 23. Table of Contents. otherwise damage the reputational value of the \"Moelis\" brand name. These risks could adversely affect our revenue and our business prospects.. Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock. Control by Mr. Moelis of the voting power in Moelis & Company may give rise to actual or perceived conflicts of interests.. Moelis & Company is controlled by Mr. Moelis, through his control of Partner Holdings. Mr. Moelis' interests may differ from those of other stockholders. As of December 31, 2017, Mr. Moelis controls approximately 86% of the voting interest in Moelis & Company primarily through his control of Partner Holdings, which currently holds all outstanding Class B common stock. The shares of Class B common stock entitle Partner Holdings to (i) for so long as the Class B Condition is satisfied, ten votes per share and (ii) after the Class B Condition ceases to be satisfied, one vote per share. In addition, Moelis & Company has entered into a stockholders agreement with Partner Holdings, pursuant to which, for so long as the Class B Condition is satisfied, Partner Holdings has certain approval rights over certain transactions. As a result, because Mr. Moelis has a majority of the voting power in Moelis & Company and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for cumulative voting, he has the ability to elect all of the members of our board of directors and thereby to control our management and affairs, including determinations with respect to acquisitions, dispositions, borrowings, issuances of Class A common stock or other securities, and the declaration and payment of dividends. Mr. Moelis is able to determine the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval and is able to cause or prevent a change of control of Moelis & Company or a change in the composition of our board of directors and could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of Moelis & Company. Mr. Moelis' voting control could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their Class A common stock as part of a sale of Moelis & Company and might ultimately affect the market price of our Class A common stock. As a result of the control exercised by Mr. Moelis over us, our agreements entered into with him prior to or in connection with our initial public offering may not have been negotiated on \"arm's length\" terms. We cannot assure you that we would not have received more favorable terms from an unaffiliated party.. We are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the rules of the New York Stock Exchange and, as a result, qualify for, and intend to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. You do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements.. Mr. Moelis, through his control of Partner Holdings, holds more than 50% of the voting power of our shares eligible to vote. As a result, we are a \"controlled company\" under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange (\"NYSE\"). Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power in the election of directors is held by an individual, group or another company is a \"controlled company\" and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that (i) a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors and (ii) that the board of directors have compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees composed entirely of independent directors.. For at least some period, we intend to utilize these exemptions. As a result, we do not have a majority of independent directors on our board of directors. Accordingly, although we may transition to a board with a majority of independent directors prior to the time we cease to be a \"controlled company,\" for such period of time you will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements set by the NYSE. In the event that we cease to be a \"controlled company\" and our shares continue to be listed on the NYSE, we will be required to comply with these provisions within the applicable transition periods. These exemptions do not modify the independence requirements for our audit committee, and we intend to comply with the applicable requirements of the SEC and the NYSE with respect to our audit committee within the applicable time frame.. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes - Oxley Act of 2002 could have a material adverse effect on our business and share price.. As a publicly traded company, we are required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404(a) of Sarbanes - Oxley, which requires, beginning with the filing of our second annual report with the SEC, annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able or willing to issue an unqualified report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Matters impacting our internal controls may cause us to. 24. Table of Contents. be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis and thereby subject us to adverse regulatory consequences, including sanctions by the SEC, or violations of applicable stock exchange listing rules. There could also be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements. Confidence in the reliability of our financial statements is also likely to suffer if our independent registered public accounting firm reports a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. This could materially adversely affect us and lead to a decline in the market price of our shares.. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade our Company or our sector, the price of our Class A common stock could decline.. The trading market for our Class A common stock depends in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control these analysts. Furthermore, if one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgrades our Company or our industry, or the stock of any of our competitors, the price of our Class A common stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our Company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause the price of our Class A common stock to decline.. Our share price may decline due to the large number of shares eligible for future sale and for exchange.. The market price of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of Class A common stock in the market as a result of and after the offering contemplated by our Registration Statement on Form S - 3 Registration No. 333 - 203499 or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. As of February 14, 2018, we had outstanding 33,525,277 shares of Class A common stock, most of which may be resold immediately in the public market. In addition, holders of a significant amounts of Group LP Class A partnership units may elect to exchange their units and they may receive shares of our Class A common stock. Further, restrictions on sales of certain shares of Class A common stock by certain of our pre - IPO equityholders expired on April 22, 2015, and such shares are now eligible for resale from time to time, and employees who have received shares of Class A common stock upon settlement of restricted stock units are currently able to sell such shares, subject to any blackout periods we impose on employees and restrictions under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the \"Securities Act\"). On April 30, 2015, we entered into an agreement with Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation (\"SMBC\"), our strategic alliance partner, to permit SMBC, subject to the terms of the Group LP limited partnership agreement, to exchange half of its Group LP Class A partnership units (1,280,054 units) into Moelis & Company Class A common stock on or after July 1, 2015 and the remaining 50% (1,280,053 units) on or after April 22, 2016. Existing Group LP Class A partnership unitholders (including certain Managing Directors) owned, as of February 14, 2018, an aggregate of 22,472,337 Class A partnership units. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation allows the exchange of Class A partnership units in Group LP (other than those held by us) for shares of our Class A common stock on a one - for - one basis, subject to customary conversion rate adjustments for stock splits, stock dividends and reclassifications. Further, Partner Holdings held 19,912,230 shares of our Class B common stock, which will be convertible into 11,016 shares of our Class A common stock. Shares of Class A common stock (including those issuable upon exchange of Group LP partnership units) that are held by the Group LP Class A partnership unitholders (including our Managing Directors) will be eligible for resale from time to time, subject to certain contractual restrictions and to restrictions under the Securities Act.. The general partner of Group LP (\"General Partner\") has determined that certain holders of Group LP Class A partnership units will be eligible to exchange on a one - for - one basis for our Class A common stock in May 2018, subject to the General Partner's discretion to postpone or cancel the redemption date. The number of units eligible for exchange on such date is up to 2,629,923 units, 2,560,107 of which are Group LP partnership units held by SMBC. Holders who elect to exchange may choose to sell or hold the Class A common stock. Units eligible for exchange exclude 19,842,414 units held by Managing Directors that they received as Managing Directors which units remain subject to lock - up provisions in three installments (which were equal installments at the time of our initial public offering) through each of the fourth, fifth and sixth anniversary of our initial public offering. In connection with the follow-on offerings of Class A common stock in January and July of 2017, the number of Group LP Class A partnership units subject to lock-up decreased and is currently 19,842,414 units. Approximately 1%, 40% and 59% of the outstanding Group LP Class A partnership units held by our managing directors will become transferable on the fourth, fifth and sixth anniversary of our initial public offering, respectively. The General Partner intends to establish redemption dates from time to time in the ordinary course in accordance with the terms of the Group LP limited partnership agreement and the Company does not intend to disclose future redemption dates.. 25. Table of Contents. Certain Class A partnership unitholders in Group LP and holders of our Class A common stock are parties to agreements with us pursuant to which we have granted them registration rights. Under those agreements, these persons will have the ability to cause us to register the shares of our Class A common stock (including the shares they could acquire upon exchange of Class A partnership units in Group LP), subject to certain contractual restrictions. See \"Exchanges of Group LP Class A Partnership Units For Moelis & Company Class A Common Stock.\". The market price of our Class A common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline.. Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our Class A common stock in spite of our operating performance. In addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and in response, the market price of our Class A common stock could decrease significantly. You may be unable to resell your shares of our Class A common stock at or above the public offering price.. While we currently intend to pay a quarterly cash dividend to our stockholders, we may change our dividend policy at any time. There can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends.. On February 6, 2018, the Board of Directors of Moelis & Company declared a special dividend of $1.50 per share in addition to a regular quarterly dividend of $0.47 per share. The $1.97 per share will be paid on March 7, 2018 to Class A common stockholders of record on February 20, 2018. Although we currently intend to pay a quarterly cash dividend to our stockholders, we have no obligation to do so, and our dividend policy may change at any time. Returns on stockholders' investments will primarily depend on the appreciation, if any, in the price of our Class A common stock. Whether we continue and the amount and timing of any dividends are subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all respective laws and agreements of the Company applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends. Future dividends, including their timing and amount, may be affected by, among other factors: general economic and business conditions; our financial condition and operating results; our available cash and current anticipated cash needs; capital requirements; contractual, legal, tax and regulatory restrictions and implications on the payment of dividends by us to our stockholders; and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant. Our dividend payments may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends in any particular amounts or at all. The reduction in or elimination of our dividend payments could have a negative effect on our stock price.. Anti - takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable by permitting our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock, requiring advance notice for stockholder proposals and nominations and placing limitations on convening stockholder meetings. In addition, there is no cumulative voting in the election of directors, and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that directors may be removed, with or without cause, only with the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the voting interest of stockholders entitled to vote; provided, however, that for so long as the Class B Condition is satisfied, directors may be removed, with or without cause, with the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting interest of stockholders entitled to vote. In addition, we are subject to provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law that restrict certain business combinations with interested stockholders. These provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. See \"Description of Capital Stock.\""                                                                                                              
