[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. We have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also significantly impair our business operations. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and all information contained in this report before you decide to purchase our common stock. If any of the possible adverse events described below actually occurs, we may be unable to conduct our business as currently planned and our financial condition and operating results could be harmed. In addition, the trading price of our common stock could decline due to the occurrence of any of the events described below, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing these risks, you should refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes.. 33. Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock. The market price of our common stock is expected to be volatile, and the market price of the common stock may drop.. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations.  Market prices for securities of early-stage pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other life sciences companies have historically been particularly volatile.  Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include:. •  our ability to obtain regulatory approvals for MT-3724 or other product candidates, and delays or failures to obtain such approvals;. •  failure of any of our product candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success;. •  failure to maintain our existing third-party license and supply agreements;. •  failure by us or our licensors to prosecute, maintain, or enforce our intellectual property rights;. •  changes in laws or regulations applicable to our product candidates;. •  any inability to obtain adequate supply of our product candidates or the inability to do so at acceptable prices;. •  adverse regulatory authority decisions;. •  introduction of new products, services or technologies by our competitors;. •  failure to meet or exceed financial and development projections we may provide to the public;. •  failure to meet or exceed the financial and development projections of the investment community;. •  the perception of the pharmaceutical industry by the public, legislatures, regulators and the investment community;. •  announcements of significant acquisitions, strategic collaborations, joint ventures or capital commitments by us or our competitors;. •  disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters, and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies;. •  additions or departures of key personnel;. •  significant lawsuits, including patent or stockholder litigation;. •  if securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they issue any adverse or misleading opinions regarding our business and stock;. •  changes in the market valuations of similar companies;. •  general market or macroeconomic conditions;. •  sales of our common stock by us or our stockholders in the future;. •  trading volume of our common stock;. •  announcements by commercial partners or competitors of new commercial products, clinical progress or the lack thereof, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments;. •  adverse publicity relating to ETB therapeutics generally, including with respect to other products and potential products in such markets;. •  the introduction of technological innovations or new therapies that compete with our potential products;. •  changes in the structure of health care payment systems; and. •  period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results.. 34. Moreover, the stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies.  These broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies.  Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation.. Additionally, a decrease in our stock price may cause our common stock to no longer satisfy the continued listing standards of The Nasdaq Capital Market.  If we are not able to maintain the requirements for listing on The Nasdaq Capital Market, we could be delisted, which could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to raise additional funds as well as the price and liquidity of our common stock.. Future sales of shares by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline.. If our existing stockholders sell, or indicate an intention to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline.  The perception in the market that these sales may occur could also cause the trading price of our common stock to decline.  As of March 21, 2018, we had outstanding a total of approximately 27,058,244 shares of common stock.. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage another company from acquiring us and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management.. Provisions of Delaware law, where we are incorporated, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our board of directors. These provisions include:. •  authorizing the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock without any need for action by stockholders;. •  providing for a classified board of directors with staggered terms;. •  requiring supermajority stockholder voting to effect certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws;. •  eliminating the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders;. •  prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; and. •  establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings.. Claims for indemnification by our directors and officers may reduce our available funds to satisfy successful third-party claims against us and may reduce the amount of money available to us.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws provide that we will indemnify our directors and officers, in each case to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law.. In addition, as permitted by Section 145 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or the DGCL, our amended and restated bylaws and our indemnification agreements that we have entered into with our directors and officers provide that:. •  We will indemnify our directors and officers for serving us in those capacities or for serving other business enterprises at our request, to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law. Delaware law provides that a corporation may indemnify such person if such person acted in good faith and in a. 35. manner such person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the registrant and, with respect to any criminal proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe such person's conduct was unlawful.. •  We may, in our discretion, indemnify employees and agents in those circumstances where indemnification is permitted by applicable law.. •  We are required to advance expenses, as incurred, to our directors and officers in connection with defending a proceeding, except that such directors or officers shall undertake to repay such advances if it is ultimately determined that such person is not entitled to indemnification.. •  The rights conferred in our amended and restated bylaws are not exclusive, and we are authorized to enter into indemnification agreements with our directors, officers, employees and agents and to obtain insurance to indemnify such persons.. •  We may not retroactively amend our amended and restated bylaw provisions to reduce our indemnification obligations to directors, officers, employees and agents.. We have never paid dividends on our common stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be our stockholders' sole source of gain for the foreseeable future.. We incur costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies.. We incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that Private Molecular did not incur as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements.  We also incur costs associated with corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as new implemented by the SEC and Nasdaq.  These rules and regulations are expected to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time consuming and costly.  For example, our management team includes certain executive officers of Private Molecular prior to the Merger, some of whom have not previously managed and operated a public company.  These executive officers and other personnel will need to devote substantial time to gaining expertise regarding operations as a public company and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.  These rules and regulations also may make it difficult and expensive for us to obtain directors' and officers' liability insurance.  As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers, which may adversely affect investor confidence in us and could cause our business or stock price to suffer.. Our bylaws provide that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees.. Our bylaws provide that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the sole and exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, any action asserting a breach of fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders, any action asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to any provisions of the DGCL, our certificate of incorporation or our bylaws, or any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine.  The choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and other employees.  If a court were to find the choice of forum provision contained in the bylaws to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions.. 36. An active trading market for our common stock may not develop.. Prior to the Merger, there had been no public market for Private Molecular common stock.  An active trading market for our shares of common stock may not be sustained.  If an active market for our common stock is not sustained, it could put downward pressure on the market price of our common stock and thereby affect the ability of stockholders to sell their shares.. Our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders have the ability to control or significantly influence all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval.. As of December 31, 2017, our principal stockholders beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 70.0% of our outstanding shares of common stock.  As a result, if these stockholders were to choose to act together, they would be able to control or significantly influence all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, as well as our management and affairs.  For example, these persons, if they choose to act together, would control or significantly influence the election of directors and approval of any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets.  Within this group, Santé Health Ventures I, L.P. and its affiliates own approximately 32.6% of our shares, and Longitude Venture Partners III, L.P. and its affiliates and Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc. own approximately 15.3% and 10.9%, respectively.  This concentration of voting power could delay or prevent an acquisition of us on terms that other stockholders may desire.. If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports, or publish unfavorable research or reports, about us, our business or our market, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business.  Equity research analysts may elect not to provide research coverage of our common stock, and such lack of research coverage may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.  In the event we do have equity research analyst coverage, we will not have any control over the analysts or the content and opinions included in their reports.  The price of our common stock could decline if one or more equity research analysts downgrade our stock or issue other unfavorable commentary or research.  If one or more equity research analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our common stock could decrease, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. We have broad discretion in the use of our cash reserves and may not use them effectively.. We have broad discretion over the use of our cash reserves, including the proceeds from our previous financings.  You may not agree with our decisions, and our use of these funds may not improve our results of operations or enhance the value of our common stock.  Our failure to apply these funds effectively could compromise our ability to pursue our growth strategy, result in financial losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, cause the price of our common stock to decline and delay the development of our product candidates. Pending their use, we may invest our cash reserves in a manner that does not produce income or that loses value.. Having availed ourselves of scaled disclosure available to smaller reporting companies, we cannot be certain if such reduced disclosure will make our common stock less attractive to investors.. Under Section 12b-2 of the Exchange Act, a \"smaller reporting company\" is a company that is not an investment company, an asset backed issuer, or a majority-owned subsidiary of a parent company that is not a smaller reporting company, and has a public float of less than $75 million and annual revenues of less than $50 million during the most recently completed fiscal year. Smaller reporting companies are permitted to provide simplified executive compensation disclosure in their filings; they are exempt from the provisions of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requiring that independent registered public accounting firms provide an attestation report on the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting; and they have certain other decreased disclosure obligations in their SEC filings, including, among other things, only being required to provide two years of audited financial statements in annual reports. Being a smaller reporting company, we are permitted to avail ourselves of the scaled disclosure requirements available to smaller reporting companies in this Annual Report on. 37. Form 10-K. Decreased disclosure in our SEC filings as a result of our having availed ourselves of scaled disclosure may make it harder for investors to analyze our results of operations and financial prospects.. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition and Capital Requirements. We have incurred losses since inception, have a limited operating history on which to assess our business, and anticipate that we will continue to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future.. We are a clinical development-stage biopharmaceutical company with a limited operating history.  We have incurred net losses in each year since 2009, including net losses attributable to common shareholders of $24.1 million for year ended December 31, 2017.  As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $64.5 million.. As of December 31, 2017, we had cash and cash equivalents of $58.9 million In August 2017, we raised approximately $60 million though private placements of our common stock and warrants to purchase our common stock. We will continue to require substantial additional capital to continue our clinical development and potential commercialization activities.  Accordingly, we will need to raise substantial additional capital to continue to fund our operations.  The amount and timing of our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including the pace and results of our clinical development efforts.  Failure to raise capital as and when needed, on favorable terms or at all, would have a negative impact on our financial condition and our ability to develop our product candidates.. We have devoted substantially all of our financial resources to identify, acquire, and develop our product candidates, including conducting clinical trials and providing general and administrative support for our operations.  To date, we have financed our operations primarily through the sale of equity securities and convertible promissory notes.  The amount of our future net losses will depend, in part, on the rate of our future expenditures and our ability to obtain funding through equity or debt financings, strategic collaborations or grants.  Biopharmaceutical product development is a highly speculative undertaking and involves a substantial degree of risk.  We expect losses to increase as we complete Phase I development and advance into Phase II development of our lead product candidates.  We have not yet commenced pivotal clinical trials for any product candidate and it may be several years, if ever, before we complete pivotal clinical trials and have a product candidate approved for commercialization.  We expect to invest significant funds into the research and development of our current product candidates to determine the potential to advance these product candidates to regulatory approval.. If we obtain regulatory approval to market one or more products, our future revenue will depend upon the size of any markets in which our product candidates may receive approval, and our ability to achieve sufficient market acceptance, pricing, reimbursement from third-party payors and adequate market share for our product candidates in those markets.  Even if we obtain adequate market share for one or more products, because the potential markets in which our product candidates may ultimately receive regulatory approval could be very small, we may never become profitable despite obtaining such market share and acceptance of our products.. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses and increasing operating losses for the foreseeable future and our expenses will increase substantially if and as we:. •  continue the clinical development of our product candidates;. •  continue efforts to discover new product candidates;. •  undertake the manufacturing of our product candidates or increases volumes manufactured by third parties;. •  advance our programs into larger, more expensive clinical trials;. •  initiate additional preclinical, clinical, or other trials or studies for our product candidates;. •  seek regulatory and marketing approvals and reimbursement for our product candidates;. •  establish a sales, marketing, and distribution infrastructure to commercialize any products for which we may obtain marketing approval and market for ourselves;. 38. •  seek to identify, assess, acquire, and/or develop other product candidates;. •  make milestone, royalty or other payments under third-party license agreements;. •  seek to maintain, protect, and expand our intellectual property portfolio;. •  seek to attract and retain skilled personnel; and. •  experience any delays or encounter issues with the development and potential for regulatory approval of our clinical candidates such as safety issues, clinical trial accrual delays, longer follow-up for planned studies, additional major studies or supportive studies necessary to support marketing approval.. Further, the net losses we incur may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year, such that a period-to-period comparison of our results of operations may not be a good indication of our future performance.. Our ability to use our net operating losses to offset future taxable income, if any, may be subject to certain limitations.. In general, under Section 382 of the Code, a corporation that undergoes an \"ownership change\" (generally defined as a greater than 50-percentage-point cumulative change (by value) in the equity ownership of certain stockholders over a rolling three-year period) is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating losses, or NOLs, to offset future taxable income. If we undergo additional ownership changes (some of which changes may be outside our control), our ability to utilize our NOLs could be further limited by Section 382 of the Code. The Merger resulted in an ownership change under Section 382 of the Code for us, and our pre-Merger net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes will be subject to limitation or elimination. The net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes of ours may also be subject to limitations as a result of ownership changes. Our NOLs may also be impaired under state law. Accordingly, we may not be able to utilize a material portion of our NOLs. Furthermore, our ability to utilize our NOLs is conditioned upon our attaining profitability and generating U.S. federal taxable income. Other than for 2015, we have incurred net losses since our inception, and we anticipate that we will continue to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future; thus, we do not know whether or when we will generate the U.S. federal taxable income necessary to utilize our NOLs.. We have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting.  If one or more material weaknesses persist or if we fail to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, our ability to accurately report our financial results could be adversely affected.. Prior to the Merger, Private Molecular had limited accounting and financial reporting personnel and other resources with which to address its internal control over financial reporting.  In connection with the audits of our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2016 and preparation of interim financial statements for the first quarter of 2017, we and our independent registered public accounting firm identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting.  A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the entity's financial statements will not be prevented, or detected and corrected on a timely basis.. Prior to the completion of the Merger, Private Molecular was a private company and had limited accounting and financial reporting personnel and other resources with which to address its internal controls and procedures. Private Molecular's lack of adequate accounting personnel resulted in the identification of a material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting, which has continued through December 31, 2017. Specifically, Private Molecular did not timely and appropriately account for and disclose the impact of complex, non-routine transactions in accordance with GAAP.  We have begun our remediation plan, and have hired and intend to hire additional accounting and finance personnel. Additionally, we are in the process of implementation of more robust review, supervision and monitoring of the non-routine transactions and the financial reporting process intended to remediate the identified material weakness.  There can be no assurance that these efforts will remediate the material weakness or avoid future weaknesses or deficiencies.  Any failure to remediate the material weakness and any future weaknesses or deficiencies or any failure to implement required new or improved controls or difficulties encountered in their implementation could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements.  Following the closing of the Merger, our management has been assessing. 39. the effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting and will be required to provide an annual report on internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018.  If we are unable to remediate our material weakness, our management may not be able to conclude that its disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting are effective, which could result in investors losing confidence in our reported financial information and may lead to a decline in the stock price.  Failure to comply with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority or other regulatory authorities, as well as increasing the risk of liability arising from litigation based on securities law.. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have a material adverse effect on our stock price.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC require annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC. If we cannot favorably assess, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investor confidence in the reliability of our financial reports may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price.. We have never generated any revenue from product sales and may never be profitable.. We have no products approved for commercialization and have never generated any revenue.  Our ability to generate revenue and achieve profitability depends on our ability, alone or with strategic collaborators, to successfully complete the development of, and obtain the regulatory and marketing approvals necessary to commercialize one or more of our product candidates.  We do not anticipate generating revenue from product sales for the foreseeable future.  Our ability to generate future revenue from product sales depends heavily on our success in many areas, including but not limited to:. •  completing research and development of one or more of our product candidates;. •  obtaining regulatory and marketing approvals for one or more of our product candidates;. •  manufacturing one or more product candidates and establishing and maintaining supply and manufacturing relationships with third parties that are commercially feasible;. •  marketing, launching and commercializing one or more product candidates for which we obtain regulatory and marketing approval, either directly or with a collaborator or distributor;. •  gaining market acceptance of one or more of our product candidates as treatment options;. •  meeting our supply needs in sufficient quantities to meet market demand for our product candidates, if approved;. •  addressing any competing products;. •  protecting, maintaining and enforcing our intellectual property rights, including patents, trade secrets and know-how;. •  negotiating favorable terms in any collaboration, licensing or other arrangements into which we may enter;. •  obtaining reimbursement or pricing for one or more of our product candidates that supports profitability; and. •  attracting, hiring and retaining qualified personnel.. 40. Even if one or more of the product candidates that we develop is approved for commercial sale, we anticipate incurring significant costs associated with launching and commercializing any approved product candidate.  We also will have to develop or acquire manufacturing capabilities or continue to contract with contract manufacturers in order to continue development and potential commercialization of our product candidates.  For instance, if our costs of manufacturing our drug products are not commercially feasible, then we will need to develop or procure our drug products in a commercially feasible manner to successfully commercialize any future approved product, if any.  Additionally, if we are not able to generate revenue from the sale of any approved products, we may never become profitable.. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights.. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity, convertible debt or other securities convertible into equity, the ownership interest of our stockholders will be diluted, and the terms of these new securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect rights of our stockholders.  Debt financing, if available at all, would likely involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures, making additional product acquisitions or declaring dividends.  For instance, our loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank limits our ability to enter into an asset sale, enter into any change of control, incur additional indebtedness, pay any dividends or enter into specified transactions with our affiliates.  If we raise additional funds through strategic collaborations or licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our product candidates or future revenue streams or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us.  We cannot be assured that we will be able to obtain additional funding if and when necessary to fund our entire portfolio of product candidates to meet our projected plans.  If we are unable to obtain funding on a timely basis, we may be required to delay or discontinue one or more of our development programs or the commercialization of any product candidates or be unable to expand our operations or otherwise capitalize on potential business opportunities, which could materially harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We also have historically received funds from state and federal government grants for research and development.  The grants have been, and any future government grants and contracts we may receive may be, subject to the risks and contingencies set forth below under the section titled \" - Risks Related to the Development of Our Product Candidates - Reliance on government funding for our programs may add uncertainty to our research and commercialization efforts with respect to those programs that are tied to such funding and may impose requirements that limit our ability to take certain actions, increase the costs of commercialization and production of product candidates developed under those programs and subject us to potential financial penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.\"  Although we might apply for government contracts and grants in the future, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in obtaining additional grants for any product candidates or programs.. Risks Related to the Development of Our Product Candidates. Clinical trials are costly, time consuming and inherently risky, and we may fail to demonstrate safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities.. Clinical development is expensive, time consuming and involves significant risk.  We cannot guarantee that any clinical trials will be conducted as planned or completed on schedule, if at all.  A failure of one or more clinical trials can occur at any stage of development.  Events that may prevent successful or timely completion of clinical development include but are not limited to:. •  inability to generate satisfactory preclinical, toxicology or other in vivo or in vitro data or to develop diagnostics capable of supporting the initiation or continuation of clinical trials;. •  delays in reaching agreement on acceptable terms with clinical research organizations, or CROs, and clinical trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and clinical trial sites;. 41. •  delays or failure in obtaining required institutional review board, or IRB, approval at each clinical trial site;. •  failure to obtain or delays in obtaining a permit from regulatory authorities to conduct a clinical trial;. •  delays in recruiting or failure to recruit sufficient eligible patients in our clinical trials;. •  failure by clinical sites or CROs or other third parties to adhere to clinical trial requirements;. •  failure by our clinical sites, CROs or other third parties to perform in accordance with the good clinical practices requirements of the FDA or applicable foreign regulatory guidelines;. •  patients withdrawing from our clinical trials;. •  adverse events or other issues of concern significant enough for the FDA, or comparable foreign regulatory authority, to put an IND, on clinical hold;. •  occurrence of adverse events associated with our product candidates;. •  changes in regulatory requirements and guidance that require amending or submitting new clinical protocols;. •  the cost of clinical trials of our product candidates;. •  negative or inconclusive results from our clinical trials which may result in us deciding, or regulators requiring us, to conduct additional clinical trials or abandon development programs in other ongoing or planned indications for a product candidate; and. •  delays in reaching agreement on acceptable terms with third-party manufacturers and the time for manufacture of sufficient quantities of our product candidates for use in clinical trials.. Any inability to successfully complete clinical development and obtain regulatory approval for one or more of our product candidates could result in additional costs to us or impair our ability to generate revenue.  In addition, if we make manufacturing or formulation changes to our product candidates, we may need to conduct additional nonclinical studies and/or clinical trials to show that the results obtained from such new formulation are consistent with previous results obtained.  Clinical trial delays could also shorten any periods during which our products have patent protection and may allow competitors to develop and bring products to market before we do, which could impair our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates and may harm our business and results of operations.. The approach we are taking to discover and develop next generation immunotoxin therapies (called ETBs) is unproven and may never lead to marketable products.. The scientific discoveries that form the basis for our efforts to discover and develop our product candidates are relatively recent.  To date, neither we nor any other company has received regulatory approval to market therapeutics utilizing ETBs.  The scientific evidence to support the feasibility of developing drugs based on these discoveries is both preliminary and limited.  Successful development of ETB therapeutic products by us will require solving a number of issues, including identifying appropriate receptor targets, screening for and selecting potent and safe ETB drug candidates, developing a commercially feasible manufacturing process, successfully completing all required preclinical studies and clinical trials, successfully implementing all other requirements that may be mandated by regulatory agencies from clinical development through post-marketing periods, ensuring intellectual property protection in any territory where an ETB may be commercialized and commercializing an ETB successfully in a competitive product landscape.  In addition, any product candidates that we develop may not demonstrate in patients the biological and pharmacological properties ascribed to them in laboratory and preclinical testing, and they may interact with human biological systems in unforeseen, ineffective or even harmful ways.  If we do not successfully develop and commercialize one or more product candidates based upon this technological approach, we may not become profitable and the value of our capital stock may decline.. Further, our focus on ETB technology for developing product candidates as opposed to multiple, more proven technologies for drug development increases the risk associated with our business.  If we are not successful in. 42. developing an approved product using ETB technology, we may not be able to identify and successfully implement an alternative product development strategy.  In addition, work by other companies pursuing similar immunotoxin technologies may encounter setbacks and difficulties that regulators and investors may attribute to our product candidates, whether appropriate or not.. We are heavily dependent on the success of our product candidates, the most advanced of which is in the early stages of clinical development.  Our ETB therapeutic product candidates are based on a relatively novel technology, which makes it difficult to predict the time and cost of development and of subsequently obtaining regulatory approval, if at all.  Some of our product candidates have produced results in preclinical settings to date, or for other indications than those for which we contemplate conducting development and seeking FDA approval, and we cannot give any assurance that we will generate data for any of our product candidates sufficient to receive regulatory approval in our planned indications, which will be required before they can be commercialized. To date, no ETB therapeutics have been approved in the United States or elsewhere worldwide.. We have concentrated our research and development efforts to date on a limited number of product candidates based on our ETB therapeutic platform and identifying our initial targeted disease indications.  We have invested substantially all of our efforts and financial resources to identify, acquire and develop our portfolio of product candidates.  Our future success is dependent on our ability to successfully further develop, obtain regulatory approval for, and commercialize one or more product candidates.  We currently generate no revenue from sales of any products, and we may never be able to develop or commercialize a product candidate. We currently have one ETB product candidate, MT-3724, in Phase I clinical trials, and the remainder of our product candidates are in preclinical development.  MT-3724 has only been administered in patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.  This is only one of the multiple indications for which we plan to develop this product candidate.  There can be no assurance that we will not experience problems or delays in developing our product candidates and that such problems or delays will not cause unanticipated costs, or that any such development problems can be solved. Additionally, our clinical and preclinical data to date is not validated and we have no way of knowing if after validation our clinical trial data will be complete and consistent.  There can be no assurance that the data that we develop for our product candidates in our planned indications will be sufficient to obtain regulatory approval.. None of our ETB product candidates have advanced into a pivotal clinical trial for our proposed indications and it may be years before any such clinical trial is initiated and completed, if at all.  We are not permitted to market or promote any of our product candidates before we receive regulatory approval from the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities, and we may never receive such regulatory approval for any of our product candidates.  We cannot be certain that any of our product candidates will be successful in clinical trials or receive regulatory approval.  Further, our product candidates may not receive regulatory approval even if they are successful in clinical trials.  If we do not receive regulatory approvals for our product candidates, we may not be able to continue our operations.. Additionally, the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities have relatively limited experience with ETB therapeutics.  No regulatory authority has granted approval to any person or entity, including us, to market or commercialize ETB therapeutics, which may increase the complexity, uncertainty and length of the regulatory approval process for our product candidates.  If our ETB product candidates fail to prove to be safe, effective or commercially viable, our product candidate pipeline would have little, if any, value, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The clinical trial and manufacturing requirements of the FDA, the European Medicines Agency, or the EMA, and other regulatory authorities, and the criteria these regulators use to determine the safety and efficacy of a product candidate, vary substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use and market of the product candidate.  The regulatory approval process for novel product candidates such as ETB therapeutics can be more expensive and take longer than for other, better known or more extensively studied product candidates.  It is difficult to determine how long it will take or how much it will cost to obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates in either the United States or the European Union or how long it will take to commercialize our product candidates, even if approved for marketing.  Approvals by the European Commission may not be indicative of what the FDA may require for approval, and vice versa, and different or additional preclinical studies and clinical trials may be required to support regulatory approval in each respective jurisdiction.  Delay or failure to obtain, or unexpected costs in obtaining, the regulatory approval necessary to bring a potential product candidate to market. 43. could decrease our ability to generate sufficient product revenue, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be harmed.. We may find it difficult to enroll patients in our clinical trials given the limited number of patients who have the diseases for which our product candidates are being studied.  Difficulty in enrolling patients could delay or prevent clinical trials of our product candidates.. Identifying and qualifying patients to participate in clinical trials of our ETB product candidates is essential to our success.  The timing of our clinical trials depends in part on the rate at which we can recruit patients to participate in clinical trials of our product candidates, and we may experience delays in our clinical trials if we encounter difficulties in enrollment.. The eligibility criteria of our planned clinical trials may further limit the available eligible trial participants as we expect to require that patients have specific characteristics that we can measure or meet the criteria to assure their conditions are appropriate for inclusion in our clinical trials.  For instance, our Phase I clinical trial of MT-3724 includes patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.  The estimated incidence of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in the United States is 72,580 new cases and approximately 20,150 deaths were attributable to non-Hodgkin's B-cell lymphomas in 2016.  We may not be able to identify, recruit and enroll a sufficient number of patients to complete our clinical trials in a timely manner because of the perceived risks and benefits of the product candidate under study, the availability and efficacy of competing therapies and clinical trials, and the willingness of physicians to participate in our planned clinical trials.  If patients are unwilling to participate in our clinical trials for any reason, the timeline for conducting trials and obtaining regulatory approval of our product candidates may be delayed.. If we experience delays in the completion of, or termination of, any clinical trials of our product candidates, the commercial prospects of our product candidates could be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenue from any of these product candidates could be delayed or prevented.  In addition, any delays in completing our clinical trials would likely increase our overall costs, impair product candidate development and jeopardize our ability to obtain regulatory approval relative to our current plans.  Any of these occurrences may harm our business, financial condition, and prospects significantly.. Our product candidates may cause undesirable side effects or have other properties that could delay or prevent their regulatory approval, limit the commercial viability of an approved label, or result in significant negative consequences following marketing approval, if any.. Undesirable side effects caused by our product candidates could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay, or terminate clinical trials or result in a restrictive label or delay regulatory approval.. In addition, our MT-3724 product candidate has been studied in only a limited number of patients with a confirmed diagnosis of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, and the most common adverse events were peripheral edema, diarrhea, myalgia, cough, fatigue, constipation, nausea, anemia, stomatitis, pyrexia, dizziness, headache, insomnia, dyspnea, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, blurry vision, dysphagia, oral pain, chills, pneumonia, dehydration, hypoalbuminemia, hyponatremia, dysgeusia, oropharyngeal pain, and maculo-papular rash.  We may experience a higher rate or severity of adverse events and comparable or higher rates of discontinuation in testing in our future clinical trials.  There is no guarantee that additional or more severe side effects will not be identified through ongoing clinical trials of our product candidates for current and other indications.  Undesirable side effects and negative results for any of our product candidates may negatively impact the development and potential for approval of our product candidates for their proposed indications.. Additionally, even if one or more of our product candidates receives marketing approval, and we or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by such products, potentially significant negative consequences could result, including but not limited to:. •  regulatory authorities may withdraw approvals of such products;. •  regulatory authorities may require additional warnings on the label;. 44. •  we may be required to create a REMS plan, which could include a medication guide outlining the risks of such side effects for distribution to patients, a communication plan for healthcare providers, and/or other elements to assure safe use;. •  we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients; and. •  our reputation may suffer.. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of a product candidate, even if approved, and could significantly harm its business, results of operations, and prospects.. Our product development program may not discover all possible adverse events that patients who take MT-3724 or our other product candidates may experience.  The number of subjects exposed to MT-3724 or our other product candidates and the average exposure time in the clinical development program may be inadequate to detect all adverse events, or chance findings, that may only be detected once the product is administered to more patients and for greater periods of time.. Clinical trials by their nature utilize a sample of the potential patient population.  However, with a limited number of subjects and limited duration of exposure, we cannot be fully assured all severe side effects of MT-3724 or our other product candidates will be uncovered.  Such severe side effects may only be uncovered with a significantly larger number of patients exposed to the drug.  If such safety problems occur or are identified after MT-3724 or another product candidate reaches the market, the FDA, or comparable foreign regulatory authority, may require that we amend the labeling of the product or temporarily cease marketing the product, or may even withdraw approval for the product.. Our ETB therapeutic approach is novel.  Negative public opinion and increased regulatory scrutiny of ETB -based therapies may damage public perception of the safety of our product candidates and adversely affect our ability to conduct our business or obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates.. ETB therapy remains a novel technology, with no ETB therapy product approved to date in the United States or elsewhere worldwide.  Public perception may be influenced by claims that ETB therapy is unsafe, and ETB therapy may not gain the acceptance of the public or the medical community.  In particular, our success will depend upon physicians who specialize in the treatment of the diseases targeted by our product candidates prescribing treatments that involve the use of one or more of our approved product candidates in lieu of, or in addition to, existing treatments with which they are familiar and for which greater clinical data may be available.  More restrictive government regulations or negative public opinion regarding ETB-based therapeutics could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and may delay or impair the development and commercialization of our product candidates or demand for any products we may develop.  SAEs, in ETB clinical trials for our competitors' products, even if not ultimately attributable to the relevant product candidates, and the resulting publicity, could result in increased government regulation, unfavorable public perception, potential regulatory delays in the testing or approval of our product candidates, stricter labeling requirements for those product candidates that are approved and a decrease in demand for any such product candidates.. Product development involves a lengthy and expensive process with an uncertain outcome, and results of earlier preclinical studies and clinical trials may not be predictive of future clinical trial results.. Clinical testing is expensive and generally takes many years to complete, and the outcome is inherently uncertain.  Failure can occur at any time during the clinical trial process.  The results of preclinical studies and early clinical trials of our product candidates may not be predictive of the results of larger, later-stage controlled clinical trials.  Product candidates that have shown promising results in early-stage clinical trials may still suffer significant setbacks or failure in subsequent clinical trials.  Our clinical trial to date has been conducted on a small number of patients in limited numbers of clinical sites for a limited number of indications.  We will have to conduct larger, well-controlled trials in our proposed indications to verify the results obtained to date and to support any regulatory submissions for further clinical development.  A number of companies in the biopharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks or failure in advanced clinical trials due to lack of efficacy or adverse safety profiles despite promising results in earlier, smaller clinical trials.. 45. Moreover, clinical data are often susceptible to varying interpretations and analyses.  We do not know whether any Phase I, Phase II, Phase III or other clinical trials we may conduct will demonstrate consistent or adequate efficacy and safety with respect to the proposed indication for use sufficient to receive regulatory approval or market our drug candidates.. We may use our financial and human resources to pursue a particular research program or product candidate and fail to capitalize on programs or product candidates that may be more profitable or for which there is a greater likelihood of success.. Because we have limited financial and human resources, it may forego or delay pursuit of opportunities with some programs or product candidates or for other indications that later prove to have greater commercial potential.  Our resource allocation decisions may cause us to fail to capitalize on viable commercial products or more profitable market opportunities.  Our spending on current and future research and development programs and future product candidates for specific indications may not yield any commercially viable products.  We may also enter into additional strategic collaboration agreements to develop and commercialize some of our programs and potential product candidates in indications with potentially large commercial markets.  If we do not accurately evaluate the commercial potential or target market for a particular product candidate, we may relinquish valuable rights to that product candidate through strategic collaborations, licensing or other royalty arrangements in cases in which it would have been more advantageous for us to retain sole development and commercialization rights to such product candidate, or we may allocate internal resources to a product candidate in a therapeutic area in which it would have been more advantageous to enter into a partnering arrangement.. We may face potential product liability, and, if successful claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability and costs.  If the use or misuse of our product candidates harms patients, or is perceived to harm patients even when such harm is unrelated to our product candidates, our regulatory approvals, if any, could be revoked or otherwise negatively impacted and we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims.  If we are unable to obtain adequate insurance or are required to pay for liabilities resulting from a claim excluded from, or beyond the limits of, our insurance coverage, a material liability claim could adversely affect our financial condition.. The use or misuse of our product candidates in clinical trials and the sale of any products for which we may obtain marketing approval exposes us to the risk of potential product liability claims.  Product liability claims might be brought against us by consumers, healthcare providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling or otherwise coming into contact with our product candidates and approved products, if any.  There is a risk that our product candidates may induce adverse events.  If we cannot successfully defend against product liability claims, we could incur substantial liability and costs.  Some of our ETB therapeutics have shown in clinical trials adverse events, including peripheral edema, diarrhea, myalgia, cough, fatigue, constipation, nausea, anemia, stomatitis, pyrexia, dizziness, headache, insomnia, dyspnea, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, blurry vision, dysphagia, oral pain, chills, pneumonia, dehydration, hypoalbuminemia, hyponatremia, dysgeusia, oropharyngeal pain, and maculo-papular rash, among others.  There is a risk that our future product candidates may induce similar or more severe adverse events.  Patients with the diseases targeted by our product candidates may already be in severe and advanced stages of disease and have both known and unknown significant preexisting and potentially life-threatening health risks.  During the course of treatment, patients may suffer adverse events, including death, for reasons that may be related to our product candidates.  Such events could subject us to costly litigation, require us to pay substantial amounts of money to injured patients, delay, negatively impact or end our opportunity to receive or maintain regulatory approval to market our products, or require us to suspend or abandon our commercialization efforts.  Even in a circumstance in which an adverse event is unrelated to our product candidates, the investigation into the circumstance may be time-consuming or inconclusive.  These investigations may delay our regulatory approval process or impact and limit the type of regulatory approvals our product candidates receive or maintain.  As a result of these factors, a product liability claim, even if successfully defended, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Although we have product liability insurance covering our clinical trials in the United States for up to $4.0 million per occurrence up to an aggregate limit of $4.0 million, our insurance may be insufficient to reimburse us for any expenses or losses we may suffer.  We also will likely be required to increase our product liability insurance coverage for the advanced clinical trials that we plan to initiate.  If we obtain marketing approval for any of our. 46. product candidates, we will need to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products.  There is no way to know if we will be able to continue to obtain product liability coverage and obtain expanded coverage if we require it, in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability, on acceptable terms, or at all.  We may not have sufficient resources to pay for any liabilities resulting from a claim excluded from, or beyond the limits of, our insurance coverage.  Where we have provided indemnities in favor of third parties under our agreements with them, there is also a risk that these third parties could incur liability and bring a claim under such indemnities.  An individual may bring a product liability claim against us alleging that one of our product candidates causes, or is claimed to have caused, an injury or is found to be unsuitable for consumer use.  Any such product liability claims may include allegations of defects in manufacturing, defects in design, a failure to warn of dangers inherent in the product, negligence, strict liability and breach of warranties.  Claims also could be asserted under state consumer protection acts.  Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in:. •  withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers, investigators, patients or trial sites or limitations on approved indications;. •  the inability to commercialize, or if commercialized, decreased demand for, our product candidates;. •  if commercialized, product recalls, withdrawals of labeling, marketing or promotional restrictions or the need for product modification;. •  initiation of investigations by regulators;. •  loss of revenues;. •  substantial costs of litigation, including monetary awards to patients or other claimants;. •  liabilities that substantially exceed our product liability insurance, which we would then be required to pay ourselves;. •  an increase in our product liability insurance rates or the inability to maintain insurance coverage in the future on acceptable terms, if at all;. •  the diversion of management's attention from our business; and. •  damage to our reputation and the reputation of our products and our technology.. Product liability claims may subject us to the foregoing and other risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Risks Related to Regulatory Approval of Our Product Candidates and Other Legal Compliance Matters. A potential breakthrough therapy designation by the FDA for our product candidates may not lead to a faster development or regulatory review or approval process, and it does not increase the likelihood that our product candidates will receive marketing approval.. We may seek a breakthrough therapy designation from the FDA for some of our product candidates.  A breakthrough therapy is defined as a drug or biological product that is intended, alone or in combination with one or more other drugs, to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition, and preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug or biological product may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints, such as substantial treatment effects observed early in clinical development.  For drugs or biological products that have been designated as breakthrough therapies, interaction and communication between the FDA and the sponsor of a clinical trial can help to identify the most efficient path for clinical development while minimizing the number of patients placed in ineffective control regimens.  Drugs designated as breakthrough therapies by the FDA could also be eligible for accelerated approval.. Designation as a breakthrough therapy is within the discretion of the FDA.  Accordingly, even if we believe one of our product candidates meets the criteria for designation as a breakthrough therapy, the FDA may disagree and instead determine not to make such designation.  In any event, the receipt of a breakthrough therapy designation for a product candidate may not result in a faster development process, review or approval compared to drugs considered for approval under conventional or other accelerated FDA procedures and does not assure ultimate. 47. approval by the FDA.  In addition, even if one or more of our product candidates qualify and are designated as breakthrough therapies, the FDA may later decide that the drugs or biological products no longer meet the conditions for designation and the designation may be rescinded.. We may seek Fast Track designation for one or more of our product candidates, but we might not receive such designation, and even if we do, such designation may not actually lead to a faster development or regulatory review or approval process.. If a product candidate is intended for the treatment of a serious condition and nonclinical or clinical data demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical need for this condition, a product sponsor may apply for FDA Fast Track designation.  If we seek Fast Track designation for a product candidate, we may not receive it from the FDA.  However, even if we receive Fast Track designation, Fast Track designation does not ensure that we will receive marketing approval or that approval will be granted within any particular time frame.  We may not experience a faster development or regulatory review or approval process with Fast Track designation compared to conventional FDA procedures.  In addition, the FDA may withdraw Fast Track designation if the designation is no longer supported by data from our clinical development program.  Fast Track designation alone does not guarantee qualification for the FDA's priority review procedures.. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for a product, we will remain subject to ongoing regulatory requirements.. If any of our product candidates are approved, we will be subject to ongoing regulatory requirements with respect to manufacturing, labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, sampling, record-keeping, conduct of post-marketing clinical trials and submission of safety, efficacy and other post-approval information, including both federal and state requirements in the United States and requirements of comparable foreign regulatory authorities.. Manufacturers and manufacturers' facilities are required to continuously comply with FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authority requirements, including ensuring that quality control and manufacturing procedures conform to cGMP regulations and corresponding foreign regulatory manufacturing requirements.  As such, we and our contract manufacturers will be subject to continual review and inspections to assess compliance with cGMP and adherence to commitments made in any NDA or marketing authorization application.. Any regulatory approvals that we receive for our product candidates may be subject to limitations on the approved indicated uses for which the product candidate may be marketed or to the conditions of approval, or contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing testing, including Phase IV clinical trials, and surveillance to monitor the safety and efficacy of the product candidate.  We will be required to report adverse reactions and production problems, if any, to the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities.  Any new legislation addressing drug safety issues could result in delays in product development or commercialization, or increased costs to assure compliance.  If our original marketing approval for a product candidate was obtained through an accelerated approval pathway, we could be required to conduct a successful post-marketing clinical trial in order to confirm the clinical benefit for our products.  An unsuccessful post-marketing clinical trial or failure to complete such a trial could result in the withdrawal of marketing approval.. If a regulatory agency discovers previously unknown problems with a product, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, or disagrees with the promotion, marketing or labeling of a product, the regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product or us, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market.  If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency or enforcement authority may, among other things:. •  issue warning letters;. •  impose civil or criminal penalties;. •  suspend or withdraw regulatory approval;. •  suspend any of our ongoing clinical trials;. •  refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications submitted by us;. 48. •  impose restrictions on our operations, including closing our contract manufacturers' facilities; or. •  require a product recall.. Any government investigation of alleged violations of law would be expected to require us to expend significant time and resources in response and could generate adverse publicity.  Any failure to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements may significantly and adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize our products and our value and our operating results would be adversely affected.. Healthcare legislative reform measures may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. In the United States, there have been and continue to be a number of legislative initiatives to contain healthcare costs.  For example, in March 2010, the ACA was passed.  The ACA was intended to substantially change the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers, and significantly impacts the U.S.  pharmaceutical industry.  The ACA, among other things, addresses a new methodology by which rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program are calculated for drugs that are inhaled, infused, instilled, implanted or injected, increases the minimum Medicaid rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program and extends the rebate program to individuals enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations, establishes annual fees and taxes on manufacturers of specified branded prescription drugs, and promotes a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program.  However, the ACA has been under threat of repeal since its passage and in May 2017, the U.S.  House of Representatives passed legislation known as the American Health Care Act, or the AHCA, which, if enacted, would amend and repeal significant portions of the ACA.  While the AHCA was passed by the U.S.  House of Representatives, it is unclear whether and in what form this legislation might be passed by the U.S.  Senate and, if so, what form any final legislation might take.  In any event, it is not clear what the impact of this legislation or other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future will have on any of our product candidates if they are approved.. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted in the United States since the ACA was enacted, and we expect that additional state and federal healthcare reform measures will be adopted in the future, any of which could limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for healthcare products and services, which could result in reduced demand or lower pricing for our product candidates or additional pricing pressures.. We may be subject, directly or indirectly, to federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws, false claims laws, and health information privacy and security laws.  If we are unable to comply, or have not fully complied, with such laws, we could face substantial penalties.. If we obtain FDA approval for any of our product candidates and begin commercializing those products in the United States, our operations will be subject to various federal and state fraud and abuse laws, including, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the federal False Claims Act, and physician sunshine laws and regulations.  These laws may impact, among other things, our proposed sales, marketing and education programs.  In addition, we may be subject to patient privacy regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business.  The laws that may affect our ability to operate include:. •  the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce, or in return for, the purchase or recommendation of an item or service reimbursable under a federal healthcare program, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs;. •  federal civil and criminal false claims laws and civil monetary penalty laws, which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent;. •  HIPAA, which created new federal criminal statutes that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program and making false statements relating to healthcare matters;. 49. •  the federal physician sunshine requirements under the Health Care Reform Laws requires manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies to report annually to the U.S.  Department of Health and Human Services information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians, other healthcare providers and teaching hospitals, and ownership and investment interests held by physicians and other healthcare providers and their immediate family members and applicable group purchasing organizations; and. •  state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws that may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including governmental and private payors, to comply with the pharmaceutical industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government, or otherwise restrict payments that may be made to healthcare providers and other potential referral sources; state laws that require drug manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures, and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in specified circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts.. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the statutory exceptions and safe harbors available, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws.  In addition, recent health care reform legislation has strengthened these laws.  For example, the Health Care Reform Law, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and criminal healthcare fraud statute.  A person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it.  Moreover, the ACA provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the False Claims Act.. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from participation in government health care programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, imprisonment, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our results of operations.. Reliance on government funding for our programs may add uncertainty to our research and commercialization efforts with respect to those programs that are tied to such funding and may impose requirements that limit our ability to take certain actions, increase the costs of commercialization and production of product candidates developed under those programs and subject us to potential financial penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. During the course of our development of our lead product candidate, we have been funded in significant part through state grants, including but not limited to the substantial funding we have received from the Cancer Prevention & Research Institute of Texas, or CPRIT.  In addition to the funding we have received to date, we have applied and intend to continue to apply for federal and state grants to receive additional funding in the future.  We have been awarded a second CPRIT grant for our MT-4019 program where contract negotiations and amendments are still ongoing and may or may not be successful.  Contracts and grants funded by the U.S. government, state governments and their related agencies, including our contracts with the State of Texas pertaining to funds we have already received, include provisions that reflect the government's substantial rights and remedies, many of which are not typically found in commercial contracts, including powers of the government to:. •  require repayment of all or a portion of the grant proceeds, in certain cases with interest, in the event we violate certain covenants pertaining to various matters that include any potential relocation outside of the State of Texas, failure to achieve certain milestones or to comply with terms relating to use of grant proceeds, or failure to comply with certain laws;. •  terminate agreements, in whole or in part, for any reason or no reason;. •  reduce or modify the government's obligations under such agreements without the consent of the other party;. 50. •  claim rights, including certain intellectual property rights, in products and data developed under such agreements;. •  audit contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs;. •  suspend the contractor or grantee from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations;. •  impose State of Texas or U.S. manufacturing requirements for products that embody inventions conceived or first reduced to practice under such agreements;. •  impose qualifications for the engagement of manufacturers, suppliers and other contractors as well as other criteria for reimbursements;. •  suspend or debar the contractor or grantee from doing future business with the government;. •  control and potentially prohibit the export of products;. •  pursue criminal or civil remedies under the False Claims Act, False Statements Act and similar remedy provisions specific to government agreements; and. •  limit the government's financial liability to amounts appropriated by the State of Texas on a fiscal-year basis, thereby leaving some uncertainty about the future availability of funding for a program even after it has been funded for an initial period.. •  In addition to those powers set forth above, the government funding we may receive could also impose requirements to make payments based upon sales of our products in the future.  For example, under the terms of our award from CPRIT, we are required to pay CPRIT a portion of its revenues from sales of products directly funded by CPRIT, or received from our licensees or sublicensees, at a percentage in the mid-single digits until the aggregate amount of such payments equals a specified multiple of the grant amount, and thereafter at a rate of less than or equal to three percent, subject to our right, under certain circumstances, to make a one-time payment in a specified amount to CPRIT to buy out such payment obligations.. We may not have the right to prohibit the State of Texas or, if relevant under possible future federal grants, the U.S. government, from using certain technologies developed by us, and we may not be able to prohibit third-party companies, including our competitors, from using those technologies in providing products and services to the U.S. government.  The U.S. government generally takes the position that it has the right to royalty-free use of technologies that are developed under U.S. government contracts.  These and other provisions of government grants may also apply to intellectual property we license now or in the future.. In addition, government contracts and grants normally contain additional requirements that may increase our costs of doing business, reduce our profits and expose us to liability for failure to comply with these terms and conditions.  These requirements include, for example:. •  specialized accounting systems unique to government contracts and grants;. •  mandatory financial audits and potential liability for price adjustments or recoupment of government funds after such funds have been spent;. •  public disclosures of certain contract and grant information, which may enable competitors to gain insights into our research program; and. •  mandatory socioeconomic compliance requirements, including labor standards, non-discrimination and affirmative action programs and environmental compliance requirements.. If we fail to maintain compliance with any such requirements that may apply to us now or in the future, we may be subject to potential liability and to termination of our contracts.. 51. If we fail to comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, we could become subject to fines or penalties or incur costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our research and development activities and our third-party manufacturers' and suppliers' activities involve the controlled storage, use, and disposal of hazardous materials, including the components of our product candidates and other hazardous compounds.  We and our manufacturers and suppliers are subject to laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of these hazardous materials.  In some cases, these hazardous materials and various wastes resulting from their use are stored at our and our manufacturers' facilities pending their use and disposal.  We cannot eliminate the risk of contamination, which could cause an interruption of our commercialization efforts, research and development efforts and business operations; environmental damage resulting in costly clean-up; and liabilities under applicable laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling, and disposal of these materials and specified waste products.  Although we believe that the safety procedures utilized by us and our third-party manufacturers for handling and disposing of these materials generally comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, we cannot guarantee that this is the case or eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials.  In such an event, we may be held liable for any resulting damages and such liability could exceed our resources and state or federal or other applicable authorities may curtail our use of specified materials and/or interrupt our business operations.  Furthermore, environmental laws and regulations are complex, change frequently, and have tended to become more stringent.  We cannot predict the impact of such changes and cannot be certain of our future compliance.  We do not currently carry biological or hazardous waste insurance coverage.. The recently passed comprehensive tax reform bill could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,\" or TCJA, that significantly reforms the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code. The TCJA, among other things, includes changes to U.S. federal tax rates, imposes significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest and net operating loss carryforwards, allows for the expensing of capital expenditures, and puts into effect the migration from a \"worldwide\" system of taxation to a territorial system. Our net deferred tax assets and liabilities will be revalued at the newly enacted U.S. corporate rate, and the impact, if any, will be recognized in our tax expense in the year of enactment. We continue to examine the impact this tax reform legislation may have on our business. The impact of this tax reform is uncertain and could be adverse. We urge our stockholders to consult with their legal and tax advisors with respect to such legislation and the potential tax consequences of investing in our common stock.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. Our ability to compete may decline if we are unable to establish intellectual property rights or if our intellectual property rights are inadequate to protect our ETB technology, present and future product candidates and related processes for our developmental pipeline.. We rely or will rely upon a combination of patents, trade secret protection, and confidentiality agreements to protect our intellectual property related to our technologies and product candidates.  Our commercial success and viability depends in large part on our and any potential future licensors' ability to obtain, maintain and enforce patent and other intellectual property protections in the United States, Europe and other countries worldwide with respect to our current and future proprietary technologies and product candidates.  If we or our future collaboration partners do not adequately protect such intellectual property, competitors may be able to use our technologies and erode or negate any competitive advantage we may have, which could materially harm our business, negatively affect our position in the marketplace, limit our ability to commercialize product candidates and delay or render impossible our achievement of profitability.. Our strategy and future prospects are based, in particular, on our patent portfolio.  We and our future collaboration partners or licensees will best be able to protect our proprietary ETB technologies, product candidates and their uses from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable patents, other regulatory exclusivities or effectively protected trade secrets, cover them.  We have sought to protect our proprietary position by filing patent applications in the United States and elsewhere worldwide related to our proprietary ETB. 52. technologies, product candidates and methods of use that are important to our business.  This process is expensive and time consuming, and we may not be able to file and prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner.  It is also possible that we will fail to identify patentable aspects of our research and development output before it is too late to obtain meaningful patent protection.. Intellectual property rights have limitations and do not necessarily address all potential threats to our competitive advantage.  Our ability to obtain patent protection for our proprietary technologies, product candidates and their uses is uncertain and the degree of future protection afforded by our intellectual property rights is uncertain due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to:. •  we or our current or future collaboration partners may not have been the first to make the inventions covered by pending patent applications or issued patents;. •  we or our current or future collaboration partners may not have been the first to file patent applications covering our ETB technology, product candidates, compositions or their uses;. •  others may independently develop identical, similar or alternative methods, products, product candidates or compositions and uses thereof;. •  we or our current or future collaboration partners' disclosures in patent applications may not be sufficient to meet the statutory requirements for patentability;. •  any or all of our or our current or future collaboration partners' pending patent applications may not result in issued patents;. •  we or our current or future collaboration partners may not seek or obtain patent protection in countries that may eventually provide us with a significant business opportunity;. •  any patents issued to us or our current or future collaboration partners may not provide a basis for commercially viable products, may not provide any competitive advantages or may be successfully challenged by third parties;. •  we or our current or future collaboration partners' products, product candidates, compositions, methods or uses thereof may not be patentable;. •  others may design around our or our current or future collaboration partners' patent claims to produce competitive products or uses which fall outside of the scope of our patents or other intellectual property rights;. •  others may identify prior art or other bases which could invalidate our or our current or future collaboration partners' patents;. •  our competitors might conduct research and development activities in the United States and other countries that provide a safe harbor from patent infringement claims for certain research and development activities, as well as in countries where we or our current or future collaboration partners do not have patent rights, and then use the information learned from such activities to develop competitive products for sale in major commercial markets; or. •  we or our current or future collaboration partners may not develop additional proprietary technologies or products that are patentable.. Further, the patent position of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies generally is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions for which legal principles remain unsolved.  The patent applications that we own or in-license may fail to result in issued patents with claims that cover our product candidates or their uses in the United States or in other foreign countries.  There is no assurance that all potentially relevant prior art relating to our patents and patent applications has been found, which can invalidate a patent or prevent a patent from issuing from a pending patent application.  Even if patents do successfully issue, and even if such patents cover our product candidates or their uses, third parties may challenge their validity, enforceability or scope, which may result in such patents being narrowed, found unenforceable or invalidated.  Furthermore, even if they are unchallenged, our patents and patent applications may not adequately protect our intellectual property, provide exclusivity for our. 53. product candidates or prevent others from designing around our claims.  Any of these outcomes could impair our ability to prevent competition from third parties, which may have an adverse impact on our business.. We, independently or together with our licensors, have filed several patent applications covering various aspects of our ETB technology, product candidates and associated assays and uses.  We cannot offer any assurances about which, if any, patents will issue, the breadth of any such patent or whether any issued patents will be found invalid and unenforceable or will be threatened by third parties.  Any successful opposition or challenge to these patents or any other patents owned by or licensed to us after patent issuance could deprive us of rights necessary for the successful commercialization of any product candidates that we may develop.  Further, if we encounter delays in regulatory approvals, the period of time during which we could market a product candidate under patent protection could be reduced.. If we cannot obtain and maintain effective protection of exclusivity from our regulatory efforts and intellectual property rights, including patent protection or data or market exclusivity for our product candidates or their uses, we may not be able to compete effectively and our business and results of operations would be harmed.. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights throughout the world.. Filing, prosecuting and defending patents on product candidates in all countries throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive.  In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as federal and state laws in the United States.  Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection to develop our own products and may also export infringing products to territories where we have patent protection, but enforcement is not as strong as that in the United States.  These products may compete with our products, and our patents or other intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent them from competing.. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions.  The legal systems of some countries, particularly some developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents, trade secrets and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to healthcare, medicine, or biotechnology products, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents or marketing of competing products in violation of our proprietary rights generally.  Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions, whether or not successful, could result in substantial costs and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business, could put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing and could provoke third parties to assert claims against us.  We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate, and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially meaningful.  Accordingly, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights around the world may be inadequate to obtain a significant commercial advantage from the intellectual property that we develop or license.. We may not have sufficient patent terms and regulatory exclusivity protections for our product candidates to effectively protect our competitive position.. Patents have a limited term.  In the United States and most jurisdictions worldwide, the statutory expiration of a non-provisional patent is generally 20 years after it is first filed.  Although various extensions may be available, the life of a patent, and the protection it affords, is limited.  Even if patents covering our technologies, product candidates and associated uses are obtained, once the patent life has expired for a product candidate, we may be open to competition from generic, biosimilar or biobetter medications.. Patent term extensions under the Hatch-Waxman Act in the United States, and regulatory extensions in Japan and certain other countries, and under Supplementary Protection Certificates in Europe, may be available to extend the patent or market or data exclusivity terms of our product candidates depending on the timing and duration of the regulatory review process relative to patent term.  In addition, upon issuance in the United States, any patent term may be adjusted based on specified delays during patent prosecution caused by the applicant(s) or the USPTO.  We will likely rely on patent term extensions, and we cannot provide any assurances that any such patent term extensions will be obtained and, if so, for how long.  As a result, we may not be able to maintain exclusivity for our product candidates for an extended period after regulatory approval, if any, which would negatively impact our. 54. business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.  If we do not have sufficient patent terms or regulatory exclusivity to protect our product candidates, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected.. Changes in U.S. patent law could diminish the value of patents in general, thereby impairing our ability to protect our products, and recent patent reform legislation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents.. As is the case with other biotechnology companies, our success is heavily dependent on patents.  Obtaining and enforcing patents in the biotechnology industry involve both technological and legal complexity, and is therefore costly, time-consuming and inherently uncertain.  In addition, the United States has recently enacted and is currently implementing wide-ranging patent reform legislation.  Recent U.S. Supreme Court rulings have narrowed the scope of patent protection available in specified circumstances and weakened the rights of patent owners in specified situations.  In addition to increasing uncertainty with regard to our ability to obtain patents in the future, this combination of events has created uncertainty with respect to the value of patents, once obtained.  Depending on decisions by the U.S. Congress, the federal courts, and the USPTO, the laws and regulations governing patents could change in unpredictable ways that would weaken our ability to obtain new patents or to enforce our existing patents and patents that we might obtain in the future.. For our U.S. patent applications containing a claim not entitled to priority before March 16, 2013, there is a greater level of uncertainty in the patent law.  On September 16, 2011, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the Leahy-Smith Act, was signed into law.  The Leahy-Smith Act includes a number of significant changes to U.S. patent law.  These include provisions that affect the way patent applications are prosecuted and may also affect patent litigation.  The USPTO has promulgated regulations and developed procedures to govern administration of the Leahy-Smith Act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the Leahy-Smith Act, and in particular, the first inventor to file provisions, did not come into effect until March 16, 2013.  The Leahy-Smith Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. An important change introduced by the Leahy-Smith Act is that, as of March 16, 2013, the United States transitioned to a \"first-inventor-to-file\" system for deciding which party should be granted a patent when two or more patent applications are filed by different parties claiming the same invention.  A third party that filed or files a patent application in the USPTO after March 16, 2013 but before we file an application could therefore be awarded a patent covering an invention of ours even if we had made the invention before it was made by the third party.  This will require us to be cognizant going forward of the time from invention to filing of a patent application.  Furthermore, our ability to obtain and maintain valid and enforceable patents depends on whether the differences between our technology and the prior art allow our technology to be patentable over the prior art.  Since patent applications in the United States and most other countries are confidential for a period of time after filing, we cannot be certain that we were the first to either (i) file any patent application related to our product candidates or (ii) invent any of the inventions claimed in our patents or patent applications.. Among some of the other changes introduced by the Leahy-Smith Act are changes that limit where a patentee may file a patent infringement suit and new procedures providing opportunities for third parties to challenge any issued patent in the USPTO.  Included in these new procedures is a process known as inter partes review, or IPR, which has been generally used by many third parties to invalidate patents.  The IPR process is not limited to patents filed after the Leahy-Smith Act was enacted, and would therefore be available to a third party seeking to invalidate any of our U.S. patents, even those issued or filed before March 16, 2013.  Because of a lower evidentiary standard in USPTO proceedings compared to the evidentiary standard in U.S. federal court necessary to invalidate a patent claim, a third party could potentially provide evidence in a USPTO proceeding sufficient for the USPTO to hold a claim invalid even though the same evidence would be insufficient to invalidate the claim if first presented in a district court action.  Accordingly, a third party may attempt to use the USPTO procedures to invalidate our patent claims that would not have been invalidated if first challenged by the third party as a defendant in a district court action.. 55. Issued patents covering our ETB technologies, product candidates and uses could be found invalid or unenforceable if challenged in court.. Even if our or our current or future collaboration partners' patents do successfully issue and even if such patents cover our product candidates and methods of use, third parties may initiate interference, re-examination, post-grant review, IPR or derivation actions in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO; may initiate third party oppositions in the European Patent Office, or EPO; or may initiate similar actions challenging the validity, enforceability or scope of such patents in other patent administrative proceedings worldwide, which may result in patent claims being narrowed or invalidated.  Such proceedings could result in revocation or amendment of our patents in such a way that they no longer cover competitive technologies, product candidates or methods of use.  Further, if we initiate legal proceedings against a third party to enforce a patent covering our technologies, product candidates or uses, the defendant could counterclaim that our relevant patent is invalid or unenforceable.  In patent litigation in the United States, certain European and other countries worldwide, it is commonplace for defendants to make counterclaims alleging invalidity and unenforceability in the same proceeding, or to commence parallel defensive proceedings such as patent nullity actions to challenge validity and enforceability of asserted patent claims.  Further, in the United States, a third party, including a licensee of one of our or our current or future collaboration partners' patents, may initiate legal proceedings against us in which the third party challenges the validity, enforceability, or scope of our patent(s).. In administrative and court actions, grounds for a patent validity challenge may include alleged failures to meet any of several statutory requirements, including lack of novelty, nonobviousness (or inventive step) and, in some cases clarity, adequate written description or non-enablement of, the claimed invention.  Grounds for unenforceability assertions include allegations that someone connected with prosecution of the patent withheld relevant information from the Examiner during prosecution in the USPTO, or made a misleading statement during prosecution in the USPTO, the EPO or elsewhere.  Third parties also may raise similar claims before administrative bodies in the USPTO or the EPO, even outside the context of litigation.  The outcome following legal assertions of invalidity and unenforceability are unpredictable.  With respect to patent claim validity, for example, we cannot be certain that there is no invalidating prior art, of which we or the patent examiner was unaware during prosecution.  Further, we cannot be certain that all of the potentially relevant art relating to our patents and patent applications has been brought to the attention of every patent office.  If a defendant or other patent challenger were to prevail on a legal assertion of invalidity or unenforceability, we could lose at least in part, and perhaps all, of the patent protection on our ETB technology, product candidates and associated uses.. We may become involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights, which could be expensive, time consuming and unsuccessful and have a material adverse effect on the success of our business.. Competitors may infringe our patents or the patents of any of our future licensors.  If we or one of our licensing partners were to initiate legal proceedings against a third party to enforce a patent covering one of our product candidates, the defendant could counterclaim that the patent covering our product candidate is invalid and/or unenforceable.  Grounds for a validity challenge could be an alleged failure to meet any of several statutory requirements, including lack of novelty, nonobviousness, adequate written description, clarity or non-enablement.  Grounds for an unenforceability assertion could be an allegation that someone connected with prosecution of the patent withheld relevant information from the USPTO, or made a misleading statement, during prosecution.  The outcome following legal assertions of invalidity and unenforceability is unpredictable.. There is also a risk that, even if the validity of such patents is upheld, the court will construe the patent's claims narrowly or decide that we do not have the right to stop the other party from using the claimed invention at issue on the grounds that our or our current or future collaboration partners' patent claims do not cover the claimed invention.  Third parties may in the future make claims challenging the inventorship or ownership of our intellectual property.  An adverse outcome in a litigation or proceeding involving one or more of our patents could limit our ability to assert those patents against those parties or other competitors, and may curtail or preclude our ability to exclude third parties from making and selling similar or competitive products.  Similarly, if we assert trademark infringement claims, a court may determine that the marks we have asserted are invalid or unenforceable, or that the party against whom we have asserted trademark infringement has superior rights to the marks in question.  In this case, we could ultimately be forced to cease use of such trademarks.. 56. Even if we were to establish infringement of our patent rights by a third party, the court may decide not to grant an injunction against further infringing activity and instead award only monetary damages, which may or may not be an adequate remedy.  Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during litigation.  There could also be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments.  If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.  Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient financial or other resources to file and pursue such infringement claims, which typically last for years before they are concluded and can involve substantial expenses.  Even if we ultimately prevail in such claims, the monetary cost of such litigation and the diversion of the attention of our management and scientific personnel could outweigh any benefit we receive as a result of the proceedings.. Interference or derivation proceedings provoked by third parties or brought by us or declared by the USPTO may be necessary to determine the priority or inventorship of inventions with respect to our patents or patent applications or those of any of our future licensors.  An unfavorable outcome could require us to cease using the related technology or to attempt to license rights to it from the prevailing party.  Our business could be harmed if the prevailing party does not offer us a license on commercially reasonable terms.  Our defense of litigation, interference proceedings, or derivation proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and distract our management and other employees.  In addition, the uncertainties associated with litigation and administrative proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the funds necessary to continue our clinical trials, continue our research programs, license necessary technology from third parties or enter into development partnerships that would help us bring our product candidates to market.. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets and know-how for our product candidates or any future product candidates, we may not be able to compete effectively in our proposed markets.. In addition to the protection afforded by patents, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect proprietary know-how that is not patentable or that we elect not to patent, processes for which patents are difficult to enforce and any other elements of our product candidate discovery and development processes that involve proprietary know-how, information or technology that is not covered by patents.  However, trade secrets can be difficult to protect.  We seek to protect our proprietary technology and processes, in part, by entering into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, scientific advisors and contractors.  We also seek to preserve the integrity and confidentiality of our data and trade secrets by maintaining physical security of our premises and physical and electronic security of our information technology systems.  While we have confidence in these individuals, organizations and systems, agreements or security measures may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach.  In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors.. Although our current employment contracts provide for and we expect all of our employees and consultants to assign their inventions to us, and all of our employees, consultants, advisors, and any third parties who have access to our proprietary know-how, information or technology are expected to enter into confidentiality agreements, we cannot provide any assurances that all such agreements have been duly executed or that our trade secrets and other confidential proprietary information will not be disclosed or that competitors will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques.  Misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of our trade secrets could impair our competitive position and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  Additionally, if the steps taken to maintain our trade secrets are deemed inadequate, we may have insufficient recourse against third parties for misappropriating trade secrets.. Third-party claims of intellectual property infringement could result in costly litigation or other proceedings and may prevent or delay our development and commercialization efforts.. Our commercial success depends in part on our ability to develop, manufacture, market and sell our product candidates and use our proprietary technology without infringing the patent rights of third parties.  We are currently not aware of U.S. or foreign patents or pending patent applications owned by third parties that cover our ETBs or therapeutic uses of ETBs.  In the future, we may identify such third-party U.S. and non-U.S. issued patents and. 57. pending applications.  If we identify any such patents or pending applications, we may in the future pursue available proceedings in the U.S. and foreign patent offices to challenge the validity of these patents and patent applications.  In addition, or alternatively, we may consider whether to seek to negotiate a license of rights to technology covered by one or more of such patents and patent applications.  If any patents or patent applications cover our product candidates or technologies or a requisite manufacturing process, we may not be free to manufacture or market our product candidates, including MT-3724, as planned, absent such a license, which may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.. It is also possible that we have failed to identify relevant third-party patents or applications.  For example, applications filed before November 29, 2000 and applications filed after that date that will not be filed outside the United States remain confidential until patents issue.  Moreover, it is difficult for industry participants, including us, to identify all third-party patent rights that may be relevant to product candidates and technologies because patent searching is imperfect due to differences in terminology among patents, incomplete databases and the difficulty in assessing the meaning of patent claims.  We may fail to identify relevant patents or patent applications or may identify pending patent applications of potential interest but incorrectly predict the likelihood that such patent applications may issue with claims of relevance to our technology.  In addition, we may be unaware of one or more issued patents that would be infringed by the manufacture, sale or use of a current or future product candidate, or we may incorrectly conclude that a third-party patent is invalid, unenforceable or not infringed by our activities.  Additionally, pending patent applications that have been published can, subject to specified limitations, be later amended in a manner that could cover our technologies, our product candidates or the use of our product candidates.. There have been many lawsuits and other proceedings involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, including patent infringement lawsuits, interferences, oppositions and reexamination proceedings before the USPTO and corresponding foreign patent offices.  Third parties own numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications in the fields in which we are developing product candidates.  As the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries expand and more patents are issued, the risk increases that our product candidates may be subject to claims of infringement of the patent rights of third parties.. Parties making patent infringement claims against us may obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability to further develop and commercialize one or more of our product candidates.  Defense of these claims, regardless of their merit, may involve substantial litigation expense and may require a substantial diversion of employee resources from our business.  In the event of a successful claim of patent infringement against us, we may have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages and attorneys' fees for willful infringement, pay royalties, redesign our infringing products or obtain one or more licenses from third parties, which may be impossible or require substantial time and monetary expenditure.. We may be unsuccessful in obtaining or maintaining third-party rights necessary to develop our ETB technologies or to commercialize our product candidates and associated methods of use through acquisitions and in-licenses.. Presently, we have rights to intellectual property under patent applications that we own.  Because our programs may involve a range of ETB targets and antibody domains, which in the future may include targets and antibody domains that require the use of proprietary rights held by third parties, the growth of our business may likely depend in part on our ability to acquire, in-license or use these proprietary rights.  In addition, our product candidates may require specific formulations or manufacturing technologies to work effectively and be manufactured efficiently, and these rights may be held by others.  We may be unable to acquire or in-license any compositions, methods of use, processes or other third-party intellectual property rights from third parties that we identify.  The licensing and acquisition of third-party intellectual property rights is a competitive area, and a number of more established companies are also pursuing strategies to license or acquire third-party intellectual property rights that we may consider attractive.  These established companies may have a competitive advantage over us due to their size, cash resources and greater clinical development and commercialization capabilities.. For example, we have previously and may continue to collaborate with federal, state or international academic institutions to accelerate our preclinical research or development under written agreements with these institutions.  Typically, these institutions grant the rights to the collaborator and retain a non-commercial license to all rights as. 58. well as march-in rights in the situation that the collaborator fails to exercise or commercialize certain covered technologies.  Regardless of such initial rights, we may be unable to exercise or commercialize certain funded technologies thereby triggering march-in rights of the funding institution.  If we are unable to do so, the institution may offer the intellectual property rights to other parties, potentially blocking our ability to pursue our program.. In addition, companies that perceive us to be a competitor may be unwilling to assign or license rights to it.  We also may be unable to license or acquire third-party intellectual property rights on terms that would allow us to make an appropriate return on our investment.  If we are unable to successfully obtain rights to third-party intellectual property rights, our business, financial condition and prospects for growth could suffer.. If we are unable to successfully obtain and maintain rights to required third-party intellectual property, we may have to abandon development of that product candidate or pay additional amounts to the third-party, and our business and financial condition could suffer.. The patent protection and patent prosecution for some of our product candidates may in the future be dependent on third parties.. While we normally have or seek and gain the right to fully prosecute the patent applications relating to our product candidates, there may be times when certain patents or patent applications relating to our product candidates, their uses or their manufacture may be controlled by our future licensors.  If any of our future licensors fail to appropriately and broadly prosecute patent applications and maintain patent protection of claims covering any of our product candidates, their uses or their manufacture, our ability to develop and commercialize those product candidates may be adversely affected and we may not be able to prevent competitors from making, using, importing, and selling competing products.  In addition, even where we now have the right to control patent prosecution of patent applications or the maintenance of patents we have licensed from third parties in the future, we may still be adversely affected or prejudiced by actions or inactions of our licensors in effect from actions prior to us assuming control over patent prosecution.. If we fail to comply with obligations in the agreements under which we license intellectual property and other rights from third parties or otherwise experience disruptions to our business relationships with our licensors, we could lose license rights that are important to our business.. We are and will continue to be a party to a number of intellectual property license collaboration and supply agreements that may be important to our business and expect to enter into additional license agreements in the future.  Our existing agreements impose, and we expect that future agreements will impose, various diligence, milestone payment, royalty, purchasing and other obligations on us.  If we fail to comply with our obligations under these agreements, or we are subject to a bankruptcy, our agreements may be subject to termination by the licensor or other contract partner, in which event we would not be able to develop, manufacture or market products covered by the license or subject to supply commitments.. We may be subject to claims that our employees, consultants or independent contractors have wrongfully used or disclosed confidential information of third parties or that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers.. We employ individuals who were previously employed at universities or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including potential competitors.  Although we have written agreements and make every effort to ensure that our employees, consultants and independent contractors do not use the proprietary information or intellectual property rights of others in their work for us, we may in the future be subject to claims that our employees, consultants or independent contractors have wrongfully used or disclosed confidential information of third parties.  Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims.  If we fail in defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel, which could adversely impact our business.  Even if we are successful in defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management and other employees.. 59. Risks Related to Our Reliance on Third Parties. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, manufacture our product candidates and perform other services.  If these third parties do not successfully perform and comply with regulatory requirements, we may not be able to successfully complete clinical development, obtain regulatory approval or commercialize our product candidates, and our business could be substantially harmed.. We have relied upon and plan to continue to rely upon third-party CROs to conduct, monitor and manage our ongoing clinical programs.  We rely on these parties for execution of clinical trials and we manage and control only some aspects of their activities.  We remain responsible for ensuring that each of our trials is conducted in accordance with the applicable protocol, legal, regulatory and scientific standards, and our reliance on the CROs does not relieve us of our regulatory responsibilities.  We and our CROs and other vendors are required to comply with all applicable laws, regulations and guidelines, including those required by the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities for all of our product candidates in clinical development.  If we or any of our CROs or vendors fail to comply with applicable laws, regulations and guidelines, the results generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable, and the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications.  We cannot be assured that our CROs and other vendors will meet these requirements, or that upon inspection by any regulatory authority, such regulatory authority will determine that efforts, including any of our clinical trials, comply with applicable requirements.  Our failure to comply with these laws, regulations and guidelines may require us to repeat clinical trials, which would be costly and delay the regulatory approval process.. If any of our relationships with these third-party CROs terminates, we may not be able to enter into arrangements with alternative CROs in a timely manner or do so on commercially reasonable terms.  In addition, our CROs may not prioritize our clinical trials relative to those of other customers, and any turnover in personnel or delays in the allocation of CRO employees by the CRO may negatively affect our clinical trials.  If CROs do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, our clinical trials may be delayed or terminated and we may not be able to meet our current plans with respect to our product candidates.  CROs also may involve higher costs than anticipated, which could negatively affect our financial condition and operations.. We currently do not have the capability to manufacture product candidates for use in the conduct of our clinical trials, and we currently lack the resources and the capability to manufacture any of our product candidates on a clinical or commercial scale without the use of third-party manufacturers.  Until the completion of our cGMP manufacturing facility, we plan to rely in part on third-party manufacturers, and their responsibilities will include purchasing from third-party suppliers the materials necessary to produce our product candidates for our clinical trials and regulatory approval.  We expect there to be a limited number of suppliers for some of the raw materials that we expect to use to manufacture our product candidates, and we may not be able to identify alternative suppliers to prevent a possible disruption of the manufacture of our product candidates for our clinical trials, and, if approved, ultimately for commercial sale.  Even after the completion of our cGMP manufacturing facility, we may not be able to manufacture product candidates or there may be substantial technical or logistical challenges to supporting manufacturing demand for products candidates.  We may also fail to comply with cGMP requirements and standards which would not enable us to utilize the manufacturing facility to make clinical trial supply.. Although we generally do not expect to begin a clinical trial unless we believe we have a sufficient supply of a product candidate to complete the trial, any significant delay or discontinuity in the supply of a product candidate, or the raw materials or other material components in the manufacture of the product candidate, could delay completion of our clinical trials and potential timing for regulatory approval of our product candidates, which would harm our business and results of operations.  We do not yet have sufficient information to reliably estimate the cost of the commercial manufacturing of our product candidates and our current costs to manufacture our drug products may not be commercially feasible, and the actual cost to manufacture our product candidates could materially and adversely affect the commercial viability of our product candidates.  As a result, we may never be able to develop a commercially viable product.. 60. In addition, our reliance on third-party manufacturers exposes us to the following additional risks:. •  we may be unable to identify manufacturers on acceptable terms or at all;. •  our third-party manufacturers might be unable to timely formulate and manufacture our product or produce the quantity and quality required to meet our clinical and commercial needs, if any;. •  contract manufacturers may not be able to execute our manufacturing procedures appropriately;. •  our future third-party manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required to supply our clinical trials or to successfully produce, store and distribute our products;. •  manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state agencies to ensure strict compliance with cGMPs and other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards, and we do not have control over third-party manufacturers' compliance with these regulations and standards;. •  we may not own, or may have to share, the intellectual property rights to any improvements made by our third-party manufacturers in the manufacturing process for our product candidates; and. •  our third-party manufacturers could breach or terminate their agreement with us.. Each of these risks could delay our clinical trials, the approval, if any, of our product candidates by the FDA or equivalent regulatory agencies outside the U.S., or the commercialization of our product candidates or result in higher costs or deprive us of potential product revenue.  In addition, we rely on third parties to perform release testing on our product candidates prior to delivery to patients.  If these tests are not appropriately conducted and test data are not reliable, patients could be put at risk of serious harm, which could result in product liability suits.. The manufacture of medical products is complex and requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls.  Manufacturers of medical products often encounter difficulties in production, particularly in scaling up and validating initial production and absence of contamination.  These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control, including stability of the product, quality assurance testing, operator error, shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations.  Furthermore, if contaminants are discovered in our supply of our product candidates or in the manufacturing facilities, such manufacturing facilities may need to be closed for an extended period of time to investigate and remedy the contamination.  We cannot be assured that any stability or other issues relating to the manufacture of our product candidates will not occur in the future.  Additionally, our manufacturers may experience manufacturing difficulties due to resource constraints or as a result of labor disputes or unstable political environments.  If our manufacturers were to encounter any of these difficulties, or otherwise fail to comply with their contractual obligations, our ability to provide our product candidates to patients in clinical trials would be jeopardized.  Any delay or interruption in the supply of clinical trial supplies could delay the completion of clinical trials, increase the costs associated with maintaining clinical trial programs and, depending upon the period of delay, require us to commence new clinical trials at additional expense or terminate clinical trials completely.. We may be unable to realize the potential benefits of any collaboration.. We have multi-target research and development collaborations ongoing with Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (a wholly owned subsidiary of Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Ltd) and seek to collaborate with other partners in the future. Even if we are successful in entering into one or more additional collaborations with respect to the development and/or commercialization of one or more product candidates, there is no guarantee that any of these collaborations will be successful.  Collaborations may pose a number of risks, including:. •  collaborators often have significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that they will apply to the collaboration, and may not commit sufficient resources to the development, marketing or commercialization of the product or products that are subject to the collaboration;. •  collaborators may not perform their obligations as expected;. 61. •  any such collaboration may significantly limit our share of potential future profits from the associated program, and may require us to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our current product candidates, potential products or proprietary technologies or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us;. •  collaborators may cease to devote resources to the development or commercialization of our product candidates if the collaborators view our product candidates as competitive with their own products or product candidates;. •  disagreements with collaborators, including disagreements over proprietary rights, contract interpretation or the course of development, might cause delays or termination of the development or commercialization of product candidates, and might result in legal proceedings, which would be time consuming, distracting and expensive;. •  collaborators may be impacted by changes in their strategic focus or available funding, or business combinations involving them, which could cause them to divert resources away from the collaboration;. •  collaborators may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may expose us to litigation and potential liability;. •  the collaborations may not result in us achieving revenues sufficient to justify such transactions; and. •  collaborations may be terminated and, if terminated, may result in a need for us to raise additional capital to pursue further development or commercialization of the applicable product candidate.. As a result, a collaboration may not result in the successful development or commercialization of our product candidates.. We enter into various contracts in the normal course of our business in which we indemnify the other party to the contract.  In the event we have to perform under these indemnification provisions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In the normal course of business, we have and expect to continue periodically to enter into academic, commercial, service, collaboration, licensing, consulting and other agreements that contain indemnification provisions.  With respect to our academic and other research agreements, we typically indemnify the institution and related parties from losses arising from claims relating to our product candidates, processes or services made, used, or performed pursuant to the agreements, and from claims arising from our or our sublicensees' exercise of rights under the agreement.  With respect to our collaboration agreements, we indemnify our collaborators from any third-party product liability claims that could result from the production or use of the product candidate, as well as for alleged infringements of any patent or other intellectual property right owned by a third party.  With respect to consultants, we often indemnify them from claims arising from the good faith performance of their services.. If our obligations under an indemnification provision exceed applicable insurance coverage or if we were denied insurance coverage, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.  Similarly, if we are relying on a collaborator to indemnify us and the collaborator is denied insurance coverage or the indemnification obligation exceeds the applicable insurance coverage, and if the collaborator does not have other assets available to indemnify us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Risks Related to Commercialization of Our Product Candidates. We currently have limited marketing and sales experience.  If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell our product candidates, we may be unable to generate any revenue.. Although some of our employees may have marketed, launched and sold other pharmaceutical products in the past while employed at other companies, we have no experience selling and marketing our product candidates, and we currently have no marketing or sales organization.  To successfully commercialize any products that may result from our development programs, we will need to find one or more collaborators to commercialize our products or invest in and develop these capabilities, either on our own or with others, which would be expensive, difficult and. 62. time consuming.  Any failure or delay in the timely development of our internal commercialization capabilities could adversely impact the potential for success of our products.. If commercialization collaborators do not commit sufficient resources to commercialize our future products and we are unable to develop the necessary marketing and sales capabilities on our own, we will be unable to generate sufficient product revenue to sustain or grow our business.  We may be competing with companies that currently have extensive and well-funded marketing and sales operations, particularly in the markets our product candidates are intended to address.  Without appropriate capabilities, whether directly or through third-party collaborators, we may be unable to compete successfully against these more established companies.. We may attempt to form collaborations in the future with respect to our product candidates, but we may not be able to do so, which may cause us to alter our development and commercialization plans.. We may attempt to form strategic collaborations, create joint ventures or enter into licensing arrangements with third parties with respect to our programs that we believe will complement or augment our existing business.  We may face significant competition in seeking appropriate strategic collaborators, and the negotiation process to secure appropriate terms is time consuming and complex.  We may not be successful in our efforts to establish such a strategic collaboration for any product candidates and programs on terms that are acceptable to it, or at all.  This may be because our product candidates and programs may be deemed to be at too early of a stage of development for collaborative effort, our research and development pipeline may be viewed as insufficient, the competitive or intellectual property landscape may be viewed as too intense or risky, and/or third parties may not view our product candidates and programs as having sufficient potential for commercialization, including the likelihood of an adequate safety and efficacy profile.. Any delays in identifying suitable collaborators and entering into agreements to develop and/or commercialize our product candidates could delay the development or commercialization of our product candidates, which may reduce their competitiveness even if they reach the market.  Absent a strategic collaborator, we would need to undertake development and/or commercialization activities at our own expense.  If we elect to fund and undertake development and/or commercialization activities on our own, we may need to obtain additional expertise and additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all.  If we are unable to do so, we may not be able to develop our product candidates or bring them to market and our business may be materially and adversely affected.. If the market opportunities for our product candidates are smaller than we believe they are, we may not meet our revenue expectations and, assuming approval of a product candidate, our business may suffer.  Because the patient populations in the market for our product candidates may be small, we must be able to successfully identify patients and acquire a significant market share to achieve profitability and growth.. Our estimates for the addressable patient population and our estimates for the prices we can charge for our product candidates may differ significantly from the actual market addressable by our product candidates.  For instance, our Phase I clinical trial of MT-3724 is focused on non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.  The estimated incidence of non-Hodgkin's B-cell lymphoma is 72,240 new cases and approximately 20,140 deaths were attributable to the disease in the United States in 2017, only a subset of which may benefit from treatment with MT-3724.  Our projections of both the number of people who have these diseases, as well as the subset of people with these diseases who have the potential to benefit from treatment with our product candidates, are based on our beliefs and estimates.  These estimates have been derived from a variety of sources, including the scientific literature, patient foundations or market research, and may prove to be incorrect.  Further, new studies may change the estimated incidence or prevalence of these diseases.  The number of patients may turn out to be lower than expected.  Additionally, while we believe that the data in our Phase I clinical trials for MT-3724 are supportive of application to other indications, there can be no assurance that our clinical trials will successfully address any additional indications.  Likewise, the potentially addressable patient population for each of our product candidates may be limited or may not be amenable to treatment with our product candidates, and new patients may become increasingly difficult to identify or gain access to, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. 63. We face substantial competition and our competitors may discover, develop or commercialize products faster or more successfully than us.. The development and commercialization of new drug products is highly competitive.  We face competition from major pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, universities and other research institutions worldwide with respect to MT-3724 and the other product candidates that we may seek to develop or commercialize in the future.  We are aware that the following companies have therapeutics marketed or in development that could compete with ETBs: Roche, Genentech, Bayer, Takeda, AbbVie, Celgene, Seattle Genetics, Immunogen, Morphosys, Genmab, Bristol Myers Squibb, Novartis, Regeneron, Janssen, Xencor, Amgen, Macrogenics, Astra Zeneca, Lilly, Merck KGaA, Pfizer, Merus, Sanofi, Mentrik Biotech, Merrimack Pharmaceuticals, Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Unum Therapeutics, Daiichi Sankyo, Karyopharm,and F-Star.  Our competitors may succeed in developing, acquiring or licensing technologies and drug products that are more effective or less costly than MT-3724 or any other product candidates that we are currently developing or that we may develop, which could render our product candidates obsolete and noncompetitive.. Many of our competitors have materially greater name recognition and financial, manufacturing, marketing, research and drug development resources than we do.  Additional mergers and acquisitions in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries may result in even more resources being concentrated in our competitors.  Large pharmaceutical companies in particular have extensive expertise in preclinical and clinical testing and in obtaining regulatory approvals for drugs, including biologics.  In addition, academic institutions, government agencies, and other public and private organizations conducting research may seek patent protection with respect to potentially competitive products or technologies.  These organizations may also establish exclusive collaborative or licensing relationships with our competitors.. If our competitors obtain marketing approval from the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities for their product candidates more rapidly than we do, it could result in our competitors establishing a strong market position before we are able to enter the market.  Third-party payors, including governmental and private insurers, also may encourage the use of generic products.  For example, if MT-3724 is ultimately approved, it may be priced at a significant premium over other competitive products.  This may make it difficult for MT-3724 or any other future products to compete with these products.  Failure of MT-3724 or other product candidates to effectively compete against established treatment options or in the future with new products currently in development would harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. The commercial success of any of our current or future product candidates will depend upon the degree of market acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payors, and others in the medical community.. Even with the approvals from the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities, the commercial success of our products will depend in part on the health care providers, patients and third-party payors accepting our product candidates as medically useful, cost-effective and safe.  Any product that we bring to the market may not gain market acceptance by physicians, patients and third-party payors.  The degree of market acceptance of any of our products will depend on a number of factors, including but not limited to:. •  the efficacy of the product as demonstrated in clinical trials and potential advantages over competing treatments;. •  the prevalence and severity of the disease and any side effects;. •  the clinical indications for which approval is granted, including any limitations or warnings contained in a product's approved labeling;. •  the convenience and ease of administration;. •  the cost of treatment;. •  the willingness of the patients and physicians to accept these therapies;. •  the perceived ratio of risk and benefit of these therapies by physicians and the willingness of physicians to recommend these therapies to patients based on such risks and benefits;. 64. •  the marketing, sales and distribution support for the product;. •  the publicity concerning our products or competing products and treatments; and. •  the pricing and availability of third-party insurance coverage and reimbursement.. Even if a product displays a favorable efficacy and safety profile upon approval, market acceptance of the product remains uncertain.  Efforts to educate the medical community and third-party payors on the benefits of the products may require significant investment and resources and may never be successful.  If our products fail to achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payors and other health care providers, we will not be able to generate sufficient revenue to become or remain profitable.. We may not be successful in any efforts to identify, license, discover, develop or commercialize additional product candidates.. Although a substantial amount of our effort will focus on the continued clinical testing, potential approval and commercialization of our existing product candidates, the success of our business is also expected to depend in part upon our ability to identify, license, discover, develop or commercialize additional product candidates.  Research programs to identify new product candidates require substantial technical, financial and human resources.  We may focus our efforts and resources on potential programs or product candidates that ultimately prove to be unsuccessful.  Our research programs or licensing efforts may fail to yield additional product candidates for clinical development and commercialization for a number of reasons, including but not limited to the following:. •  our research or business development methodology or search criteria and process may be unsuccessful in identifying potential product candidates;. •  we may not be able or willing to assemble sufficient resources to acquire or discover additional product candidates;. •  our product candidates may not succeed in preclinical or clinical testing;. •  our potential product candidates may be shown to have harmful side effects or may have other characteristics that may make the products unmarketable or unlikely to receive marketing approval;. •  competitors may develop alternatives that render our product candidates obsolete or less attractive;. •  product candidates we develop may be covered by third parties' patents or other exclusive rights;. •  the market for a product candidate may change during our program so that such a product may become unreasonable to continue to develop;. •  a product candidate may not be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at an acceptable cost, or at all; and. •  a product candidate may not be accepted as safe and effective by patients, the medical community or third-party payors.. If any of these events occur, we may be forced to abandon our development efforts for a program or programs, or we may not be able to identify, license, discover, develop or commercialize additional product candidates, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and could potentially cause us to cease operations.. Failure to obtain or maintain adequate reimbursement or insurance coverage for products, if any, could limit our ability to market those products and decrease our ability to generate revenue.. The pricing, coverage, and reimbursement of our approved products, if any, must be sufficient to support our commercial efforts and other development programs, and the availability and adequacy of coverage and reimbursement by third-party payors, including governmental and private insurers, are essential for most patients to be able to afford expensive treatments.  Sales of our approved products, if any, will depend substantially, both domestically and abroad, on the extent to which the costs of our approved products, if any, will be paid for or. 65. reimbursed by health maintenance, managed care, pharmacy benefit and similar healthcare management organizations, or government payors and private payors.  If coverage and reimbursement are not available, or are available only in limited amounts, we may have to subsidize or provide products for free or we may not be able to successfully commercialize our products.. In addition, there is significant uncertainty related to the insurance coverage and reimbursement for newly approved products.  In the United States, the principal decisions about coverage and reimbursement for new drugs are typically made by the CMS, an agency within the U.S.  Department of Health and Human Services, as CMS decides whether and to what extent a new drug will be covered and reimbursed under Medicare.  Private payors tend to follow the coverage reimbursement policies established by CMS to a substantial degree.  It is difficult to predict what CMS will decide with respect to reimbursement for novel product candidates such as ours and what reimbursement codes our product candidates may receive if approved.. Outside the United States, international operations are generally subject to extensive governmental price controls and other price-restrictive regulations, and we believe the increasing emphasis on cost-containment initiatives in Europe, Canada and other countries has and will continue to put pressure on the pricing and usage of products.  In many countries, the prices of products are subject to varying price control mechanisms as part of national health systems.  Price controls or other changes in pricing regulation could restrict the amount that we are able to charge for our products, if any.  Accordingly, in markets outside the United States, the potential revenue may be insufficient to generate commercially reasonable revenue and profits.. Moreover, increasing efforts by governmental and private payors in the United States and abroad to limit or reduce healthcare costs may result in restrictions on coverage and the level of reimbursement for new products and, as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our products.  We expect to experience pricing pressures in connection with products due to the increasing trend toward managed healthcare, including the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations and additional legislative changes.  The downward pressure on healthcare costs in general, and prescription drugs in particular, has and is expected to continue to increase in the future.  As a result, profitability of our products, if any, may be more difficult to achieve even if they receive regulatory approval.. Risks Related to Our Business Operations. Our future success depends in part on our ability to retain our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Scientific Officer and to attract, retain, and motivate other qualified personnel.. We are highly dependent on Eric E. Poma, Ph.D., our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Scientific Officer, the loss of whose services may adversely impact the achievement of our objectives.  Dr. Poma could leave our employment at any time, as he is an \"at will\" employee.  Recruiting and retaining other qualified employees, consultants and advisors for our business, including scientific and technical personnel, will also be crucial to our success.  There is currently a shortage of highly qualified personnel in our industry, which is likely to continue.  Additionally, this shortage of highly qualified personnel is particularly acute in the area where we are located.  As a result, competition for personnel is intense and the turnover rate can be high.  We may not be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms given the competition among numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for individuals with similar skill sets.  In addition, failure to succeed in development and commercialization of our product candidates may make it more challenging to recruit and retain qualified personnel.  The inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel, or the loss of the services of Dr.  Poma may impede the progress of our research, development and commercialization objectives and would negatively impact our ability to succeed in our product development strategy.. We will need to expand our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing this growth, which could disrupt our operations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had 38 full-time employees.  As our development and commercialization plans and strategies develop, we expect to need additional managerial, operational, sales, marketing, financial, legal and other resources.  Our management may need to divert a disproportionate amount of its attention away from its day-to-day activities and devote a substantial amount of time to managing these growth activities.  We may not be able. 66. to effectively manage the expansion of our operations, which may result in weaknesses in our infrastructure, operational mistakes, loss of business opportunities, loss of employees and reduced productivity among remaining employees.  Our expected growth could require significant capital expenditures and may divert financial resources from other projects, such as the development of additional product candidates.  If our management is unable to effectively manage our growth, our expenses may increase more than expected, our ability to generate and/or grow revenue could be reduced and we may not be able to implement our business strategy.  Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize product candidates and compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage any future growth.. Failure in our information technology and storage systems could significantly disrupt the operation of our business.. Our ability to execute our business plan and maintain operations depends on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our information technology, or IT, systems.  IT systems are vulnerable to risks and damages from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, malicious human acts and natural disasters.  Moreover, despite network security and back-up measures, some of our and our vendors' servers are potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, including cyber-attacks, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems.  These events could lead to the unauthorized access, disclosure and use of non-public information.  The techniques used by criminal elements to attack computer systems are sophisticated, change frequently and may originate from less regulated and remote areas of the world.  As a result, we may not be able to address these techniques proactively or implement adequate preventative measures.  If our computer systems are compromised, we could be subject to fines, damages, reputational harm, litigation and enforcement actions, and we could lose trade secrets, the occurrence of which could harm our business.  For example, the loss of data from completed clinical trials for our product candidates could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs.  Despite precautionary measures to prevent unanticipated problems that could affect our IT systems, sustained or repeated system failures that interrupt our ability to generate and maintain data could adversely affect our ability to operate our business."
