[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. <U+FEFF>. In addition to the risks discussed elsewhere in this annual report, the following are the important factors that could cause Monro's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward looking statements:. <U+FEFF>. We operate in the highly competitive automotive repair industry.. <U+FEFF>. The automotive repair industry in which we operate is generally highly competitive and fragmented, and the number, size and strength of our competitors varies widely from region to region.  We believe that competition in the industry is based primarily on customer service, reputation, store location, name awareness and price.  Our primary competitors include national and regional undercar, tire specialty and general automotive service chains, both franchised and company-operated, car dealerships, mass merchandisers operating service centers and, to a lesser extent, gas stations, independent garages and Internet tire sellers.  Some of our competitors have greater financial resources, are more geographically diverse and have better name recognition than we do, which might place us at a competitive disadvantage to those competitors.  Because we seek to offer competitive prices, if our competitors reduce prices, we may be forced to reduce our prices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Further, our success within this industry also depends upon our ability to respond in a timely manner to changes in customer demands for both products and services.  We cannot assure that we, or any of our stores, will be able to compete effectively.  If we are unable to compete successfully in new and existing markets, we may not achieve our projected revenue and profitability targets.. <U+FEFF>. We are subject to seasonality and cycles in the general economy and customers' use of vehicles, which may impact demand for our products and services.. <U+FEFF>. Although our business is not highly seasonal, our customers typically purchase more undercar services during the period of March through October than the period of November through February, when miles driven tend to be lower. Further, customers may defer or forego vehicle maintenance at any time during periods of inclement weather. In the tire stores, the better sales months are typically May through August, and October through December. The slowest months are typically January through April and September. As a result, profitability is typically lower during slower sales months or months where mix is more heavily weighted toward tires, which is a lower margin category.. <U+FEFF>. Additionally, for our stores located in the northeastern and midwestern United States, profitability tends to be lower in the winter months when certain costs, such as utilities and snow plowing, are typically higher.  Sales can also be volatile in these areas in reaction to warm weather in winter months or severe weather, which can result in store closures.. <U+FEFF>. We purchase products such as oil and tires, which are subject to cost variations related to commodity costs.  If we cannot pass along cost increases, our profitability would be negatively impacted.. <U+FEFF>. Further, our industry is influenced by the number of miles driven by automobile owners.  Factors that may cause the number of miles driven by automobile owners to decrease include the weather, travel patterns, gas prices and, as discussed above, fluctuations in the general economy.  Should a significant reduction in the number of miles driven by automobile owners occur, it would likely have an adverse effect on the demand for our products and services. For example, when the retail cost of gasoline increases, the number of miles driven by automobile owners may decrease, which could result in less frequent service intervals and fewer repairs.  Accordingly, a significant reduction in the number of miles driven by automobile owners could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. 12. Table of Contents. <U+FEFF>. Changes in economic conditions that impact consumer spending could harm our business.. <U+FEFF>. The automotive repair industry and our financial performance are sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions that impact consumer spending.  Future economic conditions affecting consumer income such as employment levels, business conditions, interest rates, and tax rates could reduce consumer spending or cause consumers to shift their spending to other products.  During periods of good economic conditions, consumers may decide to purchase new vehicles rather than servicing their older vehicles.  A general reduction in the level of consumer spending or shifts in consumer spending to other services could have a material adverse effect on our growth, sales and profitability.. <U+FEFF>. We depend on our relationships with our vendors, including foreign sources, for certain inventory.  Our business may be negatively affected by the risks associated with such relationships and international trade.. <U+FEFF>. We depend on close relationships with our vendors for parts, tires and supplies and for our ability to purchase products at competitive prices and terms.  Our ability to purchase at competitive prices and terms results from the volume of our purchases from these vendors.  We have entered into various contracts with parts suppliers that require us to buy from them (at market competitive prices) up to 100% of our annual purchases of specific products.  These agreements expire at various dates.. <U+FEFF>. We believe that alternative sources exist for most of the products we sell or use at our stores, and we would not expect the loss of any one supplier to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  Our dependence on a small number of suppliers, however, subjects us to the risks of shortages and interruptions.  If any of our suppliers do not perform adequately or otherwise fail to distribute parts or other supplies to our stores, our inability to replace the suppliers in a timely manner and on acceptable terms could increase our costs and could cause shortages or interruptions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. In addition, we depend on a number of products (e.g. brake parts, tires, oil filters) produced in foreign markets. The U.S. government has made proposals or indicated that it intends to take actions intended to address trade imbalances, which include encouraging increased production in the United States. These proposals could result in increased customs duties and the renegotiation of certain U.S. trade agreements, which in turn could cause an increase in the prices we pay for certain of the products we sell. Any changes in U.S. trade policies which result in increased costs which we are not able to offset with pricing increases of our own could adversely affect our financial performance.. <U+FEFF>. We also face other risks associated with the delivery of inventory originating outside the United States, including:. <U+FEFF>.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpotential economic and political instability in countries where our suppliers are located;. <U+FEFF>.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreases in shipping costs;. <U+FEFF>.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ttransportation delays and interruptions;. <U+FEFF>.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcompliance with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or making other prohibited payments to foreign officials; and. <U+FEFF>.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsignificant fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies.. <U+FEFF>. Our industry is subject to environmental, consumer protection and other regulation.. <U+FEFF>. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws, building and zoning requirements, employment and labor laws and other governmental regulations regarding the operation of our business.  For example, we are subject to rules governing the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous substances contained in some of the products such as motor oil that we sell and use at our stores, the recycling of batteries, tires and used lubricants, and the ownership and operation of real property.  These laws and regulations can impose fines and criminal sanctions for violations as well as require the installation of pollution control equipment or operational changes to decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases.  Accordingly, we could become subject to material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as a result of exposure to, or release of, hazardous substances.  In addition, stricter interpretation of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. 13. Table of Contents. National automotive repair chains have also been the subject of investigations and reports by consumer protection agencies and the Attorneys General of various states.  Publicity in connection with these kinds of investigations could have an adverse effect on our sales and, consequently, our business, financial condition and results of operations.  State and local governments have also enacted numerous consumer protection laws with which we must comply.. <U+FEFF>. The costs of operating our stores may increase if there are changes in laws governing minimum hourly wages, working conditions, overtime, workers' compensation and health insurance rates, unemployment tax rates or other laws and regulations.  A material increase in these costs that we were unable to offset by increasing our prices or by other means could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. We are involved in litigation from time to time arising from the operation of our business and, as such, we could incur substantial judgments, fines, legal fees or other costs.. <U+FEFF>. We are sometimes the subject of complaints or litigation from customers, employees or other third parties for various actions.  From time to time, we are involved in litigation involving claims related to, among other things, breach of contract, negligence, tortious conduct and employment and labor law matters, including payment of wages.  The damages sought against us in some of these litigation proceedings could be substantial.  Although we maintain liability insurance for some litigation claims, if one or more of the claims were to greatly exceed our insurance coverage limits or if our insurance policies do not cover a claim, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. <U+FEFF>. Business interruptions may negatively impact our store operations, availability of products and/or the operability of our computer systems, which may have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations.  A breach of our computer systems could damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. If any of our locations in a particular region are unexpectedly closed permanently or for a period of time, it could have a negative impact on our business.  Such closures could occur as a result of circumstances out of our control, including war, acts of terrorism, extreme weather conditions and other natural disasters.  Further, if our ability to obtain products and merchandise for use in our stores is impeded, it could have a negative impact on our business.  Factors that could negatively affect our ability to obtain products and merchandise include the sudden inability to import goods into the United States, for any reason and the curtailment or delay of commercial transportation. While we do maintain business interruption insurance, there is no guarantee that we will be able to use such insurance for any particular location closure or other interruption in operations.. <U+FEFF>. Additionally, given the number of individual transactions we process each year,  it is critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware and software systems. Our systems could be subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, including breaches of our transaction processing or other systems that result in the compromise of confidential customer data, catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our employees. If our systems are breached, damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim, we may face costly litigation, and our reputation with our customers may be harmed.  The risk of disruption is increased in periods where complex and significant systems changes are undertaken.  Any material interruption in our computer operations may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. If we experience a data security breach and confidential customer or employee information is disclosed, we may be subject to penalties and experience negative publicity, which could affect our customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on our business.  We may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize these cyber security risks.. <U+FEFF>. The nature of our business involves the receipt and storage of personally identifiable data of our customers and employees.  This type of data is subject to legislation and regulation in various jurisdictions. Data security breaches suffered by well-known companies and institutions have attracted a substantial amount of media attention, prompting state and federal legislative proposals addressing data privacy and security. We may become exposed to potential liabilities with respect to the data that we collect, manage and process, and may incur legal costs if our information security policies and procedures are not effective or if we are required to defend our methods of collection, processing and storage of personal data. Future investigations, lawsuits or adverse publicity relating to our methods of handling personal data could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows due to the costs and negative market reaction relating to such developments.. <U+FEFF>. 14. Table of Contents. We may not have the resources or technical expertise to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber-attacks. Attacks may be targeted at us, our customers, or others who have entrusted us with information. Actual or anticipated attacks may cause us to incur increased costs, including costs to hire additional personnel, purchase additional protection technologies, train employees, and engage third-party experts and consultants. In addition, data and security breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues, including breach by us or by persons with whom we have commercial relationships that result in the unauthorized release of personal or confidential information. Any compromise or breach of our security could result in violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our reputation.. <U+FEFF>. Our business is affected by advances in automotive technology.. <U+FEFF>. The demand for our products and services could be adversely affected by continuing developments in automotive technology.  Automotive manufacturers are producing cars that last longer and require service and maintenance at less frequent intervals in certain cases.  Quality improvement of manufacturers' original equipment parts has in the past reduced, and may in the future reduce, demand for our products and services, adversely affecting our sales.  For example, manufacturers' use of stainless steel exhaust components has significantly increased the life of those parts, thereby decreasing the demand for exhaust repairs and replacements.  Longer and more comprehensive warranty or service programs offered by automobile manufacturers and other third parties also could adversely affect the demand for our products and services.  We believe that a majority of new automobile owners have their cars serviced by a dealer during the period that the car is under warranty.  In addition, advances in automotive technology continue to require us to incur additional costs to update our diagnostic capabilities and technical training programs.  Changes in vehicle and powertrain technology and advances in autonomous vehicles and mobility could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations or investors' perception of our business, any of which could have an adverse effect upon the price of our common stock.. <U+FEFF>. We may not be successful in integrating new and acquired stores.. <U+FEFF>. Management believes that our continued growth in sales and profit is dependent, in large part, upon our ability to open/acquire and operate new stores on a profitable basis.  In order to do so, we must find reasonably priced new store locations and acquisition candidates that meet our criteria and we must integrate any new stores (opened or acquired) into our system.  Our growth and profitability could be adversely affected if we are unable to open or acquire new stores or if new or existing stores do not operate at a sufficient level of profitability.  If new stores do not achieve expected levels of profitability, this may adversely impact our ability to remain in compliance with our debt covenants or to make required payments under our credit facility.. <U+FEFF>. Any impairment of goodwill, other intangible assets or long-lived assets could negatively impact our results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Our goodwill, other intangible assets or long-lived assets, are subject to an impairment test on an annual basis and are also tested whenever events and circumstances indicate that goodwill, intangible assets and/or long-lived assets may be impaired.  Any excess goodwill resulting from the impairment test must be written off in the period of determination.  Intangible assets (other than goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets) and other long-lived assets are generally amortized or depreciated over the useful life of such assets.  In addition, from time to time, we may acquire or make an investment in a business that will require us to record goodwill based on the purchase price and the value of the acquired tangible and intangible assets.  We have significantly increased our goodwill as a result of our acquisitions.  We may subsequently experience unforeseen issues with the businesses we acquire, which may adversely affect the anticipated returns of the business or value of the intangible assets and trigger an evaluation of recoverability of the recorded goodwill and intangible assets.  Future determinations of significant write-offs of goodwill, intangible assets or other long-lived assets, as a result of an impairment test or any accelerated amortization or depreciation of other intangible assets or other long-lived assets could have a material negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition.  We have completed our annual impairment test for goodwill, and have concluded that we do not have any impairment of goodwill for the year ended March 31, 2018.. <U+FEFF>. Store closings result in acceleration of costs.. <U+FEFF>. From time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we close certain stores, generally based on considerations of store profitability, competition, strategic factors and other considerations.  Closing a store could subject us to costs including the write-down of leasehold improvements, equipment, furniture and fixtures.  In addition, we could remain liable for future lease obligations.. <U+FEFF>. 15. Table of Contents. We rely on an adequate supply of skilled field personnel.. <U+FEFF>. In order to continue to provide high quality services, we require an adequate supply of skilled field managers and technicians.  Trained and experienced automotive field personnel are in high demand, and may be in short supply in some areas.  We cannot assure that we will be able to attract, motivate and maintain an adequate skilled workforce necessary to operate our existing and future stores efficiently, or that labor expenses will not increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of skilled field personnel, thereby adversely impacting our financial performance.  While the automotive repair industry generally operates with high field employee turnover, any material increases in employee turnover rates in our stores or any widespread employee dissatisfaction could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from our operations, our liquidity will suffer and we may be unable to satisfy our obligations.. <U+FEFF>. We currently rely on cash flow from operations and our Revolving Credit Facility to fund our business.  Amounts outstanding on the Revolving Credit Facility are reported as debt on our balance sheet.  While we believe that we have the ability to sufficiently fund our planned operations and capital expenditures for the foreseeable future, various risks to our business could result in circumstances that would materially affect our liquidity.  For example, cash flows from our operations could be affected by changes in consumer spending habits, the failure to maintain favorable vendor payment terms or our inability to successfully implement sales growth initiatives, among other factors.  We may be unsuccessful in securing alternative financing when needed on terms that we consider acceptable.. <U+FEFF>. In addition, a significant increase in our leverage could have the following risks:. <U+FEFF>.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, store renovations, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired in the future;. <U+FEFF>.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants governing our debt, which, among other things, require us to comply with certain financial ratios and limit our ability to incur additional debt and sell assets, could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations; and. <U+FEFF>.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour exposure to certain financial market risks, including fluctuations in interest rates associated with bank borrowings could become more significant.. <U+FEFF>. Although we believe that we will remain in compliance with our debt covenants, if we are not able to do so our lenders may restrict our ability to draw on our Revolving Credit Facility, which could have a negative impact on our operations and growth potential.. <U+FEFF>. We depend on the services of our key executives.. <U+FEFF>. Our senior executives are important to our success because they have been instrumental in setting our strategic direction, operating our business, identifying, recruiting and training key personnel, identifying expansion opportunities and arranging necessary financing.  Losing the services of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business until a suitable replacement is found.  It may be difficult to replace them quickly with executives of comparable experience and capabilities.  Although we have employment agreements with certain of our executives, we cannot prevent them from terminating their employment with us.. <U+FEFF>. New accounting guidance or changes in the interpretation or application of existing accounting guidance could affect our financial performance adversely.. <U+FEFF>. New accounting guidance may require systems and other changes that could increase our operating costs and/or change our financial statements.  For example, implementing accounting guidance related to leases will likely require us to make significant changes to our lease management system or other accounting systems, and will likely result in changes to our financial statements.  Additionally, implementing accounting guidance related to leases will likely impact certain performance metrics and financial ratios.. <U+FEFF>. Unanticipated changes in the interpretation or application of existing accounting guidance could result in material charges or restatements of our financial statements, which may further result in litigation or regulatory actions which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. 16. Table of Contents. The effects of the Tax Act on our business have not yet been fully analyzed and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. On December 22, 2017, U.S. President Donald Trump signed into law the Tax Act.  The Tax Act made broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code, including, but not limited to reducing the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%. Notwithstanding the reduction in the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the Tax Act and our ongoing analysis thereof, is uncertain and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected due to anticipated guidance from the Internal Revenue Service about implementing the Tax Act and the potential for additional guidance from the Securities and Exchange Commission or the Financial Accounting Standards Board related to the Tax Act.  Given that guidance may still be forthcoming, no assurance can be made that future guidance will not adversely affect our business or financial condition.. <U+FEFF>. The market price of our common stock may be volatile and could expose us to shareholder action including securities class action litigation.. <U+FEFF>. The stock market and the price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations based upon general economic and market conditions.  Downturns in the stock market may cause the price of our common stock to decline.  The market price of our stock may also be affected by our ability to meet analysts' expectations.  Failure to meet such expectations, even slightly, could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock.  In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, shareholder action including securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such a company.  If similar litigation were instituted against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources, which could have an adverse effect on our business.. <U+FEFF>"
