[1] "ITEM 1A.       RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information in this report, you should carefully consider the following risks. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and/or operating results could be materially adversely affected. The risk factors summarized below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results.. The Company and TCCC have extensive commercial arrangements and, as a result, the Company's future performance is substantially dependent on the success of its relationship with TCCC.. In connection with the TCCC Transaction and the accompanying amended distribution coordination agreements entered into with TCCC, we have transitioned third parties' rights to distribute the Company's products in most territories in the U.S. to members of TCCC's distribution network, which largely consists of independent bottlers/distributors. In addition, TCCC has become our preferred distribution partner globally with members of TCCC's network distributing our products internationally in countries throughout, but not limited to, Africa, Asia, Canada, Central and South America, Europe, Mexico and the Middle East. As we continue our international expansion, TCCC's distribution network will continue its role as our preferred distribution partner globally. As a result, we have reduced our distributor diversification and are now substantially dependent on TCCC's domestic and international distribution platforms.. Also in connection with the TCCC Transaction, TCCC made a substantial equity investment in the Company and has agreed, subject to certain exceptions, not to compete in the energy drink category in Europe through June 2018 and in certain other territories through June 2020. While we believe that this will incentivize TCCC to take steps to assure that our products receive the appropriate attention in the TCCC distribution system, there can be no assurance of this as TCCC is a much larger company with many strategic priorities. In addition, TCCC does not control all members of its distribution system, many of which are independent companies that make their own business decisions that may not always align with TCCC's interests. Moreover, it is also possible that we may fail to recognize the expected benefits of the new distribution arrangements regardless of TCCC's priorities or the priorities of the members of TCCC's distribution system. In any such case, our operating results could suffer and the value of the Company's common shares could be adversely affected.. We derive virtually all of our revenues from energy drinks, and competitive pressure in the energy drink category could adversely affect our business and operating results.. Our focus is in the energy drink category, and our business is vulnerable to adverse changes impacting the energy drink category and business, which could adversely impact our business and the trading price of our common stock.. Virtually all of our sales are derived from our energy drinks, including our Monster Energy® brand energy drinks and our Strategic Brands acquired from TCCC in 2015. Our Monster Energy® brand energy drinks and Strategic Brands represented 90.1% and 8.9% of net sales, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2017. Any decrease in the sales of our Monster Energy® brand and other energy drinks could significantly adversely affect our future revenues and net income. Historically, we have experienced substantial competition from new entrants in the energy drink category as well as from the energy shot category. Domestically, our energy drinks compete directly with Red Bull, Rockstar, Amp, Venom, VPX Redline, Xenergy, MiO Energy, Rip It, Starbucks Double Shot, Starbucks Double Shot Energy Plus Coffee, Rockstar Roasted, 5-Hour Energy Shots, Stacker 2, VPX Bang, V8+ Energy, Uptime, hi*ball and many other brands.  In addition, certain large companies, such as PepsiCo, market and/or distribute products in that market segment, such as Pepsi Max, Mountain Dew and Mountain Dew Kickstart. Internationally, our energy drinks compete with Red Bull, Rockstar, V-Energy, Lucozade and. 19. Table of Contents. numerous local and private-label brands that usually differ from country to country, such as Hell, Shock, Tiger, Boost, Speed, TNT, Shark, Hot 6, Shark Energy, Dragon, Score, Sting, Battery, Bullit, Flash Up, Black, Non-Stop, Bomba, Semtex, Vive 100, Dark Dog, Speed, Guaraná, M-150, Lipovitan, Bacchus, Bolt, Mr. Big, Boom, Raptor, Amp, Fusion, Hi-Tiger, Eastroc Super Drink, Carabao, Powerhouse, XL, Crazy Tiger, Effect, Missile and a host of other international brands. Our Java Monster® and Espresso MonsterTM product lines compete directly with Starbucks Frappuccino, Starbucks Double Shot, Starbucks Double Shot Energy Plus Coffee and other Starbucks coffee drinks, Rockstar Roasted, Dunkin Donuts, Gold Peak Tea, Stok, High Brew, hi*ball and International Delight. Our Muscle Monster® product line competes directly with Muscle Milk, Core Power, Premier Protein, Kellogg's Special K Protein, Bolthouse Farms Protein, EAS AdvantEdge, Gatorade G Series 03 Recover, 5-Hour, Power Bar and EAS Myoplex. In addition, our Mutant® Super Soda product line competes directly with Mountain Dew and Mountain Dew Kickstart. Competitive pressures in the energy drink category could impact our revenues, cause price erosion and/or lower market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. The Company, in several markets, owns multiple potentially competing brands in the energy drink category.. The Strategic Brands acquired from TCCC in 2015 represented 8.9% of consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2017. In several markets our Monster Energy® brand energy drinks and Strategic Brands compete with each other. Although we continue to integrate the Strategic Brands with our broader energy drink portfolio, we may encounter difficulties managing different and potentially competing brands in such shared markets, which could adversely impact our business and results of operations.. TCCC is a significant shareholder of the Company and may have interests that are different from the Company's other shareholders (including current shareholders of the Company).. As of February 12, 2018, TCCC owned common shares of the Company representing approximately 18% of the total number of the Company's outstanding common shares. TCCC has also nominated two directors to the Company's board of directors. The number of directors that TCCC is entitled to nominate is subject to reduction in certain circumstances.. TCCC's ownership could also have an effect on the Company's ability to engage in a change in control transaction. TCCC is obligated for a period of time to vote all of its common shares of the Company in excess of 20% of the outstanding common shares in the same proportion as all common shares not owned by TCCC with respect to a proposal for a change of control. However, if TCCC were to oppose such a change-in-control transaction, a bidder would be required to secure the support of holders of 62.5% of the Company's common shares not owned by TCCC (assuming that TCCC increased its ownership to 20% of the Company's common shares) to achieve a vote of a majority of the Company's outstanding shares for a change-in-control transaction. In addition, TCCC would have a bidding advantage if the Company's board of directors were to seek to sell the Company in the future because TCCC would not need to pay a control premium on the shares it owns at such time. TCCC and the Company would also be permitted to terminate TCCC's distribution coordination agreements with the Company after a change in control of the Company. In such event, TCCC would receive a termination fee if TCCC terminated the distribution coordination agreements following a change in control of the Company involving certain TCCC competitors, or if the Company terminated following a change in control of the Company involving any third-party.. The interests of TCCC may be different from or conflict with the interests of the Company's other shareholders and, as a result, TCCC's influence may result in the delay or prevention of potential actions or transactions, including a potential change of management or control of the Company, even if such action or transaction may be beneficial to the Company's other shareholders. Moreover, TCCC's ownership of a significant amount of the Company's outstanding common shares could result in downward pressure on the trading price of the Company's common shares if TCCC were to sell a large portion of its shares (when permitted to sell) or as a result of the perception that such a sale might occur.. 20. Table of Contents. Changes in government regulation, or failure to comply with existing regulations, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Legislation has been proposed and/or adopted at the U.S. federal, state and/or municipal level and proposed and/or adopted in certain foreign jurisdictions to restrict the sale of energy drinks (including, prohibiting the sale of energy drinks at certain establishments or pursuant to certain governmental programs), limit the content of caffeine and other ingredients in beverages, require certain product labeling disclosures and/or warnings, impose excise taxes, limit product size or impose age restrictions for the sale of energy drinks. For a discussion of certain of such legislation, see \"Part I, Item 1  -  Business  -  Government Regulation.\" Furthermore, additional legislation may be introduced in the United States and other countries at the federal, state, local and municipal level in respect of each of the foregoing subject areas.  Public health officials and health advocates are increasingly focused on the public health consequences associated with obesity, especially as it affects children, and are seeking legislative change to reduce the consumption of sweetened beverages.  There also has been an increased focus on caffeine content in beverages. To the extent any such legislation is enacted in one or more jurisdictions where a significant amount of our products are sold individually or in the aggregate, it could result in a reduction in demand for, or availability of, our energy drinks, and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The production, distribution and sale in the United States of many of our products are also currently subject to various federal and state regulations, including, but not limited to: the FD&C Act; the Occupational Safety and Health Act; various environmental statutes; California Proposition 65; and various other federal, state and local statutes and regulations applicable to the production, transportation, sale, safety, advertising, labeling and ingredients of such products. Outside the United States, the production, distribution and sale of many of our products are also subject to numerous statutes and regulations.  If a regulatory authority finds that a current or future product, its label, or a production run is not in compliance with any of these regulations, we may be fined, or such products may have to be recalled, reformulated and/or have the packaging changed, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We cannot predict the effect of inquiries from and/or actions by attorneys general, other government agencies and/or quasi-government agencies into the production, advertising, marketing, promotion, labeling, ingredients, usage and/or sale of our energy drink products.. We are subject to the risks of investigations and/or enforcement actions by state attorneys general and/or other government and/or quasi-governmental agencies relating to the advertising, marketing, promotion, ingredients, usage and/or sale of our energy drinks. For example, in July 2012, we received a subpoena from the New York State Attorney General in connection with an investigation relating to the advertising, marketing, promotion, ingredients, usage and sale of our Monster Energy® brand energy drinks. We cannot predict the outcome of this inquiry and what, if any, effect it may have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If an inquiry by a state attorney general or other government or quasi-government agency finds that our products and/or the advertising, marketing, promotion, ingredients, usage and/or sale of such products are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, we may become subject to fines, product reformulations, container changes, changes in the usage or sale of our energy drink products and/or changes in our advertising, marketing and promotion practices, each of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 21. Table of Contents. In addition, from time to time, government and/or quasi-governmental agencies may investigate the safety of caffeine and energy drinks. For example, in January 2013, the Company received and responded to inquiries from U.S. legislators in response to FDA's investigation into the safety of caffeine in food products, particularly its effects on children and adolescents. These legislators ultimately released a report in January 2015, recommending, inter alia, that the energy drink industry not market to consumers under the age of 18 and not market their products for hydration, and that the FDA develop and release definitions and guidance for this market sector.  In addition, other organizations, such as the European Food Safety Authority, have also published reports, studies, articles and opinions on caffeine and energy drinks.. Litigation regarding our products, and related unfavorable media attention, could expose us to significant liabilities and reduce demand for our products.. We have been and are currently named as a defendant in personal injury lawsuits which allege that consumption of our products has been responsible for wrongful deaths and/or injuries. We do not believe that our products are responsible for such wrongful deaths and/or injuries, and we intend to vigorously defend such lawsuits.. In July 2012, we received a subpoena from the Attorney General for the State of New York in connection with an investigation relating to the advertising, marketing, promotion, ingredients, usage and sale of our Monster Energy® brand energy drinks. On August 6, 2014, the Attorney General for the State of New York issued a second subpoena seeking additional documents and the deposition of a Company employee. We have complied with both subpoenas. We cannot predict the outcome of this inquiry and what, if any, effect it may have on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Several other lawsuits have been filed against us claiming that certain statements made in our advertisements and/or on the labels of our products were false and/or misleading or otherwise not in compliance with food standards under local law, and/or that our products are not safe. Putative class action lawsuits have also recently been filed against certain of our competitors asserting that certain claims in their advertisements amount to false advertising. We do not believe any statements made by us in our promotional materials or set forth on our product labels are false or misleading or noncompliant with local law, or that our products are in any way unsafe and we vigorously defend these lawsuits.. Any of the foregoing matters or other litigation, the threat thereof, or unfavorable media attention arising from pending or threatened product-related litigation could consume significant financial and managerial resources and result in decreased demand for our products, significant monetary awards against us and injury to our reputation.. Criticism of our energy drink products and/or criticism or a negative perception of energy drinks generally, could adversely affect us.. An unfavorable report on the health effects of caffeine, such as those related to obesity, or criticism or negative publicity regarding the caffeine content and/or any other ingredients in our products or energy drinks generally, including product safety concerns, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Articles critical of the caffeine content and/or other ingredients in energy drinks and/or articles indicating certain health risks of energy drinks have been published in recent years. We believe the overall growth of the energy drink market in the U.S. may have been negatively impacted by the ongoing negative publicity and comments that continue to appear in the media questioning the safety of energy drinks, and suggesting limitations on their ingredients (including caffeine), and/or the levels thereof, and/or imposing minimum age restrictions for consumers. In early 2018, certain retailers in the United Kingdom announced the introduction of voluntary retailer measures to prevent the sale of energy drinks to individuals under the age of 16. If reports, studies or articles critical of caffeine and/or energy drinks continue to be published or are published in the future, or additional voluntary measures are taken, they could adversely affect the demand for our products.. 22. Table of Contents. Increased competition could hurt our business.. The beverage industry is highly competitive. The principal areas of competition are pricing, packaging, development of new products, flavors, product positioning as well as promotion and marketing strategies. Our products compete with a wide range of drinks produced by a relatively large number of manufacturers, some of which have substantially greater financial, marketing and distribution resources than we do.. Important factors affecting our ability to compete successfully include the taste and flavor of our products, trade and consumer promotions, rapid and effective development of new and unique cutting edge products, attractive and different packaging, branded product advertising and pricing. Our products compete with all liquid refreshments and in some cases with products of much larger and substantially better financed competitors, including the products of numerous nationally and internationally known producers such as TCCC, PepsiCo, Red Bull Gmbh and the DPS Group. We also compete with companies that are smaller or primarily national or local in operations. Our products also compete with private-label brands such as those carried by grocery store chains, convenience store chains and club stores.. Due to competition in the beverage industry, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter difficulties in maintaining our current revenues, market share or position in the beverage industry. If our revenues decline, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our inability to innovate successfully and to provide new cutting edge products could adversely affect our business and financial results.. Our ability to compete in the highly competitive beverage industry and to achieve our business growth objectives depends, in part, on our ability to develop new flavors, products and packaging. The success of our innovation, in turn, depends on our ability to identify consumer trends and cater to consumer preferences. If we are not successful in our innovation activities, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be adversely affected.. Uncertainty in the financial markets and other adverse changes in general economic or political conditions in any of the major countries in which we do business could adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations.. Global economic uncertainties affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways, making it difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. There can be no assurance that economic improvements will occur, or that they would be sustainable, or that they would enhance conditions in markets relevant to us. In addition, we cannot predict the duration and severity of disruptions in any of our markets or the impact they may have on our customers or business, as our expansion outside of the United States has increased our exposure to any developments or crisis in African, Asian, European and other international markets. If economic conditions deteriorate, our industry, business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Changes in consumer preferences may reduce demand for some of our products.. The beverage industry is subject to changing consumer preferences and shifts in consumer preferences may adversely affect us. There is increasing awareness of and concern for the health consequences of obesity. This may reduce demand for our non-diet beverages, which could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations. Recently, concerns have emerged regarding diet sodas and in particular, aspartame, which is contained in certain of our Strategic Brands energy drinks.. 23. Table of Contents. Consumers are seeking greater variety in their beverages. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our continued ability to develop and introduce different and innovative beverages that appeal to consumers. In order to retain and expand our market share, we must continue to develop and introduce different and innovative beverages and be competitive in the areas of taste, quality and price, although there can be no assurance of our ability to do so. There is no assurance that consumers will continue to purchase our products in the future. Product lifecycles for some beverage brands, products and/or packages may be limited to a few years before consumers' preferences change. The beverages we currently market are in varying stages of their product lifecycles, and there can be no assurance that such beverages will become or remain profitable for us. We may be unable to achieve volume growth through product and packaging initiatives. We may also be unable to penetrate new markets. If our revenues decline, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our continued expansion outside of the United States exposes us to uncertain conditions and other risks in international markets.. We have continued expanding our operations internationally into a variety of new markets, including launches in China and various African and Middle Eastern countries. Our gross sales to customers outside of the United States were approximately 28%, 25% and 23% of consolidated gross sales for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. As our growth strategy includes further expanding our international business, if we are unable to continue to expand distribution of our products outside the United States, our growth rate could be adversely affected. In many international markets, we have limited operating experience and in some areas we have no operating experience. It is costly to establish, develop and maintain international operations and develop and promote our brands in international markets. Our percentage gross profit margins in many international markets are expected to be less than the comparable percentage gross profit margins obtained in the United States. We face and will continue to face substantial risks associated with having foreign operations, including; economic and/or political instability in our international markets; restrictions on or costs relating to the repatriation of foreign profits to the United States, including possible taxes and/or withholding obligations on any repatriations; and tariffs and/or trade restrictions. These risks could have a significant impact on our ability to sell our products on a competitive basis in international markets and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, our operations outside of the United States are subject to risks relating to appropriate compliance with legal and regulatory requirements in local jurisdictions, potential difficulties in staffing and managing local operations, higher product damages, particularly when products are shipped long distances, potentially higher incidence of fraud and/or corruption, credit risk of local customers and distributors and potentially adverse tax consequences.. Global or regional catastrophic events could impact our operations and affect our ability to grow our business.. Because of our increasingly global presence, our business could be affected by unstable political conditions, civil unrest, large-scale terrorist acts, especially those directed against the United States or other major industrialized countries where our products are distributed, the outbreak or escalation of armed hostilities, major natural disasters or widespread outbreaks of infectious diseases. Such events could impact the production and/or distribution of our products. In addition, such events could disrupt global or regional economic activity, which could affect consumer purchasing power, thereby reducing demand for our products. If we are unable to grow our business internationally as a result of these factors, our growth rate could decline.. 24. Table of Contents. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our operating results.. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to our sales, expenses, profits, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We may enter into forward currency exchange contracts with financial institutions to create an economic hedge to specifically manage a portion of the foreign exchange risk exposure associated with certain consolidated subsidiaries' non-functional currency denominated assets and liabilities. We have not used instruments to hedge against all foreign currency risks and are therefore not protected against all foreign currency fluctuations. As a result, our reported earnings may be affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Moreover, any favorable impacts to profit margins or financial results from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates are likely to be unsustainable over time. Foreign currency transaction losses were $3.3 million, $9.7 million and $5.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.. We rely on bottlers and other contract packers to manufacture our products. If we are unable to maintain good relationships with our bottlers and contract packers and/or their ability to manufacture our products becomes constrained or unavailable to us, our business could suffer.. Our acquisition of AFF brought our primary flavor supplier in-house for the majority of our Monster Energy® brand energy drinks. However, we also procure flavors from other independent flavor suppliers. We do not manufacture finished goods, but instead outsource manufacturing of our finished goods to bottlers and other contract packers. As a result, in the event of a disruption and/or delay, we may be unable to procure alternative packing facilities at commercially reasonable rates and/or within a reasonably short time period. In addition, there are limited alternative packing facilities in our domestic and international markets with adequate capacity and/or suitable equipment for many of our products, including our Monster Energy® brand energy drinks, our Muscle Monster® product line, our Java Monster® product line, our Espresso MonsterTM product line, our Monster Hydro® product line and certain of our other products. For example, in the second half of 2016 and into the fourth quarter of 2017, sales of our Java Monster® and Muscle Monster® product lines were adversely impacted by production capacity constraints resulting from production and maintenance issues with certain of our co-packers. While this short-term disruption in production did not significantly affect our revenues, a lengthy disruption or delay in the production of any our products could significantly adversely affect our revenues from such products because alternative co-packing facilities in the United States and abroad with adequate long-term capacity may not be available for such products either at commercially reasonable rates and/or costs and/or within a reasonably short time period, if at all.. We rely on bottlers and distributors to distribute our products. If we are unable to maintain good relationships with our existing bottlers and distributors and/or secure such bottlers and distributors, our business could suffer.. Many of our bottlers/distributors are affiliated with and manufacture and/or distribute other soda, carbonated and non-carbonated brands and other beverage products (both alcoholic and non-alcoholic). In many cases, such products compete directly with our products.. Unilateral decisions could be taken by our bottlers/distributors, convenience and gas chains, grocery chains, specialty chain stores, club stores and other customers, to discontinue carrying certain or all of our products that they are carrying at any time, which could cause our business to suffer.. The TCCC North American Bottlers, Coca-Cola European Partners, Coca-Cola Hellenic and Coca-Cola FEMSA are our primary domestic and international distributors of our products. As a result, if we are unable to maintain good relationships with the TCCC North American Bottlers, Coca-Cola European Partners, Coca-Cola Hellenic and/or Coca-Cola FEMSA, or if the TCCC North American Bottlers, Coca-Cola European Partners, Coca-Cola Hellenic and/or Coca-Cola FEMSA do not effectively focus on marketing, promoting, selling and distributing our products, sales of our products could be adversely affected.. 25. Table of Contents. TCCC, through the TCCC Subsidiaries, accounted for approximately 18%, 41% and 43% of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. A decision by certain TCCC North American Bottlers (including CCBCC Operations, LLC), Coca-Cola European Partners, Coca-Cola Hellenic, Coca-Cola FEMSA, Wal-Mart, Inc. (including Sam's Club), or any other large customer to decrease the amount purchased from us or to cease carrying our products could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and consolidated results of operations.. The marketing efforts of our distributors are important for our success. If our brands prove to be less attractive to our existing bottlers and distributors, if we fail to attract additional bottlers and distributors, and/or our bottlers and/or distributors do not market, promote and distribute our products effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Increases in costs and/or shortages of raw materials and/or ingredients and/or fuel and/or costs of co-packing could harm our business.. The principal raw materials used by us are aluminum cans, sleek aluminum cans, aluminum Cap Cans, aluminum cans with re-sealable ends, PET plastic bottles, PET plastic cans, glass bottles, flavors, juice concentrates, glucose, sugar, sucralose, milk, cream, protein, dietary ingredients and other packaging materials, the costs and availability of which are subject to fluctuations. In addition, certain of our co-packing arrangements allow such co-packers to increase their charges based on certain of their own cost increases. We are uncertain whether the prices of any of the above or any other raw materials or ingredients, certain of which have recently risen, will continue to rise or may rise in the future. We are unsure whether we will be able to pass any of such increases on to our customers. We generally do not use hedging agreements or alternative instruments to manage the risks associated with securing sufficient ingredients or raw materials, although we do, from time to time, enter into purchase agreements for a significant portion of our annual anticipated requirements for certain raw materials such as aluminum cans, glucose, sugar and sucralose.. In addition, some of these raw materials, including certain sizes of cans, are available from limited suppliers.. Our failure to accurately estimate demand for our products could adversely affect our business and financial results.. We may not correctly estimate demand for our existing products and/or new products. Our ability to estimate demand for our products is imprecise, particularly with regard to new products, and may be less precise during periods of rapid growth, particularly in new markets. If we materially underestimate demand for our products or are unable to secure sufficient ingredients or raw materials including, but not limited to, aluminum cans, aluminum Cap Cans, sleek aluminum cans, aluminum cans with re-sealable ends, PET plastic bottles, PET plastic cans, glass bottles, labels, sucralose, flavors, dietary ingredients, juice concentrates, certain sweeteners, coffee, tea, protein and packaging materials or experience difficulties with our co-packing arrangements, including production shortages or quality issues, we might not be able to satisfy demand on a short-term basis. Moreover, industry-wide shortages of certain juice concentrates, dietary ingredients and sweeteners have been and could, from time to time in the future, be experienced, resulting in production fluctuations and/or product shortages. We generally do not use hedging agreements or alternative instruments to manage this risk. Such shortages could interfere with and/or delay production of certain of our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. 26. Table of Contents. If we do not maintain sufficient inventory levels, if we are unable to deliver our products to our customers in sufficient quantities, and/or if our customers' or retailers' inventory levels are too high, our operating results could be adversely affected.. If we do not accurately anticipate the future demand for a particular product or the time it will take to obtain new inventory, our inventory levels may be inadequate and our results of operations may be negatively impacted. If we fail to meet our shipping schedules, we could damage our relationships with distributors and/or retailers, increase our distribution costs and/or cause sales opportunities to be delayed or lost. In order to be able to deliver our products on a timely basis, we need to maintain adequate inventory levels of the desired products. If the inventory of our products held by our distributors and/or retailers is too high, they will not place orders for additional products, which could unfavorably impact our future sales and adversely affect our operating results.. The costs of packaging supplies are subject to price increases from time to time, and we may be unable to pass all or some of such increased costs on to our customers.. Many of our packaging supply contracts allow our suppliers to alter the costs they charge us for packaging supplies based on changes in the costs of the underlying commodities that are used to produce those packaging supplies, such as aluminum for cans and pulp and paper for cartons and/or trays. These changes in the prices we pay for our packaging supplies occur at certain predetermined times that vary by product and supplier. In some cases, we are able to fix the prices of certain packaging supplies and/or commodities for a reasonable period. In other cases, we bear the risk of increases in the costs of these packaging supplies, including the underlying costs of the commodities that comprise these packaging supplies. We do not use derivative instruments to manage this risk. If the costs of these packaging supplies increase, we may be unable to pass these costs along to our customers through corresponding adjustments to the prices we charge, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our intellectual property rights are critical to our success, and the loss of such rights could materially adversely affect our business.. We own numerous trademarks that are very important to our business. We also own the copyright in, and to, a portion of the content on the packaging of our products. We regard our trademarks, copyrights, and similar intellectual property as critical to our success and attempt to protect such intellectual property through registration and enforcement actions. However, there can be no assurance that other parties will not infringe or misappropriate our trademarks, copyrights and similar proprietary rights. If we lose some or all of our intellectual property rights, our business may be materially adversely affected.. If we are unable to maintain our brand image or product quality, our business may suffer.. Our success depends on our ability to build and maintain the brand image for our existing products, new products and brand extensions. There can be no assurance that our advertising, marketing and promotional programs will have the desired impact on our products' brand image and on consumer preference and demand. Product quality and/or ingredient content issues, efficacy or lack thereof, (real or imagined), or allegations of product contamination, even if false or unfounded, could tarnish the image of the affected brands and may cause consumers to choose other products. Furthermore, our brand image or perceived product quality could be adversely affected by litigation, unfavorable reports in the media (internet or elsewhere), studies in general and regulatory or other governmental inquiries, (in each case whether involving our products or those of our competitors) and proposed or new legislation affecting our industry.. If we encounter product recalls, our business may suffer and we may incur material losses.. We may be required from time to time to recall products entirely or from specific co-packers, markets or batches if such products become contaminated, damaged, mislabeled or otherwise materially non-compliant with applicable regulatory requirements. Material product recalls could adversely affect our profitability and our brand image. We do not maintain recall insurance.. 27. Table of Contents. If we are not able to retain the full-time services of senior management there may be an adverse effect on our operations and/or our operating performance until we find suitable replacements.. Our business is dependent, to a large extent, upon the services of our senior management. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any members of our senior management. The loss of services of either Mr. Sacks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Schlosberg, President and Chief Financial Officer, or any other key members of our senior management could adversely affect our business until suitable replacements can be found. There may be a limited number of personnel with the requisite skills to serve in these positions, and we may be unable to locate or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms.. Climate change may negatively affect our business.. There is concern that a gradual increase in global average temperatures could cause significant changes in weather patterns around the globe and an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters. While warmer weather has historically been associated with increased sales of our products, changing weather patterns could result in decreased agricultural productivity in certain regions, which may limit availability and/or increase the cost of certain key ingredients, juice concentrates and dietary and other ingredients used in our products. Increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain (including, without limitation, the availability of, and/or result in higher prices for, juice concentrates, natural flavors and dietary and other ingredients) and/or impact demand for our products. In addition, public expectations for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased energy, transportation and raw material costs, and may require us to make additional investments in facilities and equipment. As a result, the effects of climate change could have a long-term adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Sales of our products may also be influenced to some extent by weather conditions in the markets in which we operate. Weather conditions may influence consumer demand for certain of our beverages, which could have an adverse effect on our operations.. Potential changes in accounting standards or practices and/or taxation may adversely affect our financial results.. We cannot predict the impact that future changes in accounting standards or practices may have on our financial results. New accounting standards could be issued that change the way we record revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. These changes in accounting standards could adversely affect our reported earnings. Increases in direct and indirect income tax rates could affect after-tax income. Equally, increases in indirect taxes (including environmental taxes pertaining to the disposal of beverage containers and/or indirect taxes on beverages generally or energy drinks in particular) could affect our products' affordability and reduce our sales.. Fluctuations in our effective tax rate could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions. Therefore, we may be subjected to audits for multiple tax years in various jurisdictions at once. At any given time, events may occur which change our expectation about how any such tax audits will be resolved and thus, there could be variability in our quarterly and/or annual tax rates, because these events may change our plans for uncertain tax positions. On December 22, 2017, the President of the United States signed into law the Tax and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Reform Act\") which imposes broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code. While we have provided a provisional estimate of the effect of the Tax Reform Act in our financial statements, in particular as it relates to the reduction of our net deferred tax assets, actual amounts may vary materially from these estimates due to a number of uncertainties and factors, including further analysis and clarification of the Tax Reform Act that cannot be reasonably estimated at this time.. 28. Table of Contents. Volatility of stock price may restrict sale opportunities.. Our stock price is affected by a number of factors, including stockholder expectations, financial results, the introduction of new products by us and our competitors, general economic and market conditions, estimates and projections by the investment community and public comments by other parties as well as many other factors including litigation, many of which are beyond our control. We do not provide guidance on our future performance, including, but not limited to, our revenues, margins, product mix, operating expenses or net income. We may be unable to achieve analysts' net revenue and/or earnings forecasts, which are based on their own projected revenues, sales volumes and sales mix of many product types and/or new products, certain of which are more profitable than others, as well as their own estimates of gross margin and operating expenses. There can be no assurance that we will achieve any such projected levels or mixes of product sales, revenues, gross margins, operating profits and/or net income. As a result, our stock price is subject to significant volatility, and stockholders may not be able to sell our stock at attractive prices. In addition, periods of volatility in the market price of our stock could result in the initiation of securities class action litigation against us. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, the high of our stock price was $64.79 and the low was $41.02.. Provisions in our organizational documents and control by insiders may prevent changes in control even if such changes would be beneficial to other stockholders.. Our organizational documents may limit changes in control. Furthermore, as of February 12, 2018, Mr. Sacks and Mr. Schlosberg together may be deemed to beneficially own and/or exercise voting control over approximately 9.3% of our outstanding common stock. As of February 12, 2018, TCCC owned approximately 18.0% of our common stock. Consequently, Mr. Sacks, Mr. Schlosberg and TCCC could exercise significant control over matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including electing directors, amending organizational documents and disapproving extraordinary transactions such as a takeover attempt, even though such actions may be favorable to the other common stockholders.. Our cash flow may not be sufficient to fund our long-term goals.. Although we currently have sufficient cash to support our planned operating activities in the current year, we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to support our capital expenditure plans and general operating activities in the future. In addition, the terms and/or availability of our credit facility and/or the activities of our debtors and/or creditors could affect the financing of our future growth.. Our investments in marketable securities are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments.. At December 31, 2017, we had $528.6 million in cash and cash equivalents, $672.9 million in short-term investments and $2.4 million of long-term investments. We have historically invested these amounts in U.S. Treasury bills, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, government agencies and municipal securities (which may have an auction reset feature), variable rate demand notes and money market funds meeting certain criteria. Certain of these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks. These risks associated with our investment portfolio may have an adverse effect on our future results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired.. Under GAAP, we are required to review our intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our intangible assets may not be recoverable include, declining or slower than anticipated growth rates for certain of our existing products, a decline in stock price and market capitalization, and slower growth rates in our industry.. 29. Table of Contents. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which we determine that our intangible assets have been impaired. Any such charge would adversely impact our results of operations. As of December 31, 2017, our goodwill totaled approximately $1,331.6 million and our intangible assets totaled approximately $1,034.1 million.. If we fail to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting on a consolidated basis, our stock price and investor confidence in the Company could be materially and adversely affected.. We are required to maintain both disclosure controls and procedures as well as internal control over financial reporting that are effective for the purposes described in \"Part II, Item 9A  -  Controls and Procedures.\" If we fail to maintain such controls and procedures, our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or the value of our stock could be materially harmed.. Litigation, legal proceedings, government and regulatory inquiries and/or proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities and thus negatively affect our financial results.. We are a party, from time to time, to various litigation claims and legal proceedings, government and regulatory inquiries and/or proceedings, including, but not limited to, intellectual property, fraud, unfair business practices, false advertising, product liability, breach of contract claims, securities actions and shareholder derivative actions. Material legal proceedings are described more fully in, \"Part I, Item 3  -  Legal Proceedings\" and in \"Part II, Item 8, Note 11\" to our consolidated financial statements contained in this Form 10-K.. Defending these proceedings can result in significant ongoing expenditures and the diversion of our management's time and attention from the operation of our business, which could have a negative effect on our business operations. Our failure to successfully defend or settle any litigation or legal proceedings could result in liabilities that, to the extent not covered by our insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, revenue and profitability, and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.. We must continually maintain, protect and/or upgrade our information technology systems, including, protecting us from internal and external cybersecurity threats.. Information technology enables us to operate efficiently, interface with customers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency and accurately produce our financial statements. If we do not appropriately allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, and/or the loss of and/or damage to intellectual property through security breaches, including internal and external cybersecurity threats. Cybersecurity attacks are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software (malware and virus), attempts to gain unauthorized access to networks, computer systems and data and other forms of electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in business systems, an inability to process customer orders and/or lost customer orders, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. We believe that we have adopted appropriate measures including ongoing  cybersecurity risk assessments to mitigate potential risks to our technology and our operations from these information technology-related disruptions. However, given the unpredictability of the timing, nature and scope of such disruptions, we could potentially be subject to operational interruption, damage to our brand image and private data exposure. Moreover, if our data management systems, including our SAP enterprise resource planning system, do not effectively collect, store, process and report relevant data for the operation of our business (whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies, cybersecurity attack and/or human error), our ability to effectively plan, forecast and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations will be impaired, perhaps materially. Any such impairment could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the timeliness with which we report our internal and external operating results.. 30. Table of Contents"
