[1] "ITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS. The following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company's management currently deems minor or insignificant also may impair its business operations. If any of the following risks occur, Moody's business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information in this annual report on Form 10-K.. U.S. Laws and Regulations Affecting the Credit Rating Industry May Negatively Impact the Nature and Economics of the Company's Business.. Moody's operates in a highly regulated industry and is subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local authorities in the U.S., including the Reform Act and the Financial Reform Act. These regulations are complex, continually evolving and have tended to become more stringent over time. See \"Regulation\" in Part 1, Item 1 of this annual report on Form 10-K for more information. These laws and regulations:. »   seek to encourage, and may result in, increased competition among rating agencies and in the credit rating business;. »   may result in alternatives to credit ratings or changes in the pricing of credit ratings;. »   restrict the use of information in the development or maintenance of credit ratings;. »   increase regulatory oversight of the credit markets and CRA operations;. »   provide for direct jurisdiction of the SEC over CRAs that seek NRSRO status, and grant authority to the SEC to inspect the operations of CRAs; and. »   authorize the adoption of enhanced oversight standards and new pleading standards, which may result in increases in the number of legal proceedings claiming liability for losses suffered by investors on rated securities and aggregate legal defense costs.. These laws and regulations, and any future rulemaking or court rulings, could result in reduced demand for credit ratings and increased costs, which Moody's may be unable to pass through to customers. In addition, there may be uncertainty over the scope, interpretation and administration of such laws and regulations. The Company may be required to incur significant expenses in order to ensure compliance and mitigate the risk of fines, penalties or other sanctions. Legal proceedings could become increasingly lengthy and there may be uncertainty over and exposure to liability. It is difficult to accurately assess the future impact of legislative and regulatory requirements on Moody's business and its customers' businesses. For example, new laws and regulations may affect MIS's communications with issuers as part of the rating assignment process, alter the manner in which MIS's ratings are developed, assigned and communicated, affect the manner in which MIS or its customers or users of credit ratings operate, impact the demand for MIS's ratings and alter the economics of the credit ratings business, including by restricting or mandating business models for rating agencies. Further, speculation concerning the impact of legislative and regulatory initiatives and the increased uncertainty over potential liability and adverse legal or judicial determinations may negatively affect Moody's stock price. Although these legislative and regulatory initiatives apply to rating agencies and credit markets generally, they may affect Moody's in a disproportionate manner. Each of these developments increase the costs and legal risk associated with the issuance of credit ratings and may have a material adverse effect on Moody's operations, profitability and competitiveness, the demand for credit ratings and the manner in which such ratings are utilized.. Financial Reforms Outside the U.S. Affecting the Credit Rating Industry May Negatively Impact the Nature and Economics of the Company's Business.. In addition to the extensive and evolving U.S. laws and regulations governing the industry, foreign jurisdictions have taken measures to increase regulation of rating agencies and the markets for ratings. In particular, the EU has adopted a common regulatory framework for rating agencies operating in the EU. As a result, ESMA has direct supervisory authority for CRAs in the EU and has the power to take enforcement action against non-compliant CRAs, including through the issuance of public notices, withdrawal of registration and, in some cases, the imposition of fines.. MIS is a registered entity and is therefore subject to formal regulation and periodic inspection in the EU. Applicable rules include procedural requirements with respect to ratings of sovereign issuers, liability for intentional or grossly negligent failure to abide by applicable regulations, mandatory rotation requirements of CRAs hired by issuers of securities for ratings of resecuritizations, and restrictions on CRAs or their shareholders if certain ownership thresholds are crossed. Additional procedural and substantive requirements include conditions for the issuance of credit ratings, rules regarding the organization of CRAs, restrictions on activities deemed to create a conflict of interest, including fees that are based on costs and are non-discriminatory, and special requirements for the rating of structured finance instruments. Compliance with the EU regulations may increase costs of operations and could have a significant negative effect on Moody's operations, profitability or ability to compete, or the markets for its products and services, including in ways that Moody's presently is unable to predict. In addition, exposure to increased liability under the EU regulations may further increase costs and legal risks associated with the issuance of credit ratings and materially and adversely impact Moody's results of operations.. 18   MOODY'S  2017 10-K. Table of Contents. The EU and other jurisdictions engage in rulemaking on an ongoing basis that could significantly impact operations or the markets for Moody's products and services, including regulations extending to products and services not currently regulated and regulations affecting the need for debt securities to be rated, expansion of supervisory remit to include non-EU ratings used for regulatory purposes, increasing the level of competition in the market for credit ratings, establishing criteria for credit ratings or limiting the entities authorized to provide credit ratings. Moody's cannot predict the extent of such future laws and regulations, and the effect that they will have on Moody's business or the potential for increased exposure to liability could be significant. Financial reforms in the EU and other foreign jurisdictions may have a material adverse effect on Moody's business, operating results and financial condition.. The Company Faces Exposure to Litigation and Government Regulatory Proceedings, Investigations and Inquiries Related to Rating Opinions and Other Business Practices.. Moody's faces exposure to litigation and government and regulatory proceedings, investigations and inquiries related to MIS's ratings actions, as well as other business practices and products. If the market value of credit-dependent instruments declines or defaults, whether as a result of difficult economic times, turbulent markets or otherwise, the number of investigations and legal proceedings that Moody's faces could increase significantly. Parties who invest in securities rated by MIS may pursue claims against MIS or Moody's for losses they face in their portfolios. Moody's has faced numerous class action lawsuits and other litigation, government investigations and inquiries concerning events linked to the U.S. subprime residential mortgage sector and broader deterioration in the credit markets during the financial crisis of 2007-2008. Legal proceedings impose additional expenses on the Company and require the attention of senior management to an extent that may significantly reduce their ability to devote time addressing other business issues, and any of these proceedings, investigations or inquiries could ultimately result in adverse judgments, damages, fines, penalties or activity restrictions. Risks relating to legal proceedings may be heightened in foreign jurisdictions that lack the legal protections or liability standards comparable to those that exist in the U.S. In addition, new laws and regulations have been and may continue to be enacted that establish lower liability standards, shift the burden of proof or relax pleading requirements, thereby increasing the risk of successful litigations in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions. These litigation risks are often difficult to assess or quantify. Moody's may not have adequate insurance or reserves to cover these risks, and the existence and magnitude of these risks often remains unknown for substantial periods of time. Furthermore, to the extent that Moody's is unable to achieve dismissals at an early stage and litigation matters proceed to trial, the aggregate legal defense costs incurred by Moody's increase substantially, as does the risk of an adverse outcome. Additionally, as litigation or the process to resolve pending matters progresses, Moody's may change its accounting estimates, which could require Moody's to record liabilities in the consolidated financial statements in future periods. See Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for more information regarding ongoing investigations and civil litigation that the Company currently faces. Due to the number of these proceedings and the significant amount of damages sought, there is a risk that Moody's will be subject to judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other adverse results that could have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition.. The Company is Exposed to Legal, Economic, Operational and Regulatory Risks of Operating in Multiple Jurisdictions.. Moody's conducts operations in various countries outside the U.S. and derives a significant portion of its revenue from foreign sources. Changes in the economic condition of the various foreign economies in which the Company operates may have an impact on the Company's business. For example, economic uncertainty in the Eurozone or elsewhere could affect the number of securities offerings undertaken within those particular areas. In addition, operations abroad expose Moody's to a number of legal, economic and regulatory risks such as:. »   exposure to exchange rate movements between foreign currencies and USD;. »   restrictions on the ability to convert local currency into USD and the costs, including the tax impact, of repatriating cash held by entities outside the U.S.;. »   U.S. laws affecting overseas operations including domestic and foreign export and import restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers;. »   differing and potentially conflicting legal or civil liability, compliance and regulatory standards, including as a result of the U.K.'s referendum vote to withdraw from the EU, Brexit;. »   current and future regulations relating to the imposition of mandatory rotation requirements on CRAs hired by issuers of securities;. »   uncertain and evolving laws and regulations, including those applicable to the financial services industries, such as the European Union's implementation of the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II, MiFID II, in January 2018, and to the protection of intellectual property;. »   economic, political and geopolitical market conditions;. »   the possibility of nationalization, expropriation, price controls and other restrictive governmental actions;. MOODY'S  2017 10-K     19. Table of Contents. »   competition with local rating agencies that have greater familiarity, longer operating histories and/or support from local governments or other institutions;. »   uncertainties of obtaining data and creating products and services relevant to particular geographic markets;. »   reduced protection for intellectual property rights;. »   longer payment cycles and possible problems in collecting receivables;. »   differing accounting principles and standards;. »   difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations;. »   difficulties and delays in translating documentation into foreign languages; and. »   potentially adverse tax consequences.. Additionally, Moody's is subject to complex U.S., foreign and other local laws and regulations that are applicable to its operations abroad, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010 and other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. Although the Company has implemented internal controls, policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs to deter prohibited practices, such measures may not be effective in preventing employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing such internal policies and violating applicable laws and regulations. Any determination that the Company has violated anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on Moody's business, operating results and financial condition. Compliance with international and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to the Company's international operations increases the cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. Violations of such laws and regulations may result in severe fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, administrative remedies, restrictions on business conduct and could have a material adverse effect on Moody's reputation, its ability to attract and retain employees, its business, operating results and financial condition.. Moody's Operations and Infrastructure May Malfunction or Fail.. Moody's ability to conduct business may be materially and adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports its businesses and the communities in which Moody's is located, including New York City, the location of Moody's headquarters, major cities worldwide in which Moody's has offices, and locations in China used for certain Moody's back office work. This may include a disruption involving physical or technological infrastructure (whether or not controlled by the Company), including the Company's electronic delivery systems, data center facilities, or the Internet, used by the Company or third parties with or through whom Moody's conducts business. Many of the Company's products and services are delivered electronically and the Company's customers depend on the Company's ability to receive, store, process, transmit and otherwise rapidly handle very substantial quantities of data and transactions on computer-based networks. The Company's customers also depend on the continued capacity, reliability and security of the Company's telecommunications, data centers, networks and other electronic delivery systems, including its websites and connections to the Internet. The Company's employees also depend on these systems for internal use. Any significant failure, compromise, cyber-breach, interruption or a significant slowdown of operations of the Company's infrastructure, whether due to human error, capacity constraints, hardware failure or defect, natural disasters, fire, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, acts of terrorism, political unrest, war or otherwise, may impair the Company's ability to deliver its products and services.. Moody's efforts to secure and plan for potential disruptions of its major operating systems may not be successful. The Company relies on third-party providers to provide certain essential services. While the Company believes that such providers are reliable, the Company has limited control over the performance of such providers. To the extent any of the Company's third-party providers ceases to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective manner or fails to adequately expand its services to meet the Company's needs and the needs of the Company's customers, the Company could experience lower revenues and higher costs. Additionally, although the Company maintains processes to prevent, detect and recover from a disruption, the Company also does not have fully redundant systems for most of its smaller office locations and low-risk systems, and its disaster recovery plan does not include restoration of non-essential services. If a disruption occurs in one of Moody's locations or systems and its personnel in those locations or those who rely on such systems are unable to utilize other systems or communicate with or travel to other locations, such persons' ability to service and interact with Moody's customers may suffer. The Company cannot predict with certainty all of the adverse effects that could result from the Company's failure, or the failure of a third party, to efficiently address and resolve these delays and interruptions. A disruption to Moody's operations or infrastructure may have a material adverse effect on its reputation, business, operating results and financial condition.. The Company is Exposed to Risks Related to Cybersecurity and Protection of Confidential Information.. The Company's operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential, sensitive, proprietary and other types of information relating to its business operations and confidential and sensitive information about its customers and employees in the. 20   MOODY'S  2017 10-K. Table of Contents. Company's computer systems and networks, and in those of its third party vendors. The cyber risks the Company faces range from cyber-attacks common to most industries, to more advanced threats that target the Company because of its prominence in the global marketplace, or due to its ratings of sovereign debt. Breaches of Moody's or Moody's vendors' technology and systems, whether from circumvention of security systems, denial-of-service attacks or other cyber-attacks, hacking, \"phishing\" attacks, computer viruses, ransomware, or malware, employee or insider error, malfeasance, social engineering, physical breaches or other actions, may result in manipulation or corruption of sensitive data, material interruptions or malfunctions in the Company's or such vendors' web sites, applications, data processing, or disruption of other business operations, or may compromise the confidentiality and integrity of material information held by the Company (including information about Moody's business, employees or customers), as well as sensitive personally identifiable information (\"PII\"), the disclosure of which could lead to identity theft. Measures that Moody's takes to avoid, detect, mitigate or recover from material incidents can be expensive, and may be insufficient, circumvented, or may become ineffective. To conduct its operations, the Company regularly moves data across national borders, and consequently is subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations in the United States and abroad regarding privacy, data protection and data security. The scope of the laws that may be applicable to Moody's is often uncertain and may be conflicting, particularly with respect to foreign laws. For example, the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\"), which greatly increases the jurisdictional reach of European Union law and adds a broad array of requirements for handling personal data, including the public disclosure of significant data breaches, becomes effective in May 2018. Additionally, other countries have enacted or are enacting data localization laws that require data to stay within their borders. All of these evolving compliance and operational requirements impose significant costs that are likely to increase over time.. The Company has invested and continues to invest in risk management and information security measures in order to protect its systems and data, including employee training, disaster plans, and technical defenses, in order to protect its systems and data. The cost and operational consequences of implementing, maintaining and enhancing further data or system protection measures could increase significantly to overcome increasingly intense, complex, and sophisticated global cyber threats. Despite the Company's best efforts, it is not fully insulated from data breaches and system disruptions. Recent well-publicized security breaches at other companies have led to enhanced government and regulatory scrutiny of the measures taken by companies to protect against cyber-attacks, and may in the future result in heightened cybersecurity requirements, including additional regulatory expectations for oversight of vendors and service providers. Any material breaches of cybersecurity or media reports of perceived security vulnerabilities to the Company's systems or those of the Company's third parties, even if no breach has been attempted or occurred, could cause the Company to experience reputational harm, loss of customers and revenue, regulatory actions and scrutiny, sanctions or other statutory penalties, litigation, liability for failure to safeguard the Company's customers' information, or financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by the Company. Any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on Moody's business, operating results and financial condition.. Changes in the Volume of Debt Securities Issued in Domestic and/or Global Capital Markets, Asset Levels and Flows into Investment Levels and Changes in Interest Rates and Other Volatility in the Financial Markets May Negatively Impact the Nature and Economics of the Company's Business.. Moody's business is impacted by general economic conditions and volatility in the U.S. and world financial markets. Furthermore, issuers of debt securities may elect to issue securities without ratings or securities which are rated or evaluated by non-traditional parties such as financial advisors, rather than traditional CRAs, such as MIS. A majority of Moody's credit-rating-based revenue is transaction-based, and therefore it is especially dependent on the number and dollar volume of debt securities issued in the capital markets. Market disruptions and economic slowdown and uncertainty have in the past negatively impacted the volume of debt securities issued in global capital markets and the demand for credit ratings. The Tax Act, in addition to other changes to U.S. tax laws and policy, could negatively affect the volume of debt securities issued in the U.S. For example, the Tax Act will limit deductibility on interest payments and significantly reduce the tax cost associated with the repatriation of cash held outside the U.S., both of which could negatively affect the volume of debt securities issued. Conditions that reduce issuers' ability or willingness to issue debt securities, such as market volatility, declining growth, currency devaluations or other adverse economic trends, reduce the number and dollar-equivalent volume of debt issuances for which Moody's provides ratings services and thereby adversely affect the fees Moody's earns in its ratings business.. Economic and government factors such as a long-term continuation of difficult economic conditions or a re-emergence of the sovereign debt crisis in Europe may have an adverse impact on the Company's business. Future debt issuances also could be negatively affected by increases in interest rates, widening credit spreads, regulatory and political developments, growth in the use of alternative sources of credit, and defaults by significant issuers. Declines or other changes in the markets for debt securities may materially and adversely affect the Company's business, operating results and financial condition.. Moody's initiatives to reduce costs to counteract a decline in its business may not be sufficient and cost reductions may be difficult or impossible to obtain in the short term, due in part to rent, technology, compliance and other fixed costs associated with some of the Company's operations as well as the need to monitor outstanding ratings. Further, cost-reduction initiatives, including those under-. MOODY'S  2017 10-K     21. Table of Contents. taken to date, could make it difficult for the Company to rapidly expand operations in order to accommodate any unexpected increase in the demand for ratings. Volatility in the financial markets, including changes in the volumes of debt securities and changes in interest rates, may have a material adverse effect on the business, operating results and financial condition, which the Company may not be able to successfully offset with cost reductions.. The Company Faces Increased Pricing Pressure from Competitors and/or Customers.. There is price competition in the credit rating, research, credit risk management markets, research and analytical services and financial training and certification services. Moody's faces competition globally from other CRAs and from investment banks and brokerage firms that offer credit opinions in research, as well as from in-house research operations. Competition for customers and market share has spurred more aggressive tactics by some competitors in areas such as pricing and services, as well as increased competition from non-NRSROs that evaluate debt risk for issuers or investors. At the same time, a challenging business environment and consolidation among customers, particularly those involved in structured finance products, and other factors affecting demand may enhance the market power of competitors and reduce the Company's customer base. Weak economic growth intensifies competitive pricing pressures and can result in customers' use of free or lower-cost information that is available from alternative sources. While Moody's seeks to compete primarily on the basis of the quality of its products and services, it may lose market share if its pricing is not sufficiently competitive. In addition, the Reform Act was designed to encourage competition among rating agencies. The formation of additional NRSROs may increase pricing and competitive pressures. Furthermore, in some of the countries in which Moody's operates, governments may provide financial or other support to local rating agencies. Any inability of Moody's to compete successfully with respect to the pricing of its products and services could have a material adverse impact on its business, operating results and financial condition.. The Company is Exposed to Reputation and Credibility Concerns.. Moody's reputation and the strength of its brand are key competitive strengths. To the extent that the rating agency business as a whole or Moody's, relative to its competitors, suffers a loss in credibility, Moody's business could be significantly impacted. Factors that may have already affected credibility and could potentially continue to have an impact in this regard include the appearance of a conflict of interest, the performance of securities relative to the rating assigned to such securities, the timing and nature of changes in ratings, a major compliance failure, negative perceptions or publicity and increased criticism by users of ratings, regulators and legislative bodies, including as to the ratings process and its implementation with respect to one or more securities and intentional or unintentional misrepresentations of Moody's products and services in advertising materials, public relations information, social media or other external communications. Operational errors, whether by Moody's or a Moody's competitor, could also harm the reputation of the Company or the credit rating industry. Damage to reputation and credibility could have a material adverse impact on Moody's business, operating results and financial condition, as well as on the Company's ability to find suitable candidates for acquisition.. The Introduction of Competing Products or Technologies by Other Companies May Negatively Impact the Nature and Economics of the Company's Business.. The markets for credit ratings, research, credit risk management services, research and analytical services and financial training and certification services are highly competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, changes in customer demands, and evolving regulatory requirements, industry standards and market preferences. The ability to develop and successfully launch and maintain innovative products and technologies that anticipate customers' changing requirements and utilize emerging technological trends is a key factor in maintaining market share. Moody's competitors include both established companies with significant financial resources, brand recognition, market experience and technological expertise, and smaller companies which may be better poised to quickly adopt new or emerging technologies or respond to customer requirements. Competitors may develop quantitative methodologies or related services for assessing credit risk that customers and market participants may deem preferable, more cost-effective or more valuable than the credit risk assessment methods currently employed by Moody's, or may position, price or market their products in manners that differ from those utilized by Moody's. Moody's also competes indirectly against consulting firms and technology and information providers; these indirect competitors could in the future choose to compete directly with Moody's, cease doing business with Moody's or change the terms under which it does business with Moody's in a way that could negatively impact our business. In addition, customers or others may develop alternative, proprietary systems for assessing credit risk. Such developments could affect demand for Moody's products and services and its growth prospects. Further, the increased availability in recent years of free or relatively inexpensive Internet information may reduce the demand for Moody's products and services. For example, in December 2016, ESMA launched a database providing access to free, current information on certain credit ratings and rating outlooks. Moody's growth prospects also could be adversely affected by Moody's failure to make necessary or optimal capital infrastructure expenditures and improvements and the inability of its information technologies to provide adequate capacity and capabilities to meet increased demands of producing quality ratings and research products at levels achieved by competitors. Any inability of Moody to compete successfully may have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition.. Possible Loss of Key Employees and Related Compensation Cost Pressures May Negatively Impact the Company.. Moody's success depends upon its ability to recruit, retain and motivate highly skilled, experienced financial analysts and other professionals. Competition for skilled individuals in the financial services industry is intense, and Moody's ability to attract high quality. 22   MOODY'S  2017 10-K. Table of Contents. employees could be impaired if it is unable to offer competitive compensation and other incentives or if the regulatory environment mandates restrictions on or disclosures about individual employees that would not be necessary in competing industries. As greater focus has been placed on executive compensation at public companies, in the future, Moody's may be required to alter its compensation practices in ways that could adversely affect its ability to attract and retain talented employees. Investment banks, investors and competitors may seek to attract analyst talent by providing more favorable working conditions or offering significantly more attractive compensation packages than Moody's. Moody's also may not be able to identify and hire the appropriate qualified employees in some markets outside the U.S. with the required experience or skills to perform sophisticated credit analysis. There is a risk that even if the Company invests significant resources in attempting to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, it will not succeed in its efforts, and its business could be harmed.. Moody's is highly dependent on the continued services of Raymond W. McDaniel, Jr., the President and Chief Executive Officer, and other senior officers and key employees. The loss of the services of skilled personnel for any reason and Moody's inability to replace them with suitable candidates quickly or at all, as well as any negative market perception resulting from such loss, could have a material adverse effect on Moody's business, operating results and financial condition.. Moody's Acquisitions, Dispositions and Other Strategic Transactions or Internal Technology Investments May Not Produce Anticipated Results Exposing the Company to Future Significant Impairment Charges Relating to its Goodwill, Intangible Assets or Property and Equipment.. Moody's has entered into and expects to continue to enter into acquisition, disposition or other strategic transactions and expects to make various investments to strengthen its business and grow the Company. Such transactions as well as internal technology investments present significant challenges and risks. The market for acquisition targets, dispositions and other strategic transactions is highly competitive, especially in light of industry consolidation, which may affect Moody's ability to complete such transactions. If Moody's is unsuccessful in completing such transactions or if opportunities for expansion do not arise, its business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, we make significant investments in technology including software developed for internal-use which is time-intensive and complex to implement. Such investments may not be successful or may not result in the anticipated benefits resulting in asset write-offs.. In August 2017, Moody's acquired Bureau van Dijk for $3,542.0 million. The anticipated growth, synergies and other strategic objectives of the Bureau van Dijk acquisition, as well as other completed transactions, may not be fully realized, and a variety of factors may adversely affect any anticipated benefits from such transactions. Any strategic transaction can involve a number of risks, including unanticipated challenges regarding integration of operations, technologies and new employees; the existence of liabilities or contingencies not disclosed to or otherwise known by the Company prior to closing a transaction; unexpected regulatory and operating difficulties and expenditures; scrutiny from competition and antitrust authorities; failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business; future developments may impair the value of purchased goodwill or intangible assets; diverting management's focus from other business operations; failing to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at acquired companies that prior to the acquisition lacked such controls, procedures and policies; challenges retaining the customers of the acquired business; and for foreign transactions, additional risks related to the integration of operations across different cultures and languages, and the economic, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. The anticipated benefits from an acquisition or other strategic transaction may not be realized fully, or may take longer to realize than expected. As a result, the failure of acquisitions, dispositions and other strategic transactions to perform as expected may have a material adverse effect on Moody's business, operating results and financial condition.. At December 31, 2017, Moody's had $3,753.2 million of goodwill and $1,631.6 million of intangible assets on its balance sheet, both of which increased significantly due to the acquisition of Bureau van Dijk. Approximately 92% of the goodwill and intangible assets reside in the MA business, including those related to Bureau van Dijk, and are allocated to the five reporting units within MA: RD&A; ERS; Financial Services Training and Certifications; Moody's Analytics Knowledge Services; and Bureau van Dijk. The remaining 8% of goodwill and intangible assets reside in MIS and primarily relate to ICRA. Failure to achieve business objectives and financial projections in any of these reporting units could result in a significant asset impairment charge, which would result in a non-cash charge to operating expenses. Goodwill and intangible assets are tested for impairment on an annual basis and also when events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. Determining whether an impairment of goodwill exists can be especially difficult in periods of market or economic uncertainty and turmoil, and requires significant management estimates and judgment. In addition, the potential for goodwill impairment is increased during periods of economic uncertainty. An asset impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on Moody's business, operating results and financial condition.. The Company's Compliance and Risk Management Programs May Not be Effective and May Result in Outcomes That Could Adversely Affect the Company's Reputation, Financial Condition and Operating Results.. Moody's operates in a number of countries, and as a result the Company is required to comply and quickly adapt with numerous international and U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations. The Company's ability to comply with applicable laws and regulations,. MOODY'S  2017 10-K     23. Table of Contents. including anti-corruption laws, is largely dependent on its establishment and maintenance of compliance, review and reporting systems, as well as its ability to attract and retain qualified compliance and risk management personnel. Moody's policies and procedures to identify, evaluate and manage the Company's risks, including risks resulting from acquisitions, may not be fully effective, and Moody's employees or agents may engage in misconduct, fraud or other errors. It is not always possible to deter such errors, and the precautions the Company takes to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. If Moody's employees violate its policies or if the Company's risk management methods are not effective, the Company could be subject to criminal and civil liability, the suspension of the Company's employees, fines, penalties, regulatory sanctions, injunctive relief, exclusion from certain markets or other penalties, and may suffer harm to its reputation, financial condition and operating results.. Legal Protections for the Company's Intellectual Property Rights may not be Sufficient or Available to Protect the Company's Competitive Advantages.. Moody's considers many aspects of its products and services to be proprietary. Failure to protect the Company's intellectual property adequately could harm its reputation and affect the Company's ability to compete effectively. Businesses the Company acquires also involve intellectual property portfolios, which increase the challenges the Company faces in protecting its strategic advantage. In addition, the Company's operating results may be adversely affected by inadequate or changing legal and technological protections for intellectual property and proprietary rights in some jurisdictions and markets. On January 6, 2015, a rule with direct relevance to the CRA industry was published in the Official Journal of the European Union regarding the types of information that CRAs are to provide about certain ratings (those that were paid for by issuers) for publication on a central website administered by ESMA (the European Ratings Platform). This rule directly relates to the Company's intellectual property as it requires that the Company provide proprietary information at no cost that the Company currently sells, which could result in lost revenue. ESMA launched the European Rating Platform for public use on December 1, 2016.. Unauthorized third parties may also try to obtain and use technology or other information that the Company regards as proprietary. It is also possible that Moody's competitors or other entities could obtain patents related to the types of products and services that Moody's offers, and attempt to require Moody's to stop developing or marketing the products or services, to modify or redesign the products or services to avoid infringing, or to obtain licenses from the holders of the patents in order to continue developing and marketing the products and services. Even if Moody's attempts to assert or protect its intellectual property rights through litigation, it may require considerable cost, time and resources to do so, and there is no guarantee that the Company will be successful. These risks, and the cost, time and resources needed to address them, may increase as the Company's business grows and its profile rises in countries with intellectual property regimes that are less protective than the rules and regulations applied in the United States.. The Company is Dependent on the Use of Third-Party Software, Data, Hosted Solutions, Data Centers, Cloud and Network Infrastructure (Together, \"Third Party Technology\"), and Any Reduction in Third-Party Product Quality or Service Offerings, Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on the Company's Business, Financial Condition or Results of Operations.. Moody's relies on Third Party Technology in connection with its product development and offerings and operations. The Company depends on the ability of Third Party Technology providers to deliver and support reliable products, enhance their current products, develop new products on a timely and cost-effective basis, and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. The Third Party Technology Moody's uses may become obsolete, incompatible with future versions of the Company's products, unavailable or fail to operate effectively, and Moody's business could be adversely affected if the Company is unable to timely or effectively replace such Third Party Technology. The Company also monitors its use of Third Party Technology to comply with applicable license and other contractual requirements. Despite the Company's efforts, the Company cannot ensure that such third parties will permit Moody's use in the future, resulting in increased Third Party Technology acquisition costs and loss of rights. In addition, the Company's operating costs could increase if license or other usage fees for Third Party Technology increase or the efforts to incorporate enhancements to Third Party Technology are substantial. Some of these third-party suppliers are also Moody's competitors, increasing the risks noted above. If any of these risks materialize, they could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations.. Changes in Tax Rates or Tax Rules Could Affect Future Results.. As a global company, Moody's is subject to taxation in the United States and various other countries and jurisdictions. As a result, our effective tax rate is determined based on the pre-tax income and applicable tax rates in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Moody's future tax rates could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in countries or states with differing tax rates or other factors, including by increased earnings in jurisdictions where Moody's faces higher tax rates, losses incurred in jurisdictions for which Moody's is not able to realize the related tax benefit, or changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Changes in the tax, accounting and other laws, treaties, regulations, policies and administrative practices, or changes to their interpretation or enforcement, including changes applicable to multinational corporations such as the Base Erosion Profit Shifting project being conducted by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development and the European Union's state aid rulings, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's effective tax rate, results of operations and financial condition. The Tax Act made significant changes to the U.S. federal tax laws. Many aspects of the new legislation are currently uncertain or unclear and may not be clarified for some time. As. 24   MOODY'S  2017 10-K. Table of Contents. additional regulatory guidance is issued interpreting or clarifying the Tax Act or if the tax accounting rules are modified, there may be adjustments or changes to our estimate of the mandatory one-time deemed repatriation tax liability (\"transition tax\") on previously untaxed accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries recorded in 2017. Additional regulatory guidance may also affect our expected future effective tax rates and tax assets and liabilities which could have a material adverse effect on Moody's business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Furthermore, the Tax Act may impact the volume of debt securities issued as discussed in the Risk Factor, Changes in the Volume of Debt Securities Issued in Domestic and/or Global Capital Markets, Asset Levels and Flows into Investment Levels and Changes in Interest Rates and Other Volatility in the Financial Markets May Negatively Impact the Nature and Economics of the Company's Business.. In addition, Moody's is subject to regular examination of its income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities, and the Company is experiencing increased scrutiny as its business grows. Moody's regularly assesses the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes, including unrecognized tax benefits; however, developments in an audit or litigation could materially and adversely affect the Company. Although the Company believes its tax estimates and accruals are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different than the treatment reflected in its historical income tax provisions, accruals and unrecognized tax benefits, which could materially and adversely affect the Company's business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition."
