[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below and all of the other information included in this Form 10-K when deciding whether to invest in our common stock or otherwise evaluating our business. If any of the following risks materialize, our business, financial condition, or operating results could suffer. In this case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.. Our investment management operations may subject us to liability for any losses that result from a breach of our fiduciary duties.. Three of our subsidiaries, Morningstar Investment Management LLC, Morningstar Investment Services LLC, and Morningstar Research Services LLC, are registered as investment advisors with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended. As registered investment advisors, these companies are subject to the requirements and regulations of the Advisers Act. These requirements relate to, among other things, record-keeping, reporting, and standards of care, as well as general anti-fraud prohibitions. As registered investment advisors, these subsidiaries are subject to on-site examination by the SEC.. In addition, in cases where these subsidiaries provide investment advisory services to retirement plans and their participants, they may be acting as fiduciaries under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. As fiduciaries under ERISA, they have obligations to act in the best interest of their clients. They also have duties of loyalty and prudence, as well as duties to diversify investments and to follow plan documents to comply with the applicable portions of ERISA.. Our subsidiaries outside the United States that have investment advisory operations are subject to similar requirements.. We may face liabilities for actual or claimed breaches of our fiduciary duties, particularly in areas where we provide retirement advice and managed retirement accounts. In some of our retirement contracts, we act as an ERISA fiduciary by, for example, selecting and monitoring a broad range of diversified plan options. We also provide a managed account service for retirement plan participants who elect to have their accounts managed by our programs. Such activities have been the subject of increasing class action litigation in recent years. For example, in 2017, a participant in a pension plan filed a putative class action proceeding against us alleging that we, together with other defendant parties, violated the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act by allegedly engaging in actions to steer plan participants into high-cost investments that pay unwarranted fees to the defendants. We are vigorously contesting this proceeding, which is described in more detail in Item 3 of this Form 10-K under Legal Proceedings. As of December 31, 2017, we had $57.6 billion in assets under management in our managed retirement accounts. We could face substantial liabilities related to our management of these assets.. We rely on automated investment technology for our retirement advice and managed retirement accounts services. The Wealth Forecasting Engine is our core advice and managed accounts engine that determines appropriate asset allocations for retirement plan participants and assigns individuals to portfolios. We also rely on automated portfolio construction tools. Problems could arise if these programs assigned retirement plan participants to the wrong portfolios, particularly if we failed to detect program errors over an extended period. Clients may take legal action against us for an actual or claimed breach of a fiduciary duty. If we make an error, we may be subject to potentially large liabilities for make-whole payments and/or litigation. We cannot quantify the potential size of these liabilities with any level of precision.. In addition, we may face other legal liabilities based on the quality and outcome of our investment advisory recommendations, even in the absence of an actual or claimed breach of fiduciary duty, or based on our investment management fees and expenses. In total, we provided investment advisory and management services on approximately $195 billion in assets as of December 31, 2017. We could face substantial liabilities related to our work on these assets.. 25. Table of Contents. Failing to maintain and protect our brand, independence, and reputation may harm our business. Our reputation and business may also be harmed by allegations made about possible conflicts of interest or by other negative publicity or media reports.. We believe independence is at the core of our business, and our reputation is our greatest corporate asset. We rely on our reputation for integrity and high-caliber products and services. Any failure to uphold our high ethical standards and ensure that our customers have a consistently positive experience with us could damage our reputation as an objective, honest, and credible source for investment research and information. Allegations of improper conduct, whether the ultimate outcome is favorable or unfavorable to us, as well as any negative publicity or media reports about Morningstar, whether valid or not, may harm our reputation and damage our business. For instance, in October 2017, The Wall Street Journal ran an article critical of our fund star and analyst ratings. We publicly and comprehensively disputed the assertions made in the article, but the publication of such an article illustrates the risks of negative publicity to our business.. We provide ratings, analyst research, and investment recommendations on mutual funds and other investment products offered by our institutional clients. We also provide investment advisory and investment management services. In some cases, we make investment recommendations (such as Select Lists) within the framework of client constraints. While we don't charge asset management firms for their products to be rated, we do charge licensing fees for the use of our ratings. We also receive payments from issuers for our new-issue ratings on various types of asset-backed securities and corporate bond issues. These payments may create the perception that our ratings, research, and recommendations are not impartial.. This perception may undermine the confidence of our customers and potential customers in our reputation as a provider of independent research. Any such loss of confidence or damage to our reputation could hurt our business.. Our reputation may also be harmed by factors outside of our control, such as news reports about our clients or adverse publicity about certain investment products. Our reputation could also suffer if we fail to produce competitive performance in our investment management offerings.. Failing to differentiate our products and continuously create innovative, proprietary research tools may harm our competitive position and business results.. We attribute much of our company's success over the past 34 years to our ability to develop innovative, proprietary research tools, such as the Morningstar Rating, Morningstar Style Box, Ownership Zone, and Portfolio X-Ray. More recently, we've developed unique concepts and tools such as the Wealth Forecasting Engine, Gamma, Total Wealth Approach, and Best Interest Scorecard. We believe these innovations set us apart because most of our competitors focus on providing data or software rather than creating their own proprietary research frameworks. We also believe our ability to develop innovative, proprietary research tools is at the core of what drives Morningstar's value for all of our customer groups.. If we fail to continuously innovate and develop new tools to meet the needs of our customers, our competitive position and business results may suffer. In addition, our reputation could be harmed if we're perceived as not moving quickly enough to meet the changing needs of investors. Clients may also delay purchases of our currently offered research tools in anticipation of us offering new products or enhanced versions of existing products. Our competitive position and business results may also suffer if other companies are able to successfully introduce innovative, proprietary research tools that gain attention from our clients. We believe lower technology costs, the growth of open software platforms, and cloud computing technologies have lowered the barriers to entry for new competitors, making it easier for new players to enter the market. Smaller companies, including startup firms funded by private equity and venture capital, may be able to move more quickly to develop research and tools that gain a wide following.. In addition, the value of our data, research and software tools may be negatively affected by the increasing amount of information and tools that are available for free, or at low cost, through internet sources or other low-cost delivery systems. Although we believe our products and services contain value-added features and functionality that deeply embed them in our customers' workflows, such developments may over time reduce the demand for, or customers' willingness to pay for, certain of our products and services.. If we fail to introduce innovative, proprietary research tools and frameworks, we may not generate enough interest from potential clients to win new business. We cannot guarantee that we will successfully develop new product features and tools that differentiate our product offerings from those of our competitors.. 26. Table of Contents. In addition, we must make long-term investments and commit significant resources often before knowing whether such investments will result in products or services that satisfy our clients' needs or generate revenues sufficient to justify such investments. In addition, from time to time, we also incur costs to transition clients to new or enhanced products or services. Such transitions can involve material execution risks and challenges. If we are unable to manage these investments and transitions successfully, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Failing to respond to technological change, keep pace with new technology developments, or adopt a successful technology strategy may negatively affect our competitive position and business results.. We believe the technology landscape has been changing at an accelerating rate over the past several years. Changes in technology are fundamentally changing the ways investors access data and content. Examples include the shift from local network computing to cloud-based systems, the proliferation of wireless mobile devices, and rapid acceleration in the use of social media platforms.. Our software development process is based on frequently rolling out new features so that we can quickly incorporate user feedback. While some changes in technology may offer opportunities for Morningstar, we cannot guarantee that we will successfully adapt our product offerings to meet evolving customer needs. If we fail to develop and implement new technology rapidly enough, we may sacrifice new business opportunities or renewals from existing customers. We may also incur additional operating expense if major software projects take longer than anticipated. Our competitive position and business results may suffer if we fail to develop new technologies to meet client demands, if our execution speed is too slow, or if we adopt a technology strategy that doesn't align with changes in the market.. Our results could suffer if the mutual fund industry continues to experience slower growth, if actively managed equity funds continue to attract less investor attention, or if the industry continues to meaningfully consolidate.. We generate a significant portion of our revenue from products and services related to mutual funds, and part of our growth since 1984 can be attributed to favorable industry trends. The mutual fund industry has experienced substantial growth over the past 30 to 40 years, but suffered during the market downturn of 2008 and 2009. Since then, fund assets have increased, but at a slower rate than in previous years. Some of that slower growth is attributable to the growth of ETFs as a mutual fund alternative, and we have accordingly expanded our research coverage and analyst ratings to include ETFs. However, ETFs generally track passive investing strategies and charge lower management fees than active strategies, which may affect both the profitability of asset managers, on whose success we in part depend, and the perceived value of our research regarding ETFs.. A significant portion of our fund research has historically focused on equity-related funds. In addition, we are best-known for our data and analyst research on actively managed equity funds. Over the past 15 years, passively managed index funds have seen greater investor interest, and this trend has accelerated in recent years. In 2017, actively managed mutual funds suffered about $7 billion in net outflows, compared with net inflows of more than $690 billion for passively managed funds. Overall, we estimate that passively managed portfolios now account for more than one-third of combined mutual fund and ETF assets. The growth of online wealth management tools that provide automated, algorithm-based portfolio management advice, sometimes called robo-advice, may further accelerate the adoption of passively managed portfolios and reduce demand for our data and analyst research.. The growth of the mutual fund industry is also being affected by increasing merger and acquisition activity within the asset management industry, which is reducing the number of asset managers offering mutual funds and ETFs, the pruning by some mutual fund and ETF platforms of the number of funds available for purchase, and the continuing impacts of regulation, such as MiFID II's requirement that asset managers pay banks and brokers for investment research, which may be a competitive advantage for larger asset managers better able to absorb such costs.. Prolonged downturns or volatility in the financial markets, increased investor interest in other investment vehicles, or a lack of investor confidence could continue to reduce investor interest and investment activity. In addition, a continued lessening of investor interest in actively managed equity funds could decrease demand for our products, including our software, data, and analyst research.. 27. Table of Contents. Our business continuity program may not be adequate in the event of a material emergency affecting one or more of our United States or offshore business centers or adverse political or regulatory developments in countries in which we have significant data and development operations.. We have approximately 1,360 employees working at our corporate headquarters in Chicago, Illinois. These include most of our executive leadership team as well as substantial numbers of employees involved in the delivery of most of our major products and services. If our headquarters were to become unusable due to a natural disaster, a violent incident or another dangerous emergency, we might not be able to continue business operations at an acceptable level that would meet all our legal and contractual commitments. Our failure to successfully implement and deploy a business continuity plan, either at an enterprise level or with respect to particular business centers, could materially affect our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We now have approximately 950 employees working in our data and technology development center in Shenzhen, China. We rely on these employees to maintain and update our mutual fund database and work on other projects. Because China has a restrictive government under centralized control and the relationship between the United States and China is experiencing a period of increased political, military, and commercial tensions, our operations are subject to political and regulatory risk, which is inherently unpredictable. Laws and regulations relating to data privacy, security, and protection of intellectual property rights in China, as well as the enforcement environment for such laws and regulations, are in certain cases uncertain and evolving. In addition, this facility is subject from time to time to extreme weather events. The concentration of certain types of development and data work carried out at this facility also involves operational risks for parts of our network infrastructure. While we have short-term backup plans in place, it would be difficult for us to maintain and update our mutual fund database if we were unable to access our Shenzhen operations for an extended period of time. Any difficulties that we face in continuing to operate our development center in China may harm our business and have a negative impact on the products and services we provide.. We have approximately 935 employees who work at our data collection, technology and operational center in Mumbai, India. These employees maintain and update our equity database and provide shared services to many of our operations. This location is subject to extreme weather events and political unrest, including public protests which can disrupt transportation and make it difficult for employees to commute to and from work. The electrical infrastructure of Mumbai is also subject to more frequent interruptions than are experienced at our other major facilities. In addition, Mumbai has experienced and may in the future experience terrorist attacks. While we have short-term backup plans in place to address such business continuity issues, it would be challenging for us to maintain and update our equity database or continue to provide certain shared services to our worldwide operations if we were unable to access our Mumbai operations for an extended period of time.. PitchBook, which we acquired in December 2016, has approximately 230 contract employees based in Calcutta and Pune, India who support its data and research operations and approximately 100 contract employees based in Ukraine who work on software development. Ukraine has been subject to significant political unrest and military incursions. Any disruption to PitchBook's contract operations in these locations would make it difficult for PitchBook to meet its operating goals.. We could face liability related to our storage of personal information about individuals as well as portfolio and account-level information.. Customers routinely enter personal investment and financial information, including portfolio holdings, account numbers, and credit card information, on our websites. In addition, we handle increasing amounts of personally identifiable information in areas such as Morningstar Retirement Manager, Morningstar Managed Portfolios, ByAllAccounts, Morningstar Office, Enterprise Data Management, and Morningstar.com. ByAllAccounts uses technology to collect, consolidate, and transform financial account data and deliver it to any platform, and accordingly handles a large volume of personally identifiable information as part of its normal business operations.. 28. Table of Contents. Any failure to safeguard this information could damage our reputation and business results. We must continuously invest in systems, processes, and controls to guard against the risk of improper access to this information, which could be disclosed through employee errors, other inadvertent release, social engineering, failure to restrict access, or failure to properly purge and protect data. We may suffer malicious attacks by individuals or groups seeking to attack our products and services or penetrate our network and databases to gain access to personal data or to launch or coordinate distributed denial of service attacks. These attacks have become increasingly frequent, sophisticated, and difficult to detect.. Contractual commitments to customers as well as laws and industry regulations related to data protection, system availability, and privacy require us to safeguard critical data. We are also required to take appropriate steps to safeguard credit card numbers, Social Security numbers, and other information about individuals or their accounts. In the European Union, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which will become effective in May 2018, will among other things impose stringent additional requirements regarding the information to be provided to, and the consents required from, individuals to justify a business using their personal data, as well as new rights of data subjects to be forgotten, data portability rights and the right to object to certain automated decision-making processes. Given the growing concern over data privacy and identity theft, we have been and expect to continue to be subject to increased scrutiny by clients and regulators. We could be subject to liability if we were to inappropriately collect, retain, or disclose any user's personal information or if third parties were able to penetrate our network security or otherwise gain access to any user's name, address, Social Security number, account numbers, portfolio holdings, credit card information, or other personal information. We could also be subject to liability if we fail to meet the requirements of laws and regulations such as the GDPR, which contemplate substantial enterprise-level penalties for non-compliance, in a timely or thorough manner.. Compliance failures, regulatory action, or changes in laws applicable to our investment advisory or credit rating operations could adversely affect our business.. Our investment management operations are a growing part of our overall business. The securities laws and other laws that govern our investment advisory activities are complex. The activities of our investment advisory operations are subject to provisions of the Advisers Act and ERISA. In addition, Morningstar Investment Services is a broker-dealer registered under the Exchange Act and is subject to the rules of FINRA. We also provide investment advisory services in other areas around the world, and our operations are subject to additional regulations in markets outside the United States. If we fail to comply with securities laws and other regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines or other events that could have a negative effect on our business.. Over the past several years, we have also made significant investments in our credit rating business. Our Morningstar Credit Ratings, LLC subsidiary is an NRSRO that specializes in structured finance, corporate credit issuers, and financial institutions. Credit rating and research providers continue to be subject to intensive regulatory scrutiny. As an NRSRO, Morningstar Credit Ratings is subject to various requirements and regulations under the Exchange Act relating to, among other things, record-keeping, reporting, governance, and conflicts of interest. As part of its NRSRO registration, Morningstar Credit Ratings is subject to annual examination by the SEC, as well as periodic investigations by the SEC and other governmental authorities relating to matters of regulatory interest such as industry practices and personnel matters. The cost and management distraction resulting from such examinations and investigations may have a negative effect on our credit rating business.. Our index business could be negatively affected by increased regulation of benchmarks generally, which could increase the costs and risks of producing and administering indexes. Such regulations may discourage market participants from continuing to use, administer or contribute to indexes, trigger changes in the rules or methodologies relating indexes, and/or lead to declining demand for indexes.. The laws, rules, and regulations, and their interpretations, applicable to our business may change in the future, and we may not be able to comply with these changes without extensive changes to our business practices. In addition, the broad scope of our business operations makes it more difficult to monitor areas that may be subject to regulatory and compliance risk. If we fail to comply with any applicable law, rule, or regulation, we could be fined, sanctioned, or barred from providing investment advisory, credit rating or index services in the future, which could adversely affect our business.. 29. Table of Contents. An outage of our database, technology-based products and services, or network facilities could result in reduced revenue and the loss of customers, and our movement of parts of our technological infrastructure to the public cloud could expose us to various third party provider risks. The success of our business depends upon our ability to deliver time-sensitive, up-to-date data and information. We rely primarily on our computer equipment, database storage facilities, and other network equipment, which is located across multiple facilities in the United States. We also have extensive information systems outside the United States. Our mission-critical databases and networks are complex and interdependent, which increases the risk of failure. Problems in our network systems may lead to cascading effects involving product downtime, overloading of third-party data centers, and other issues that may affect our clients. Many of our client contracts contain service-level agreements that require us to meet certain obligations for delivering time-sensitive, up-to-date data and information. We may not be able to meet these obligations in the event of failure or downtime in our information systems.. Our operations and those of our suppliers and customers are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, wars, computer viruses, and other events beyond our control. Our database and network facilities may also be vulnerable to external attacks that misappropriate our data, corrupt our databases, or limit access to our information systems. To defend against these threats, we implement a series of controls focusing on both prevention and detection, including firewalls, intrusion detection systems, automated scanning and testing, server hardening, anti-virus software, training, and patch management. We make significant investments in servers, storage, and other network infrastructure to prevent incidents of network failure and downtime, but we cannot guarantee that these efforts will work as planned.. Most of our products and services currently depend heavily on our electronic delivery systems and the Internet, although we are shifting the delivery of several of our products and services to cloud-based delivery systems. Our ability to deliver information using the Internet may be impaired because of infrastructure failures, service outages at third-party Internet providers, malicious attacks, or other factors. If disruptions, failures, or slowdowns of our electronic delivery systems or the Internet occur, our ability to distribute our products and services effectively and to serve our customers may be impaired.. We maintain off-site back-up facilities for our data, but we cannot guarantee that these facilities will operate as expected during an interruption that affects our headquarters. There may be single points of failure that affect our core databases, data transfer interfaces, or storage area networks. We may not be able to fully recover data or information lost during a database or network facility outage. Any losses, service disruption, or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition.. Our gradual movement of parts of our technological infrastructure to the public cloud and software as a service (SaaS) solutions presents a variety of additional risks, including risks relating to sharing the same computing resources with other users, the use by cloud and SaaS providers of virtualization products and various security issues relating thereto, reliance on cloud and SaaS providers' authentication, authorization and access control mechanisms, a lack of control over cloud and SaaS providers' redundancy systems and fault tolerances, and a reduced ability to directly address client concerns over data security and privacy. Any disruption of or interference with our use of the public cloud or SaaS solutions, or any information security breach at any cloud or SaaS provider, could materially impact our operations and have an adverse effect on our business. Over time, a growing dependence of our technology infrastructure on the public cloud and SaaS solutions also risks us becoming overly dependent on particular suppliers, which could adversely affect the pricing we receive from such suppliers and limit our ability to transition away from such suppliers in the event of service-quality issues.. Downturns in the financial sector, global financial markets, and global economy may hurt our results, resulting in lower revenue from asset-based fees, transaction-based revenue, or other parts of our business.. Our business results are partly driven by factors outside of our control, including general economic and financial market trends. Any unfavorable changes in the environment we operate in could cause a corresponding negative effect on our business results. As a result, we may experience lower revenue, operating income, and other financial results in the event of a market downturn.. 30. Table of Contents. Many of our customers are asset management firms and other financial services companies, which are also subject to external trends and changes. For example, the financial crisis of 2008 and 2009 led to spending cutbacks among many of the companies to which we sell. Some institutional clients have implemented additional review processes for new contracts or started providing certain services, such as investment management, in-house rather than hiring outside service providers. Some institutional clients have also reduced the scope of their operations, and merger and acquisition activity in the asset management sector has in the past, and may in the future, reduce the number of potential asset management clients.. Many companies in the financial services industry have also been subject to increasing government regulation and pressure to reduce fees. In turn, many of these firms have sought to reduce their operating costs by working with fewer service providers and/or negotiating lower fees for services they purchase.. In addition, our revenue from asset-based fees may be adversely affected by market declines, cash outflows from portfolios that we help manage, and the industry-wide trend toward lower asset-based fees.. In 2017, asset-based revenue made up approximately 21% of our consolidated revenue. The amount of asset-based revenue we earn primarily depends on the value of assets on which we provide advisory services, and the size of our asset base can increase or decrease along with trends in market performance. In 2017, the U.S. and many international markets experienced substantial valuation increases. These market trends were highly favorable in terms of the value of assets we have under management or advisement, but there can be no assurance that these trends will continue and, if they do not, our asset-based revenue may be negatively affected.. Asset levels can also be affected if net inflows into the portfolios on which we provide investment advisory services drop or if these portfolios experience redemptions. A drop in net inflows or an increase in redemptions can result from a variety of factors, including overall market conditions and volatility or a decline in investment performance. If the level of assets on which we provide investment advisory or investment management services goes down, we expect our fee-based revenue to show a corresponding decline.. Our business results may also be hurt by negative trends in Internet advertising sales, which made up about 3% of consolidated revenue in 2017. Many advertisers have shifted some of their advertising spend to programmatic buying platforms that target users on other sites, which has from time to time had a negative effect on advertising revenue for our website for individual investors, Morningstar.com. We are uncertain whether this trend will continue.. Our structured credit rating business, which made up about 3% of consolidated revenue in 2017, is subject to volatility from trends in new issuance of commercial mortgage-backed securities and other structured credits. If industry-wide issuance for such securities declines, our revenue associated with this line of business may also go down. We have also expanded our coverage to include corporate credit issuers and financial institutions, which are also subject to volatility in issuance patterns based on market conditions.. Our PitchBook Data business may also be subject to cyclical trends. Many of PitchBook's clients are investment banks and other participants in the capital and merger and acquisition markets, which are subject to periodic business downturns driven by changes in such markets. During these downturns, they often seek to reduce spending on third-party services as well as the number of employees, which would directly affect the number of prospective clients for PitchBook. As a data and research provider focusing on the private capital markets (including venture capital, private equity, and M&A), PitchBook may also be subject to volatility based on the amount of activity and market interest in these areas.. Our acquisitions and other investments may not produce the results we anticipate. We have also incurred debt in connection with acquisitions, which may limit our financial flexibility.. We've completed numerous acquisitions over the past 10 years. In 2016, we acquired PitchBook. This acquisition presents several potential challenges and risks. We may not achieve the growth targets that we established for PitchBook at the time of the acquisition. The process of integration may require more resources than we anticipated. We may assume unintended liabilities or experience operating difficulties or costs that we did not anticipate. We may also fail to retain key personnel of the acquired business, including PitchBook founder and chief executive officer John Gabbert, which would make it difficult to follow through on our operating goals for the acquisition. If our acquisition of PitchBook does not generate the results we anticipate, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may also fail to generate enough revenue or profits from this acquisition to earn a positive return on the associated purchase price.. 31. Table of Contents. To fund this acquisition, we increased the principal amount available for borrowing under our existing revolving credit facility to $300.0 million and extended the term of this facility to three years. Under the terms of our agreement with the lender, we are now subject to certain restrictions and financial covenants, which may limit our financial flexibility. As of December 31, 2017, borrowings in the principal amount of $180.0 million remain outstanding under such facility.. In 2017, we purchased a 40% interest in Sustainalytics Holding B.V. (Sustainalytics), a leading global provider of environmental, social and governance (ESG) research and ratings. While we obtained various rights in connection with that investment, including representation on Sustainalytics' Board of Directors, we do not own a controlling interest in Sustainalytics and the future value of our investment is highly dependent on the management skill of the managers of Sustainalytics.. We expect to continue making acquisitions and establishing investments and joint ventures as part of our long-term business strategy. Acquisitions, investments, and joint ventures involve a number of risks. They can be time-consuming and may divert management's attention from day-to-day operations, particularly if numerous acquisitions are in process at the same time. Financing an acquisition could result in dilution from issuing equity securities, reduce our financial flexibility because of reductions in our cash balance, or result in a weaker balance sheet from incurring debt.. Our future success depends on our ability to recruit, develop, and retain qualified employees.. We experience competition for analysts, technology experts, and other employees from other companies and organizations. Competition for these employees is intense, and we may not be able to retain our existing employees or be able to recruit and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future.. Our future success also depends on the continued service of our executive officers, including Joe Mansueto, our executive chairman and controlling shareholder. At the end of 2016, Joe changed his role to focus less on our day-to-day business operations, but he remains heavily involved our strategy and overall company direction. The loss of Joe, our chief executive officer, Kunal Kapoor, or other executive officers could hurt our business, operating results, or financial condition. We do not have employment agreements, non-compete agreements, or life insurance policies in place with any of our executive officers. They may leave us and work for our competitors or start their own competing businesses.. Our operations outside of the United States involve additional challenges that we may not be able to meet.. Our operations outside of the United States generated $224.7 million in revenue in 2017, or about 25% of our consolidated revenue. There are risks inherent in doing business outside the United States, including challenges in reaching new markets because of established competitors and limited brand recognition; difficulties in staffing, managing, and integrating non-U.S. operations; difficulties in coordinating and sharing information globally; differences in laws and policies from country to country; exposure to varying legal standards, including intellectual property protection laws; potential tax exposure related to transfer pricing and other issues; heightened risk of fraud and noncompliance; and currency exchange rates and exchange controls. These risks could hamper our ability to expand around the world, which may hurt our financial performance and ability to grow.. We don't engage in currency hedging or have any positions in derivative instruments to hedge our currency risk. Our reported revenue could suffer if certain foreign currencies decline relative to the U.S. dollar, although the impact on operating income may be offset by an opposing currency impact on locally based operating expense.. 32. Table of Contents. We could face liability for the information we publish or the reports and other documents produced by our software products, including information, reports and documents based on data we obtain from other parties.. We may be subject to claims for securities law violations, defamation (including libel and slander), negligence, or other claims relating to the information we publish, including our research and ratings on issuers of structured credits and corporate credits. For example, investors may take legal action against us if they rely on published information that contains an error, or a company may claim that we have made a defamatory statement about it or its employees. Clients of our software products used by advisors or asset managers or governmental regulation of such clients may make claims against us based on software or data errors that affect investment reporting or client billing. Even though most of our contracts for such products contain limitations of our liability in such cases, we may be required to make such clients or their customers whole for any losses in order to maintain our business relationships. We could also be subject to claims based on the content that is accessible from our website through links to other websites.. We rely on a variety of outside parties as the original sources for the information we use in our published data. These sources include securities exchanges, fund companies, hedge funds, transfer agents, and other data providers. We also incorporate data from a variety of third-party sources for PitchBook Data. Accordingly, in addition to possible exposure for publishing incorrect information that results directly from our own errors, we could face liability based on inaccurate data provided to us by others.. We could be subject to claims by providers of publicly available data and information we compile from websites and other sources that we have improperly obtained that data in violation of the source's copyrights or terms of use, or based on the provisions of new legislation such as GDPR that limits the bases on which businesses can collect personal information from and about individuals. We could also be subject to claims from third parties from which we license data and information that we have used or re-distributed the data or information in ways not permitted by our license rights. Defending claims based on the information we publish could be expensive and time-consuming and could adversely impact our business, operating results, and financial condition.. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights, or claims of intellectual property infringement against us, could harm our brand and ability to compete effectively.. The steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not be adequate to safeguard our proprietary information. We rely primarily on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret rights, as well as contractual protections and technical safeguards, to protect our intellectual property rights and proprietary information. Despite these efforts, third parties may still attempt to challenge, invalidate or circumvent our rights or improperly obtain our proprietary information. Further, effective trademark, copyright, and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which we offer our services. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could harm our brand, devalue our proprietary content, and affect our ability to compete in the marketplace.. From time to time, we encounter jurisdictions in which one or more third parties have a pre-existing trademark registration in certain relevant international classes that may prevent us from registering our own marks in those jurisdictions. Our continued ability to use the \"Morningstar\" name or logo, either on a stand-alone basis or in association with certain products or services, could be compromised in those jurisdictions because of these pre-existing registrations. Similarly, from time to time, we encounter situations in certain jurisdictions where one or more third parties are already using the Morningstar name, either as part of a registered corporate name, a registered domain name or otherwise. Our ability to effectively market certain products and/or services in those locations could be adversely affected by these pre-existing usages.. We have from time to time been subject to claims by third parties alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. Such claims can also be alleged against clients, customers, or distributors of our products or services whom we have agreed to indemnify against third party claims of infringement. The defense of such claims can be costly and consume valuable management time and attention. We may be forced to settle such claims on unfavorable terms, which can include the payment of damages, the entry into royalty or licensing arrangements on commercially unfavorable terms, or the suspension of our ability to offer affected products or services. If litigation were to arise from any such claim, there can be no certainty we would prevail in it. If any of these risks were to materialize, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 33. Table of Contents. Control by a principal shareholder could adversely affect our other shareholders.. As of December 31, 2017, Joe Mansueto, our executive chairman, owned approximately 57% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, he has the ability to control substantially all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation, or sale of our assets. He also has the ability to control our management and affairs. This concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control; impede a merger, consolidation, takeover, or other business combination involving Morningstar; discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the company; or result in actions that may be opposed by other shareholders.. Fluctuations in our operating results may negatively affect our stock price.. We believe our business has relatively large fixed costs and low variable costs, which magnify the impact of revenue fluctuations on our operating results. As a result, a decline in our revenue may lead to a larger decline in operating income. In addition, because we manage our business with a long-term perspective, we generally don't make significant adjustments to our strategy or cost structure in response to short-term factors. As a result, our operating results may suffer in the short term. In addition, we do not provide earnings guidance or hold one-on-one meetings with institutional investors and research analysts. Because of this policy and limited analyst coverage on our stock, our stock price may not always reflect the intrinsic value of our business and assets. If our operating results or other operating metrics fail to meet the expectations of outside research analysts and investors, the market price of our common stock may decline.. The future sale of shares of our common stock may negatively affect our stock price.. If our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could fall. A reduction in ownership by Joe Mansueto or any other large shareholder could cause the market price of our common stock to fall. In addition, the average daily trading volume in our stock is relatively low. The lack of trading activity in our stock may lead to greater fluctuations in our stock price. Low trading volume may also make it difficult for shareholders to make transactions in a timely fashion."
