[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. While we believe the risk factors described below are all the material risks currently facing our business, additional risks we are not presently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted by these risks, and the trading price of our common stock could be adversely impacted by any of these risks. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information included in or incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto appearing elsewhere or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K.. We rely on a few large customers for a majority of our business, and the loss of any of these customers, significant changes in the prices, marketing allowances or other important terms provided to any of these customers or adverse developments with respect to the financial condition of these customers could reduce our net income and operating results.. Our net sales are concentrated among a small number of large customers. Sales to our four largest customers in the aggregate represented 88%, and sales to our largest customer represented 41% of our net sales during fiscal 2018. We are under ongoing pressure from our major customers to offer lower prices, extended payment terms, increased marketing and other allowances and other terms more favorable to these customers because our sales to these customers are concentrated, and the market in which we operate is very competitive. These customer demands have put continued pressure on our operating margins and profitability, resulted in periodic contract renegotiation to provide more favorable prices and terms to these customers and significantly increased our working capital needs. In addition, this customer concentration leaves us vulnerable to any adverse change in the financial condition of these customers. Changes in terms with, significant allowances for and collections from these customers could affect our operating results and cash flows. The loss of or a significant decline in sales to any of these customers could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Our offshore remanufacturing and logistic activities expose us to increased political and economic risks and place a greater burden on management to achieve quality standards.. Our overseas operations, especially our operations in Mexico, increase our exposure to political, criminal or economic instability in the host countries and to currency fluctuations. Risks are inherent in international operations, including:.   exchange controls and currency restrictions;.   currency fluctuations and devaluations;.   changes in local economic conditions;.   repatriation restrictions (including the imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by foreign subsidiaries);.   global sovereign uncertainty and hyperinflation in certain foreign countries;.   laws and regulations relating to export and import restrictions;.   exposure to government actions; and.   exposure to local political or social unrest including resultant acts of war, terrorism or similar events.. These and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our offshore activities and on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our overall success as a business depends substantially upon our ability to manage our foreign operations. We may not continue to succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies that are effective in each location where we do business, and failure to do so could materially and adversely impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. 10. Table of Contents. Interruptions or delays in obtaining component parts could impair our business and adversely affect our operating results.. In our remanufacturing processes, we obtain Used Cores, primarily through the core exchange program with our customers, and component parts from third-party manufacturers. We generally purchase up to 20% of our Used Cores from core brokers. Historically, the Used Core returned from customers together with purchases from core brokers have provided us with an adequate supply of Used Cores. If there was a significant disruption in the supply of Used Cores, whether as a result of increased Used Core acquisitions by existing or new competitors or otherwise, our operating activities could be materially and adversely impacted. In addition, a number of the other components used in the remanufacturing process are available from a very limited number of suppliers. We are, as a result, vulnerable to any disruption in component supply, and any meaningful disruption in this supply would materially and adversely impact our operating results.. Increases in the market prices of key component raw materials could increase the cost of our products and negatively impact our profitability.. In light of the continuous pressure on pricing which we have experienced from our large customers, we may not be able to recoup the higher costs of our products due to changes in the prices of raw materials, particularly aluminum and copper. If we are unable to recover a substantial portion of our raw materials from Used Cores returned to us by our customers through the core exchange program, the prices of Used Cores that we purchase may reflect the impact of changes in the cost of raw materials. However, we are unable to determine what adverse impact, if any, sustained raw material price increases may have on our product costs or profitability.. Substantial and potentially increasing competition could reduce our market share and significantly harm our financial performance.. While we believe that we are well positioned in the automotive aftermarket, this market is very competitive. In addition, other overseas manufacturers, particularly those located in China, are increasing their operations and could become a significant competitive force in the future. We may not be successful competing against other companies, some of which are larger than us and have greater financial and other resources at their disposal. Increased competition could put additional pressure on us to reduce prices or take other actions, which may have an adverse effect on our operating results. We may also lose significant customers or lines of business to competitors.. Our financial results are affected by automotive parts failure rates that are outside of our control.. Our operating results are affected over the long term by automotive parts failure rates. These failure rates are impacted by a number of factors outside of our control, including product designs that have resulted in greater reliability, the number of miles driven by consumers, and the average age of vehicles on the road. A reduction in the failure rates of automotive parts would adversely affect our sales and profitability.. Our operating results may continue to fluctuate significantly.. We have experienced significant variations in our annual and quarterly results of operations. These fluctuations have resulted from many factors, including shifts in the demand and pricing for our products, general economic conditions, including changes in prevailing interest rates, and the introduction of new products. Our gross profit percentage fluctuates due to numerous factors, some of which are outside of our control. These factors include the timing and level of marketing allowances provided to our customers, actual sales during the relevant period, pricing strategies, the mix of products sold during a reporting period, and general market and competitive conditions. We also incur allowances, accruals, charges and other expenses that differ from period to period based on changes in our business, which causes our operating income to fluctuate.. Our lenders may not waive future defaults under our credit agreements.. Our credit agreement with our lenders contains certain financial and other covenants. If we fail to meet any of these covenants in the future, there is no assurance that our lenders will waive any such defaults. If obtained, any such waiver may impose significant costs or covenants on us.. 11. Table of Contents. Unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect us.. We are exposed to market risk from material movements in foreign exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of the foreign countries in which we operate. In fiscal 2018, approximately 13% of our total expenses were in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As a result of our extensive operations in Mexico, our primary risk relates to changes in the rates between the U.S. dollar and the Mexican peso. To mitigate this currency risk, we enter into forward foreign exchange contracts to exchange U.S. dollars for Mexican pesos. We also enter into forward foreign exchange contracts to exchange U.S. dollars for Chinese yuan in order to mitigate risk related to our purchases and payments to our Chinese vendors. The extent to which we use forward foreign exchange contracts is periodically reviewed in light of our estimate of market conditions and the terms and length of anticipated requirements. The use of derivative financial instruments allows us to reduce our exposure to the risk that the eventual net cash outflow resulting from funding the expenses of the foreign operations will be materially affected by changes in the exchange rates. We do not engage in currency speculation or hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. These contracts generally expire in a year or less. Any change in the fair value of foreign exchange contracts is accounted for as an increase or decrease to general and administrative expenses in current period earnings.. We may continue to make strategic acquisitions of other companies or businesses and these acquisitions introduce significant risks and uncertainties, including risks related to integrating the acquired businesses and achieving benefits from the acquisitions.. In order to position ourselves to take advantage of growth opportunities, we have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include:.   the difficulty in integrating newly-acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and effective manner;.   the challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits from acquisitions;.   the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses;.   the risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our operations;.   risks associated with integrating financial reporting and internal control systems;.   difficulties in expanding information technology systems and other business processes to accommodate the acquired businesses; and.   future impairments of any goodwill of an acquired business.. We may also incur significant expenses to pursue and consummate acquisitions. Any of the foregoing, or a combination of them, could cause us to incur additional expenses and materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.. Our reliance on foreign suppliers for some of the automotive parts we sell to our customers or included in our products presents risks to our business.. A significant portion of automotive parts and components we use in our remanufacturing process are imported from suppliers located outside the U.S., including various countries in Asia. As a result, we are subject to various risks of doing business in foreign markets and importing products from abroad, such as:. <U+25CF>  significant delays in the delivery of cargo due to port security considerations;. <U+25CF>  imposition of duties, taxes, tariffs or other charges on imports;. <U+25CF>  imposition of new legislation relating to import quotas or other restrictions that may limit the quantity of our product that may be imported into the U.S. from countries or regions where we do business;. <U+25CF>  financial or political instability in any of the countries in which our product is manufactured;. <U+25CF>  potential recalls or cancellations of orders for any product that does not meet our quality standards;. 12. Table of Contents. <U+25CF>  disruption of imports by labor disputes or strikes and local business practices;. <U+25CF>  political or military conflict involving the U.S., which could cause a delay in the transportation of our products and an increase in transportation costs;. <U+25CF>  heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject imported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods;. <U+25CF>  natural disasters, disease epidemics and health related concerns, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas;. <U+25CF>  inability of our non-U.S. suppliers to obtain adequate credit or access liquidity to finance their operations; and. <U+25CF>  our ability to enforce any agreements with our foreign suppliers.. Any of the foregoing factors, or a combination of them, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of products available to us and materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.. In addition, because we depend on independent third parties to manufacture a significant portion of our wheel hub, master cylinder, and other purchased finished goods, we cannot be certain that we will not experience operational difficulties with such manufacturers, such as reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with merchandise specifications, insufficient quality controls and failure to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs.. An increase in the cost or a disruption in the flow of our imported products may significantly decrease our sales and profits.. Merchandise manufactured offshore represents a significant portion of our total product purchases. A disruption in the shipping or cost of such merchandise may significantly decrease our sales and profits. In addition, if imported merchandise becomes more expensive or unavailable, the transition to alternative sources may not occur in time to meet our demands. Merchandise from alternative sources may also be of lesser quality and more expensive than those we currently import. Risks associated with our reliance on imported merchandise include disruptions in the shipping and importation or increase in the costs of imported products. For example, common risks may be:.   raw material shortages;.   work stoppages;.   strikes and political unrest;.   problems with oceanic shipping, including shipping container shortages;.   increased customs inspections of import shipments or other factors causing delays in shipments;.   economic crises;.   international disputes and wars;.   loss of \"most favored nation\" trading status by the U. S. in relations to a particular foreign country;.   import duties;.   import quotas and other trade sanctions; and.   increases in shipping rates.. Products manufactured overseas and imported into the U.S. and other countries are subject to import restrictions and duties, which could delay their delivery or increase their cost.. During and following the 2016 U.S. presidential election, there has been discussion and commentary regarding potential significant changes to U.S. trade policies, legislation, treaties and tariffs, including NAFTA and trade policies and tariffs affecting China. There have also been discussions of a disallowance of tax deductions for imported merchandise or the imposition of unilateral tariffs on imported products. It is unknown at this time whether and to what extent new legislation will be passed into law, pending or new regulatory proposals will be adopted, international trade agreements will be negotiated, or the effect that any such action may have, either positively or negatively, on our industry, or on us. Similar to many other multinational corporations, we do a significant amount of business that would be impacted by these changes. If any new legislation and/or regulations are implemented, or if existing trade agreements are renegotiated, it may be time-consuming and expensive for us to alter our business operations in order to adapt to or comply with such changes. Such operational changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 13. Table of Contents. If our technology and telecommunications systems were to fail, or we were not able to successfully anticipate, invest in or adopt technological advances in our industry, it could have an adverse effect on our operations.. We rely on computer and telecommunications systems to communicate with our customers and vendors and manage our business. The temporary or permanent loss of our computer and telecommunications equipment and software systems, through casualty, operating malfunction, software virus or service provider failure, could disrupt our operations. In addition, our future growth may require additional investment in our systems to keep up with technological advances in our industry. If we are not able to invest in or adopt changes to our systems, or such upgrades take longer or cost more than anticipated, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected.. Cyber-attacks or other breaches of information technology security could adversely impact our business and operations.. Cyber-attacks or other breaches of network or information technology security may cause equipment failure or disruption to our operations. Such attacks, which include the use of malware, computer viruses and other means for disruption or unauthorized access, on companies have increased in frequency, scope and potential harm in recent years. While, to the best of our knowledge, we have not been subject to cyber-attacks or to other cyber incidents which, individually or in the aggregate, have been material to our operations or financial conditions, the preventive actions we take to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information technology and networks may be insufficient to repel a major cyber-attack in the future. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, it could cause significant damage to our reputation, affect our relationship with our customers, suppliers and employees, and lead to claims against us and ultimately harm our business. Additionally, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future. While we maintain specific cyber insurance coverage, which would apply in the event of various breach scenarios, the amount of coverage may not be adequate in any particular case. Furthermore, because cyber threat scenarios are inherently difficult to predict and can take many forms, some breaches may not be covered under our cyber insurance coverage.. Regulations related to conflict minerals could adversely impact our business.. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (\"Dodd-Frank\") contains provisions to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of certain minerals, known as \"conflict minerals\", originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo (\"DRC\") and adjoining countries. These rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of materials used in our products, as the number of suppliers who provide conflict-free minerals may be limited. We may also suffer reputational harm if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict-free or if we are unable to modify our products to avoid the use of such materials. We may also face challenges in satisfying customers who may require that our products be certified as containing conflict-free minerals.. The products we manufacture or contract to manufacture contain small quantities of Tin and Gold. We manufacture or contract to manufacture one product with small quantities of Tantalum. For the reporting year ending December 31, 2017, 100% of applicable suppliers responded to our request for information on sourcing of their \"conflict minerals.\" This inquiry yielded 192 smelters, refiners, or metal processing facilities for these minerals that are, or could be, in our supply chain. Of these, 89% were validated as conflict-free, per publicly available information on the Conflict Free Sourcing Initiative website. For the majority of the remaining entities reported to us, there is insufficient data for the industry to determine the source of materials for their smelters.. 14. Table of Contents. Our strategy for managing risks associated with conflict minerals in products includes continuing to encourage our suppliers to engage in conflict-free sourcing, and obtaining data from our suppliers that is more applicable to the products we purchase. We continue to monitor progress on industry efforts to ascertain whether some facilities that suppliers identified are actually smelters. We do not believe conflict minerals pose risk to our operations. We are a member of the Automobile Industry Action Group (AIAG), and support their efforts in the conflict minerals area.. Natural disasters or other disruptions in our business in California and Baja California, Mexico could increase our operating expenses or cause us to lose revenues.. A substantial portion of our operations are located in California and Baja California, Mexico, including our headquarters, remanufacturing and warehouse facilities. Any natural disaster, such as an earthquake, or other damage to our facilities from weather, fire or other events could cause us to lose inventory, delay delivery of orders to customers, incur additional repair-related expenses, disrupt our operations or otherwise harm our business. These events could also disrupt our information systems, which would harm our ability to manage our operations worldwide and compile and report financial information. As a result, we could incur additional expenses or liabilities or lose revenues, which could exceed any insurance coverage and would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Weakness in conditions in the global credit markets and macroeconomic factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Any weakness in the credit markets could result in significant constraints on liquidity and availability of borrowing terms from lenders and accounts payable with vendors. Modest economic growth in most major industrial countries in the world and uncertain prospects for continued growth threaten to cause tightening of the credit markets, more stringent lending standards and terms, and higher interest rates. The persistence of these conditions could have a material adverse effect on our borrowings and the availability, terms and cost of such borrowings. In addition, deterioration in the U.S. economy could materially and adversely impact our operating results.. Our stock price may be volatile and could decline substantially.. Our stock price may decline substantially as a result of developments in our business, the volatile nature of the stock market, and other factors beyond our control. The stock market has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Many factors may cause the market price for our common stock to decline, including (i) our operating results failing to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in any period, (ii) downward revisions in securities analysts' estimates, (iii) market perceptions concerning our future earnings prospects, (iv) public or private sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, and (v) adverse changes in general market conditions or economic trends.. Our failure to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in material misstatements in our financial statements.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (\"SOX\") requires our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting at the end of each fiscal year and certify whether or not internal control over financial reporting is effective. Our independent accountants are also required to express an opinion with respect to the effectiveness of our internal controls. Any failure to maintain or implement new or improved internal controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations (which may result in our failure to maintain the listing standards for our common stock) or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under SOX.. 15. Table of Contents. Uncertainties in the interpretation and application of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted comprehensive tax legislation, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"). The Tax Act requires complex computations not previously required by U.S. tax law. As such, the application of accounting guidance for such items is currently uncertain. Further, compliance with the Tax Act and the accounting for such provisions require preparation and analysis of information not previously required or regularly produced. In addition, the U.S. Department of Treasury has broad authority to issue regulations and interpretative guidance that may significantly impact how we will apply the Tax Act and impact our results of operations in future periods. Accordingly, while we have provided a provisional estimate on the effect of the Tax Act in our accompanying audited financial statements, further regulatory or GAAP accounting guidance for the law, our further analysis on the application of the law, and refinement of our initial estimates and calculations could materially change our current provisional estimates, which could, in turn, materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate. There may also be significant future effects that these tax reforms will have on our financial results and our business strategies. In addition, there is a risk that states or foreign jurisdictions may amend their tax laws in response to these tax reforms, which could have a material impact on our future results."
