[1] "Item 1A: Risk Factors. We face a number of risks related to current global economic and political conditions, including low economic growth rates in certain markets, the impact of currency fluctuations, commodity price volatility, and unstable political conditions that have and could continue to unfavorably impact our business.. Global economic and political conditions continue to be challenging for many of our government and commercial markets, as economic growth in many countries, particularly in parts of Latin America and in other emerging markets, has remained low or declined, currency fluctuations have impacted profitability, credit markets have remained tight for certain counterparties of ours and many of our customers remain dependent on government grants to fund purchases of our products and services. In addition, conflicts in the Middle East and elsewhere have created many economic and political uncertainties that continue to impact worldwide markets. The length of time these adverse economic and political conditions may persist is unknown. These global economic and political conditions have impacted and could continue to impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows in a number of ways, including:. •Requests by Customers for Vendor Financing by Motorola Solutions: Certain customers of ours, particularly, but not limited to, those who purchase large infrastructure systems, request that their suppliers provide financing in connection with equipment purchases and/or the provision of solutions and services, particularly as the size and length of these types of contracts increases and as we increase our business in developing countries. Requests for vendor financing continue to increase in volume and scope, including in response to reduced tax revenue at the state and local government level and ongoing tightening of credit for certain commercial customers. Motorola Solutions has continued to provide vendor financing to both our government and commercial customers. We have been faced with and expect to continue to be faced with choosing between further increasing our level of vendor financing or potentially losing sales, as some of our competitors, particularly those in Asia, have been more willing to provide vendor financing to customers around the world, particularly customers in Africa and Latin America. To the extent we are unable to sell these receivables on terms acceptable to us we may retain exposure to the credit quality of our customers who we finance.. •Customers' Inability to Obtain Financing to Make Purchases from Motorola Solutions and/or Maintain Their Business: Some of our customers require substantial financing, including public financing or government grants, in order to fund their operations and make purchases from us. The inability of these customers to obtain sufficient credit or other funds, including as a result of lower tax revenues, currency fluctuations or unavailability of government grants, to finance purchases of our products and services and/or to meet their payment obligations to us could have, and in some cases has had, a negative impact on our financial results. This risk increases as the size and length of our contracts increase. In addition, if global economic conditions result in insolvencies for our customers, it will negatively impact our financial results.. •Challenges in Budgeting and Forecasting: It is difficult to estimate changes in various parts of the U.S. and world economy, including the markets in which we participate. Components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of demand for our products and estimates of foreign exchange rates. The prevailing economic uncertainties render estimates of future income and expenditures challenging.. •Potential Deferment or Cancellation of Purchases and Orders by Customers: Uncertainty about current and future global economic conditions may cause, and in some cases has caused, businesses and governments to defer or cancel purchases in response to tighter credit, decreased cash availability and de-prioritization of communications equipment within the budgeting process. If future demand for our products declines due to economic conditions, it will negatively impact our financial results.. 8. •Inability to Operate and Grow in Certain Markets: We operate in a number of markets with a risk of intensifying political instability, including Europe, Russia, Brazil, the Middle East and Africa. If political instability continues in these markets and in other parts of the world in which we operate it could have a significant impact on our ability to grow and, in some cases, operate in those locations, which will negatively impact our financial results.. A security breach or other significant disruption of our IT systems, those of our outsource partners, suppliers or those we manufacture, install, and in some cases operate and maintain for our customers, caused by cyber attack or other means, could have a negative impact on our operations, sales, and operating results.. All information technology systems are potentially vulnerable to damage, unauthorized access or interruption from a variety of sources, including but not limited to, cyber attack, cyber intrusion, computer viruses, security breach, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, sabotage, war, insider trading, and telecommunication failures. As a provider of mission-critical communications systems for customers in critical infrastructure sectors of the U.S. and globally, including systems that we operate and maintain for certain customers of ours, we face additional risk as a target of sophisticated attacks aimed at compromising both our Company's and our customers' sensitive information and intellectual property, through means referred to as advanced persistent threats. This risk is heightened because these systems may contain sensitive governmental information or personally identifiable or other protected information. While we employ a number of countermeasures and security controls, including training and audits and utilization of commercial information security threat sharing networks to protect against such attacks, we, along with the industry, have experienced a gradual and steady increase in the sophistication of these threats, most noticeably through well-crafted social engineering and phishing attempts. We cannot guarantee that all threat attempts will be successfully thwarted even with these countermeasures and we are therefore investing more in detection and response capabilities to minimize potential impacts. Further, we are dependent, in certain instances, upon our outsourced business partners, suppliers, and customers to adequately protect our IT systems and those IT systems that we manage for our customers. In addition, some of our customers are exploring broadband solutions that use public carrier networks on which our solutions would operate. We do not have direct oversight or influence over how public carrier networks manage the security, quality, or resiliency of their networks, and because they are an attractive high value target due to their role in critical infrastructure, they expose customers to an elevated risk over our private networks.. Our Company outsources certain business operations, including, but not limited to IT, HR information systems, manufacturing, repair, distribution and engineering services. These arrangements are governed by various contracts and agreements which reference and mandate Company and international standards of information protection, as appropriate. In addition, we maintain certain networked equipment at customer locations and are reliant on those customers to protect and maintain that equipment. The \"attack surface\" for us to protect against our adversaries is thus often extended to these partners and customers, as well as our suppliers, and we have some dependency upon their cyber security capabilities as well as their willingness to exchange threat and response information with us. A cyber attack or other significant disruption involving our IT systems or those of our outsource partners, suppliers or our customers could result in the unauthorized release of proprietary, confidential or sensitive information of ours or our customers. Such unauthorized access to, or release of, this information could: (i) allow others to unfairly compete with us, (ii) compromise safety or security, given the mission-critical nature of our customers' systems, (iii) subject us to claims for breach of contract, tort, and other civil claims, and (iv) damage our reputation. We could face regulatory penalties, enforcement actions, remediation obligations and/or private litigation by parties whose data is improperly disclosed or misused. In addition, there has been a sharp increase in laws in Europe, the U.S. and elsewhere, imposing requirements for the handling of personal data, including data of employees, consumers and business contacts, as well as imposing requirements for remediation action, including specific timing and method of notification. There is a risk that our Company, directly or as the result of some third-party service provider we use, could be found to have failed to comply with the laws or regulations of some country regarding the collection, consent, handling, transfer, retention or disposal of such personal data, and therefore subject us to fines or other sanctions. The European Courts invalidation of Safe Harbor as a mechanism to legitimize cross border data flows increases the risk that our Company, directly or through some third-party service provider that we use, may inappropriately transfer EU personal data. Any or all of the foregoing could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow.. A significant amount of our international business is transacted in local currency and a significant percentage of our cash and cash equivalents are held outside of the United States, which exposes us to risk relating to currency fluctuations, changes in foreign exchange regulations and repatriation delays and costs, which could negatively impact our sales, profitability and financial flexibility.. We have sizable sales and operations in Canada and our Europe, Middle East and Africa, Asia, and Latin America regions.. A significant amount of this business is transacted in local currency. As a result, our financial performance is impacted by currency fluctuations. We are also experiencing increased pressure to agree to established currency conversion rates and cost of living adjustments as a result of foreign currency fluctuations or the requirement to transact business in local currencies.. A significant percentage of our cash and cash equivalents is currently held outside the U.S. and we continue to generate profits outside of the U.S., while many of our liabilities, such as our public debt, the majority of our pension liabilities and certain other cash payments, such as dividends and share repurchases, are payable in the U.S. While we have regularly repatriated funds with minimal adverse impact, repatriation of some of the funds has been and could continue to be subject to delay for local country approvals and could have potential adverse tax consequences. In addition, foreign exchange regulations may limit our ability to convert or repatriate foreign currency. As a result of having a lower amount of cash and cash equivalents in the U.S., our financial flexibility may be reduced.. 9. We face uncertainty in the global geopolitical landscape that may impede the implementation of our strategy outside the United States.. In June 2016, the United Kingdom (the \"U.K\") held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the European Union (\"E.U.\"), commonly referred to as Brexit. It is expected that the U.K. government will initiate a process to withdraw from the E.U. and begin negotiating the terms of its separation. The announcement of Brexit has resulted in volatility in the global stock market and currency exchange rate fluctuations that resulted in strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to other foreign currencies in which we conduct business. The announcement of Brexit and likely withdrawal of the U.K. from the E.U. may also create global economic uncertainty, which may cause our customers to closely monitor their costs and reduce their spending budgets. In addition, there may be uncertainty as to the position the United States will take with respect to certain treaty and trade relationships with other countries. This uncertainty may impact (i) the ability or willingness of non-U.S. companies to transact business in the United States, including with our Company, (ii) regulation and trade agreements affecting U.S. companies, (iii) global stock markets and (iv) general global economic conditions. All of these factors are outside of our control, but may cause us to adjust our strategy in order to compete effectively in global markets and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. A portion of our business is dependent upon U.S. government contracts and grants, which are highly regulated and subject to oversight audits by U.S. government representatives and subject to cancellations. Such audits could result in adverse findings and negatively impact our business.. Our U.S. government business is subject to specific procurement regulations with numerous compliance requirements. These requirements, although customary in government contracting in the U.S., increase our performance and compliance costs. These costs may increase in the future, thereby reducing our margins, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Failure to comply with these regulations or other compliance requirements could lead to suspension or debarment from U.S. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. Among the causes for debarment are violations of various laws or policies, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, U.S. government security regulations, employment practices, protection of criminal justice data, protection of the environment, accuracy of records, proper recording of costs, foreign corruption and the False Claims Act.. Generally, in the U.S. government contracts and grants are subject to oversight audits by government representatives. Such audits could result in adjustments to our contracts. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract may not be allowed, and such costs already reimbursed may have to be refunded. Future audits and adjustments, if required, may materially reduce our revenues or profits upon completion and final negotiation of audits. Negative audit findings could also result in investigations, termination of a contract or grant, forfeiture of profits or reimbursements, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government. All contracts with the U.S. government are subject to cancellation at the convenience of the U.S. government.. In addition, contacts with government officials and participation in political activities are areas that are tightly controlled by federal, state, local and international laws. Failure to comply with these laws could cost us opportunities to seek certain government sales opportunities or even result in fines, prosecution, or debarment.. Government regulation of radio frequencies may limit the growth of public safety broadband systems or reduce barriers to entry for new competitors.. Radio frequencies are required to provide wireless services. The allocation of frequencies is regulated in the U.S. and other countries and limited spectrum is allocated to wireless services and specifically to public safety users. The growth of public safety broadband communications systems may be affected: (i) by regulations relating to the access to allocated spectrum for public safety users, (ii) if adequate frequencies are not allocated, or (iii) if new technologies are not developed to better utilize the frequencies currently allocated for such use. Industry growth may also be affected by new licensing fees required to use frequencies.. The U.S. leads the world in allocating spectrum to enable wireless communications including LTE. Other countries have also allocated spectrum to allow deployment of these and other technologies. This changing landscape may introduce new competition and new opportunities for us.. MSI's opportunities to sell LTE equipment and related software and services in the U.S will be substantially impacted by: (1) AT&T's success in satisfying contract requirements and milestones, including, among others, subscriber adoption rate, mandatory payments to FirstNet, and coverage and (2) fiscal, public, and regulatory policies and/or special interest politics that risk delaying deployment.. We derive a portion of our revenue from government customers who award business through competitive bidding which can involve significant upfront costs and risks. This effort may not result in awards of business or we may fail to accurately estimate the costs to fulfill contracts awarded to us, which could have adverse consequences on our future profitability.. Many government customers, including most U.S. government customers, award business through a competitive bidding process, which results in greater competition and increased pricing pressure. The competitive bidding process involves significant cost and managerial time to prepare bids for contracts that may not be awarded to us. Even if we are awarded contracts, we may fail to accurately estimate the resources and costs required to fulfill a contract, or to resolve problems with our subcontractors or suppliers, which could negatively impact the profitability of any contract award to us, particularly in the case of. 10. fixed price contracts. In addition, following the award of a contract, we have experienced and may continue to experience significant expense or delay, contract modification or contract rescission as a result of customer delay or our competitors protesting or challenging contracts awarded to us in competitive bidding.. We enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event we fail to properly estimate our costs or hedge our risks associated with currency fluctuations.. We enter into a number of firm fixed-price contracts. If our initial cost estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts. Because certain of these contracts involve new technologies and applications, require us to engage subcontractors and/or can last multiple years, unforeseen events, such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the price of raw materials, problems with our subcontractors or suppliers and other cost overruns, can result in the contract pricing becoming less favorable or even unprofitable to us and have an adverse impact on our financial results. In addition, a significant increase in inflation rates or currency fluctuations could have an adverse impact on the profitability of longer-term contracts.. The expansion of our solutions and services business creates new competitors and new and increased areas of risk that we have not been exposed to in the past and that we may not be able to properly assess or mitigate.. We plan to continue to expand our solutions and services business by offering additional and expanded managed services for existing and new types of customers, such as designing, building, operating, managing and in some cases owning a public- safety system or other commercial system. The offering of managed services involves the integration of multiple services, multiple vendors and multiple technologies, requiring that we partner with other solutions and services providers, often on multiyear projects.. Additionally, our managed services business will be expanded to include the hosting of software applications. This allows the customers to \"consume\" the software \"as a service\" and avoid the costs and complexities of acquiring and operating the software.. •We may recognize revenue over time as a services offering, rather than at a point in time as with a traditional equipment sale, which will extend revenue recognition over the length of the services contracts, which may be several years.. •The managed services business is one characterized by large subcontracting arrangements and we may not be able to obtain favorable contract terms including adequate indemnities, performance commitments or other protections from our subcontractors to adequately mitigate our exposure to our customers.. •We may face increasing competition from traditional system integrators and the defense industry as solutions and services contracts become larger and more complicated.. •Expansion will bring us into contact with new regulatory requirements and restrictions, such as data security or data residency/localization obligations, with which we will have to comply and may increase the costs of doing business, reduce margins and delay or limit the range of new solutions and services which we will be able to offer.. •We may be required to agree to specific performance metrics that meet the customer's requirements for network security, availability, reliability, maintenance and support and, in some cases, if these performance metrics are not met we may not be paid.. We may not continue to have access to the capital markets for financing on acceptable terms and conditions, particularly if our credit ratings are downgraded, which could limit our ability to repay our indebtedness and could cause liquidity issues.. From time to time we access the capital markets to obtain financing. Our access to the capital markets and the bank credit markets at acceptable terms and conditions are impacted by many factors, including: (i) our credit ratings, (ii) the liquidity of the overall capital markets, (iii) strength and credit availability in the banking markets, and (iv) the current state of the global economy. In addition, we frequently access the credit markets to obtain performance bonds, bid bonds, standby letters of credit and surety bonds, as well as to hedge foreign exchange risk and sell receivables. In addition, there can be no assurances we will be able to refinance our existing indebtedness (i) on commercially reasonable terms, (ii) on terms, including with respect to interest rates, as favorable as our current debt, or (iii) at all. There can be no assurances that we will continue to have access to the capital markets or bank credit markets on terms acceptable to us and if we are unable to repay or refinance our debt, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to generate enough cash flows from operations or that we will be able to obtain enough capital to service our debt, fund our planned capital expenditures or pay future dividends.. We are rated investment grade by all three national rating agencies. Any downward changes by the rating agencies to our credit rating may negatively impact the value and liquidity of both our debt and equity securities. Under certain circumstances, an increase in the interest rate payable by us under our revolving credit facility, if any amounts were borrowed under such facility, could negatively affect our operating cash flows. In addition, a downgrade in our credit ratings could limit our ability to: (i) access the capital markets or bank credit markets, (ii) provide performance bonds, bid bonds, standby letters of credit and surety bonds, (iii) hedge foreign exchange risk, (iv) fund our foreign affiliates, and (v) sell receivables. A downgrade in our credit rating could also result in less favorable trade terms with suppliers. In addition, any downgrades in our credit ratings may affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future and may affect the terms of any such financing. Any future disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital markets may result in higher funding costs for us and adversely affect our ability to access funds and other credit related products. In addition, we may avoid taking actions that would otherwise benefit us or our stockholders, such as engaging in certain acquisitions or engaging in stock repurchases, that would negatively impact our credit rating.. 11. Our future operating results depend on our ability to purchase at acceptable prices a sufficient amount of materials, parts, and components, as well as services and software to meet the demands of our customers and any disruption to our suppliers or significant increase in the price of supplies could have a negative impact on our results of operations.. Our ability to meet customers' demands depends, in part, on our ability to timely obtain an adequate delivery of quality materials, parts, and components, as well as services and software from our suppliers. In addition, certain supplies, including for some of our critical components, are available only from a single source or limited sources and we may not be able to diversify sources in a timely manner. If demand for our products or services increases from our current expectations or if suppliers are unable to meet our demand for other reasons, including as a result of natural disasters or financial issues, we could experience an interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies, including as a result of having to move to an alternative source, that could have a negative impact on our business as a result of increased cost or delay in or inability to deliver our products. This risk may increase as a result of consolidation of certain suppliers of ours. We have experienced shortages in the past that have negatively impacted our results of operations and may experience such shortages in the future. In addition, credit constraints at our suppliers could cause us to accelerate payment of accounts payable by us, impacting our cash flow.. We have seen and expect to continue to see increases in the price of certain supplies as we no longer qualify for certain volume discounts given our significant decrease in direct material spend over the last several years as a result of our spin-offs and divestitures. We have also experienced less support and focus from our suppliers as our spend has diminished, making it more difficult for us to resolve gaps in supply due to unforeseen changes in forecast and demand. In addition, our current contractual arrangements with certain suppliers may be cancelled or not extended by such suppliers and, therefore, not afford us with sufficient protection against a reduction or interruption in supplies. Moreover, in the event any of these suppliers breach their contracts with us, our legal remedies associated with such a breach may be insufficient to compensate us for any damages we may suffer.. Over the last several years we have outsourced portions of certain business operations like IT, HR information systems, manufacturing, repair, distribution and engineering services and expect to outsource additional business operations. This outsourcing limits our control over these business operations and exposes us to additional risk as a result of the actions of our outsource partners.. As we outsource more of our business operations we are not able to directly control these activities. Our outsource partners may not prioritize our business over that of their other customers and they may not meet our desired level of quality, performance, service, cost reductions or other metrics. Failure to meet key performance indicators may result in our being in default with our customers. In addition, we may rely on our outsource partners to secure materials from our suppliers with whom our outsource partners may not have existing relationships and we may be required to continue to manage these relationships even after we outsource certain business operations.. As we outsource business operations we become dependent on the IT systems of our outsource partners, including to transmit demand and purchase orders to suppliers, which can result in a delay in order placement. In addition, in an effort to reduce costs and limit their liabilities, our outsource partners may not have robust systems or make commitments in as timely a manner as we require.. In some cases the actions of our outsource partners may result in our being found to be in violation of laws or regulations like import or export regulations. As many of our outsource partners operate outside of the U.S., our outsourcing activity exposes us to information security vulnerabilities and increases our global risks. In addition, we are exposed to the financial viability of our outsource partners. Once a business activity is outsourced we may be contractually prohibited from or may not practically be able to bring such activity back within the Company or move it to another outsource partner. The actions of our outsource partners could result in reputational damage to us and could negatively impact our business, financial conditions, results of operations, and cash flows.. Our sales within a quarter are not linear, with a substantial percentage of products shipping in the final month of the quarter. This lack of linearity creates inefficiencies in our business performance and any interruption during this final month could have a substantial impact on our quarterly financial results.. On average, a substantial percentage of our quarterly sales ship in the final month of a quarter. Any interruption in our ability to ship products during this final month, such as unavailability of critical components, disruption to our manufacturing capabilities or disruptions in our distribution channel, will have a disproportionately large impact on our quarterly financial results, as we may be unable to recover in time to ship the products and recognize revenue in that quarter.. In addition, this lack of linearity results in inefficiencies in our financial performance, as we must invest in capacity and resources to support this business model, meaning we have underutilized operations during the first two months of the quarter. We also must maintain additional component inventory and engage in pre-builds of finished goods to mitigate the impact of this lack of linearity and meet potential last month demand. This could result in our carrying excess inventory, which is costly and may result in increased inventory obsolescence over time.. 12. We no longer own certain logos and other trademarks, trade names and service marks, including MOTOROLA, MOTO, MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS and the Stylized M logo and all derivatives and formatives thereof (\"Motorola Marks\") and we license the Motorola Marks from Motorola Trademark Holdings, LLC (\"MTH\"), which is currently owned by Motorola Mobility, a subsidiary of Lenovo. Our joint use of the Motorola Marks could result in product and market confusion and negatively impact our ability to expand our business under the Motorola brand. In addition, if we do not comply with the terms of the license agreement we could lose our rights to the Motorola Marks. Because of the change of control of Motorola Mobility, which is now owned by Lenovo, we may find that an incompatible third-party owns the Motorola Marks.. We have a worldwide, perpetual and royalty-free license from MTH to use the Motorola Marks as part of our corporate name and in connection with the manufacture, sale, and marketing of our current products and services. The license of the Motorola Marks is important to us because of the reputation of the Motorola brand for our products and services. There are risks associated with both Motorola Mobility and the Company using the Motorola Marks and with this loss of ownership. As both Motorola Mobility and the Company will be using the Motorola Marks, confusion could arise in the market, including customer confusion regarding the products offered by and the actions of the two companies. Motorola Mobility was acquired by Lenovo in 2014, which resulted in Lenovo having effective control over the Motorola Marks. This risk could increase as both Motorola Mobility's and our products continue to converge. This risk could increase under Lenovo's control if they expand their use of the Motorola Marks. Also, any negative publicity associated with either company in the future could adversely affect the public image of the other. In addition, because our license of the Motorola Marks will be limited to products and services within our specified fields of use, we will not be permitted to use the Motorola Marks in other fields of use without the approval of Motorola Mobility, which is now controlled by Lenovo. In the event that we desire to expand our business into any other fields of use, we may need to do so with a brand other than the Motorola brand. Developing a brand as well-known and with as much brand equity as Motorola could take considerable time and expense. The risk of needing to develop a second brand increases as Motorola Mobility's and our products continue to converge and if our business expands into other fields of use. In addition, we could lose our rights to use the Motorola Marks if we do not comply with the terms of the license agreement. Such a loss could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, MTH has the right to license the brand to third- parties and either Motorola Mobility or licensed third-parties may use the brand in ways that make the brand less attractive for customers of Motorola Solutions, creating increased risk that Motorola Solutions may need to develop an alternate or additional brand. In 2013 Motorola Mobility modified certain Motorola Marks used by the Company. Motorola Mobility may require the Company to adopt the use of the modified Motorola Marks, which would result in the Company incurring the costs of rebranding.. In addition, neither Motorola Mobility nor Lenovo are prohibited from selling the Motorola Marks. In the event of a liquidation of Motorola Mobility or the then owner of the Motorola Marks, it is possible that a bankruptcy court would permit the Motorola Marks to be assigned to a third-party. While our right to use the Motorola Marks under our license should continue in our specified field of use in such situations, it is possible that we could be party to a license arrangement with a third-party whose interests are incompatible with ours, thereby potentially making the license arrangement difficult to administer, and increasing the costs and risks associated with sharing the Motorola Marks. In addition, there is a risk that, in the event of a bankruptcy of Motorola Mobility or the then owner of the Motorola Marks, Motorola Mobility, the then owner or its bankruptcy trustee may attempt to reject the license, or a bankruptcy court may refuse to uphold the license or certain of its terms. Such a loss could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We utilize the services of subcontractors to perform under many of our contracts and the inability of our subcontractors to perform in a timely and compliant manner could negatively impact our ability to comply with our performance obligations as the prime contractor.. We engage subcontractors, including third-party integrators, on many of our contracts and as we expand our solutions and services business our use of subcontractors has and will continue to increase. Our subcontractors may further subcontract performance and may supply third-party products and software from a number of smaller companies. We may have disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor or its subcontractors and the functionality, warranty and indemnities of products, software and services supplied by our subcontractor. We are not always successful in passing down customer requirements to our subcontractors, and thus in some cases may be required to absorb contractual risks from our customers without corresponding back-to-back coverage from our subcontractor. Even when we are able to pass down customer requirements to our subcontractors, sometimes those subcontractors have less financial resources than we do, and a customer may look to us to cover a loss or damage. Our subcontractors may not be able to acquire or maintain the quality of the materials, components, subsystems and services they supply, or secure preferred warranty and indemnity coverage from their suppliers which might result in greater product returns, service problems, warranty claims and costs and regulatory compliance issues. Any of the foregoing could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Failure of our suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers and representatives to use acceptable legal or ethical business practices and adhere to our Supplier Code of Conduct or our Human Rights Policy could negatively impact our business.. It is our policy to require our suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers, and third-party sales representatives (\"TPSRs\") to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices, environmental compliance, anti-corruption and trademark and copyright licensing. However, we do not control their labor and other business practices. If one of our suppliers, subcontractors, brokers, distributors, resellers, or TPSRs violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are regarded as unethical, the shipment of finished. 13. products to us could be interrupted, orders could be canceled, relationships could be terminated and our reputation could be damaged. If one of our suppliers or subcontractors fails to procure necessary license rights to trademarks, copyrights or patents, legal action could be taken against us that could impact the salability of our products and expose us to financial obligations to a third-party. Any of these events could have a negative impact on our sales and results of operations.. Our employees, customers, suppliers and outsource partners are located throughout the world and, as a result, we face risks that other companies that are not global may not face.. Most of our products that are manufactured by or for us outside the U.S. are manufactured in Malaysia. If manufacturing in our facility, or a facility manufacturing products for us, in Malaysia is disrupted, our overall capacity would be significantly reduced and our business, financial condition, results of operation, and cash flows could be negatively impacted.. Our customers and suppliers are located throughout the world. In 2017, approximately 42% percent of our revenue was generated outside the U.S. In addition, we have a number of research and development, administrative and sales facilities outside the U.S. and more than 54% of our employees are employed outside the U.S. Most of our suppliers' operations are outside the U.S. and most of our products are manufactured outside the U.S., both internally and by third-parties.. Because we have sizable sales and operations, including outsourcing and procurement arrangements, outside of the U.S., we have more complexity in our operations and are exposed to a unique set of global risks that could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, including but not limited to: (i) currency fluctuations, (ii) import/export regulations, tariffs, trade barriers and trade disputes, customs classifications and certifications, including but not limited to changes in classifications or errors or omissions related to such classifications and certifications, (iii) changes in U.S. and non-U.S. rules related to trade, environmental, health and safety, technical standards, consumer and intellectual property and consumer protection, (iv) longer payment cycles, (v) tax issues, such as tax law changes, variations in tax laws from country to country and as compared to the U.S., obligations under tax incentive agreements, difficulties in repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and difficulties in securing local country approvals for cash repatriations, (vi) changes in foreign exchange regulations, (vii) challenges in collecting accounts receivable, (viii) cultural and language differences, (ix) employment regulations and local labor conditions, (x) privacy and data protection regulations and restrictions, (xi) difficulties protecting intellectual property in foreign countries, (xii) instability in economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts and terrorism, (xiii) natural disasters, (xiv) public health issues or outbreaks,(xv) changes in laws or regulations that negatively impact benefits being received by us or that require costly modifications in products sold or operations performed in such countries, (xvi) litigation in foreign court systems and foreign enforcement or administrative proceedings, and (xvii) applicability of anti-corruption laws including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\") and the U.K. Bribery Act.. We have a number of employees, contractors, representatives and agents in, and sell our products and services throughout, the Middle East and our operations, as well as demand for our products and services, could be negatively impacted by political conflicts and hostilities in this region. The potential for future unrest, terrorist attacks, increased global conflicts, hostility against U.S.-based multinational companies and the escalation of existing conflicts has created worldwide uncertainties that have negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, demand for certain products of ours.. We also are subject to risks that our operations could be conducted by our employees, contractors, representatives or agents in ways that violate the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act, or other similar anti-corruption laws. While we have policies and procedures to comply with these laws, our employees, contractors, representatives and agents may take actions that violate our policies. Any such violations could have a negative impact on our business. Moreover, we face additional risks that our anti- corruption policies and procedures may be violated by TPSRs or other third-parties that help sell our products or provide other solutions and services, because such TPSRs and other third parties are not our employees, and, it is therefore more difficult to oversee [and control] their conduct.. Many of our components and some of our products, including software, are developed and/or manufactured by third- parties and in some cases designed by third-parties and if such third-parties lack sufficient quality control, change the design of components or if there are significant changes in the financial or business condition of such third-parties, it may have a negative impact on our business.. We rely on third-parties to develop and/or manufacture many of our components and some of our finished products, and to design certain components and finished products, as well as provide us with software necessary for the operation of those products and we may increase our reliance on such third-parties in the future. We could have difficulties fulfilling our orders and our sales and profits could decline if: (i) we are not able to engage such third-parties with the capabilities or capacities required by our business, (ii) such third-parties lack sufficient quality control or fail to deliver quality components, products, services or software on time and at reasonable prices, or deliver products, services or software that do not meet regulatory or industry standards or requirements, (iii) if there are significant changes in the financial or business condition of such third-parties, or (iv) if we have difficulties transitioning operations to such third-parties.. Because of the long life-cycle of many of our products, we need access to limited quantities of components for manufacturing and repair and suppliers have been and may continue to be unwilling to manufacture such components or may only do so at high prices. Certain key component suppliers are reducing the expected lifetime of key components, in particular semiconductor and electrical components, on some of our products. This could result in the need for more frequent product redesigns and increased engineering costs on some products or costly last time buys, which may negatively impact our financial performance. In addition, we may be unable to meet our repair obligations to our customers.. 14. We are exposed to risks under large, multi-year system and solutions and services contracts that may negatively impact our business.. We enter into large, multi-year system and solutions and services contracts with large municipal, state, and nationwide government and commercial customers. In some cases we may not be the prime contractor and may be dependent on other third-parties such as commercial carriers or systems integrators. This exposes us to risks, including among others: (i) technological risks, especially when the contracts involve new technology, (ii) risk of defaults by third-parties on whom we are relying for products or services as part of our offering or who are the prime contractors, (iii) financial risks, including the estimates inherent in projecting costs associated with large, long-term contracts, the impact of currency fluctuations, inflation, and the related impact on operating results, (iv) cyber security risk, especially in managed services contracts with public safety and commercial customers that process data, and (v) political risk, especially related to the contracts with government customers. In addition, multi-year awards from governmental customers may often only receive partial funding initially and may typically be cancelable on short notice with limited penalties. Recovery of front loaded capital expenditures in long-term managed services contracts is dependent on the continued viability of such customers. The termination of funding for a government program or insolvency of commercial customer could result in a loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program, which could have an adverse impact on our profitability.. Our success depends in part on our timely introduction of new products and technologies and our results can be impacted by the effectiveness of our significant investments in new products and technologies.. The markets for certain products of ours are characterized by changing technologies and evolving industry standards. In some cases it is unclear what specific technology will be adopted in the market or what delivery model will prevail, including whether public safety LTE will be delivered via private networks, public carriers or some combination thereof. In addition, new technologies such as voice over LTE or push-to-talk clients over LTE could reduce sales of our traditional products. The shift to smart public safety and the prevalence of data in our customer's use cases results in our competing in a more fragmented marketplace. In addition, new technologies and new competitors continue to enter our markets at a faster pace than we have experienced in the past, resulting in increased competition from non-traditional suppliers, including public carriers, telecom equipment providers, consumer device manufacturers and software companies. New products are expensive to develop and bring to market and additional complexities are added when this process is outsourced as we have done in certain cases or as we increase our reliance on third-party content and technology. Our success depends, in substantial part, on the timely and successful introduction of new products, upgrades and enhancements of current products to comply with emerging industry standards, laws and regulations, such as China's proprietary technology, PDT, and to address competing technological and product developments carried out by our competitors. Developing new technologies to compete in a specific market may not be financially viable, resulting in our inability to compete in that market. The R&D of new, technologically-advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and investment, as well as the accurate anticipation of technology and market trends. Many of our products and systems are complex and we may experience delays in completing development and introducing new products or technologies in the future. We may focus our resources on technologies that do not become widely accepted or are not commercially viable or involve compliance obligations with additional areas of regulatory requirements.. Our results are subject to risks related to our significant investment in developing and introducing new products. These risks include among others: (i) difficulties and delays in the development, production, testing and marketing of products, particularly when such activities are done through third-parties, (ii) customer acceptance of products, (iii) the development of, approval of, and compliance with industry standards and regulatory requirements, (iv) the significant amount of resources we must devote to the development of new technologies, and (v) the ability to differentiate our products and compete with other companies in the same markets.. If the quality of our products does not meet our customers' expectations or regulatory or industry standards, then our sales and operating earnings, and ultimately our reputation, could be negatively impacted.. Some of the products we sell may have quality issues resulting from the design or manufacture of the product, or from the software used in the product. Sometimes, these issues may be caused by components we purchase from other manufacturers or suppliers. Often these issues are identified prior to the shipment of the products and may cause delays in shipping products to customers, or even the cancellation of orders by customers. Sometimes, we discover quality issues in the products after they have been shipped to our customers, requiring us to resolve such issues in a timely manner that is the least disruptive to our customers, particularly in light of the mission-critical nature of our communications products. Such pre-shipment and post- shipment quality issues can have legal, financial and reputational ramifications, including: (i) delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue or future orders, (ii) customer-imposed penalties for failure to meet contractual requirements, (iii) increased costs associated with repairing or replacing products, and (iv) a negative impact on our goodwill and brand name reputation.. In some cases, if the quality issue affects the product's performance, safety or regulatory compliance, then such a \"defective\" product may need to be \"stop-shipped\" or recalled. Depending on the nature of the quality issue and the number of products in the field, it could cause us to incur substantial recall or corrective field action costs, in addition to the costs associated with the potential loss of future orders and the damage to our goodwill or brand reputation. In addition, we may be required, under certain customer contracts, to pay damages for failed performance that might exceed the revenue that we receive from the contracts. Recalls and field actions involving regulatory non-compliance could also result in fines and additional costs. Recalls and field actions could result in third-party litigation by persons or companies alleging harm or economic damage as a result of the use of the products.. 15. We expect to continue to make strategic acquisitions of other companies or businesses and these acquisitions introduce significant risks and uncertainties, including risks related to integrating the acquired businesses and achieving benefits from the acquisitions.. In order to position ourselves to take advantage of growth opportunities or to meet other strategic needs such as product or technology gaps, we have made, and expect to continue to make, strategic acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include: (i) the difficulty or inability in integrating newly-acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and effective manner, (ii) risks associated with integrating financial reporting and internal control systems, (iii) the challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits from acquisitions, (iv) the risk that our contractual relationships or the markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the technologies acquired do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets, (v) the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses, (vi) the risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our operations, (vii) the risks of entering new markets in which we have limited experience, (viii) difficulties in integrating information technology systems and other business processes to accommodate the acquired businesses, (ix) challenges in integrating acquired businesses to create the operating platform for public safety and (x) future impairments of goodwill of an acquired business. In particular, failure to achieve targeted cost and revenue synergies could negatively impact our business performance.. Certain acquisition candidates in the industries in which we participate may carry higher relative valuations (based on revenues, earnings, cash flow, or other relevant multiples) than we do. This is particularly evident in software and certain services businesses. Acquiring a business that has a higher relative valuation than Motorola Solutions may be dilutive to our earnings. In addition, we may not pursue opportunities that are highly dilutive to near-term earnings.. Key employees of acquired businesses may receive substantial value in connection with a transaction in the form of cash payments for their ownership interest, particularly in the case of founders and other shareholder employees, or as a result of change-in-control agreements, acceleration of stock options and the lifting of restrictions on other equity-based compensation rights. To retain such employees and integrate the acquired business, we may offer additional retention incentives, but it may still be difficult to retain certain key employees.. We have completed a number of large divestitures over the last several years and have ongoing obligations and potential liabilities associated with those transactions and the businesses we divested. In addition, these divestitures have resulted in less diversity of our business and our customer base, which could negatively impact our financial results in the event of a downturn in our mission-critical communications business.. Over the last several years we have spun-off or sold a number of large businesses, including Motorola Mobility, our Networks business and our Enterprise business. In connection with our divestitures we typically remain liable for certain pre- closing liabilities associated with the divested business, such as pension liabilities, taxes, employment, environmental liabilities and litigation. In addition, although we often assign contracts associated with the divested business to a buyer in a divestiture, often that assignment will be subject to the consent of the contractual counterparty, which may not be obtained or may be conditioned, resulting in the company remaining liable under the contract. In connection with our divestitures we make representations and warranties and agree to covenants relating to the business divested. We remain liable for a period of time for breaches of representations, warranties and covenants and we also indemnify buyers in the event of such breaches and for other specific risks. Even though we establish reserves for any expected ongoing liability associated with divested businesses, those reserves may not be sufficient if unexpected liabilities arise and this could negatively impact our financial condition and future results of operations.. Because we are now singularly focused on mission-critical communications for public safety and commercial customers we have less diversity in our business and our customer base. A downturn in this business could have a greater negative impact on our financial results than when we were a more diversified communications provider.. We face many risks relating to intellectual property rights.. Our business will be harmed if: (i) we, our customers and/or our suppliers are found to have infringed intellectual property rights of third-parties, (ii) the intellectual property indemnities in our supplier agreements are inadequate to cover damages and losses due to infringement of third-party intellectual property rights by supplier products, (iii) we are required to provide broad intellectual property indemnities to our customers, (iv) our intellectual property protection is inadequate to protect against threats of misappropriation from internal or external sources or otherwise inadequate to protect our proprietary rights, or (v) our competitors negotiate significantly more favorable terms for licensed intellectual property. We may be harmed if we are forced to make publicly available, under the relevant open-source licenses, certain internally developed software-related intellectual property as a result of either our use of open-source software code or the use of third-party software that contains open-source code.. Since our products are comprised of complex technology, much of which we acquire from suppliers through the purchase of components or licensing of software, we are often involved in or impacted by assertions, including both requests for licenses and litigation, regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Third-parties have asserted, and in the future may assert, intellectual property infringement claims against us and against our customers and suppliers. Many of these assertions are brought by non-practicing entities whose principle business model is to secure patent licensing-based revenue from product manufacturing companies. The patent holders often make broad and sweeping claims regarding the applicability of their patents to our products, seeking a percentage of sales as licenses fees, seeking injunctions to pressure us into taking a license, or a combination thereof. Defending claims may be expensive and divert the time and efforts of our management and employees. Increasingly, third-parties have sought broad injunctive relief which could limit our ability to sell our products in the U.S. or. 16. elsewhere with intellectual property subject to the claims. If we do not succeed in any such litigation, we could be required to expend significant resources to pay damages, develop non-infringing products or to obtain licenses to the intellectual property that is the subject of such litigation, each of which could have a negative impact on our financial results. However, we cannot be certain that any such licenses, if available at all, will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. In some cases, we might be forced to stop delivering certain products if we or our customer or supplier are subject to a final injunction.. We attempt to negotiate favorable intellectual property indemnities with our suppliers for infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. However, there is no assurance that we will be successful in our negotiations or that a supplier's indemnity will cover all damages and losses suffered by us and our customers due to the infringing products or that a supplier will choose to accept a license or modify or replace its products with non-infringing products which would otherwise mitigate such damages and losses. Further, we may not be able to participate in intellectual property litigation involving a supplier and may not be able to influence any ultimate resolution or outcome that may negatively impact our sales if a court enters an injunction that enjoins the supplier's products or if the International Trade Commission issues an exclusionary order that blocks our products from importation into the U.S. Intellectual property disputes involving our suppliers have resulted in our involvement in International Trade Commission proceedings from time to time. These proceedings are costly and entail the risk that we will be subjected to a ban on the importation of our products into the U.S. solely as a result of our use of a supplier's components.. In addition, our customers increasingly demand that we indemnify them broadly from all damages and losses resulting from intellectual property litigation against them. These demands stem from the increasing trend of the non-practicing entities that engage in patent enforcement and litigation targeting the end users of our products. End users are targeted so the non- practicing entities can seek royalties and litigation judgments in proportion to the value of the use of our products, rather than in proportion to the cost of our products. Such demands can amount to many times the selling price of our products.. Our patent and other intellectual property rights are important competitive tools and may generate income under license agreements. We regard our intellectual property as proprietary and attempt to protect it with patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements and other methods. We also generally restrict access to and distribution of our proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third-party to obtain and use our proprietary information or develop similar technology independently. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights by third- parties and the cost of any litigation necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights could have a negative impact on our financial results.. As we expand our business, including through acquisitions, and compete with new competitors in new markets, the breadth and strength of our intellectual property portfolio in those new markets may not be as developed as in our longer- standing businesses. This may expose us to a heightened risk of litigation and other challenges from competitors in these new markets. Further, competitors may be able to negotiate significantly more favorable terms for licensed intellectual property than we are able to, which puts them at a competitive advantage.. We may not have the ability to settle the principal amount of the $1 billion of 2% Senior Convertible Notes (the \"Senior Convertible Notes\") in cash in the event of conversion or to repurchase the Senior Convertible Notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, which could have a material effect on our reported financial results.. Our Senior Convertible Notes are convertible any time. In the event of conversion, the Company currently intends to settle the principal amount of the Senior Convertible Notes in cash.. Under certain circumstances, convertible debt instruments (such as the Senior Convertible Notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash are evaluated for their impact on earnings per share utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that the shares issuable upon conversion of the Senior Convertible Notes are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of the Senior Convertible Notes exceeds their principal amount. Under the treasury stock method the number of shares outstanding for purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share includes the number of shares that would be required to settle the excess of the conversion value of the Senior Convertible Notes, if any, over the principal amounts of the Senior Convertible Notes (which would be settled in cash). The conversion value of the Senior Convertible Notes will exceed the principal amount of the notes to the extent the trading price of a share of our stock exceeds the effective conversion price as of the conversion date.. If we do not have adequate cash available, either from cash on hand, funds generated from operations or existing financing arrangements, or we cannot obtain additional financing arrangements, we may not be able to settle the principal amount of the Senior Convertible Notes in cash and, in the case of settlement of conversion elections, will be required to settle the principal amount of the Senior Convertible Notes in stock. If we settle any portion of the principal amount of the Senior Convertible Notes in stock, it will result in immediate, and possibly material, dilution to the interests of existing security holders.. Following any conclusion that we no longer have the ability to settle the Senior Convertible Notes in cash, we will be required on a going forward basis to change our accounting policy for earnings per share from the treasury stock method to the if-converted method. Earnings per share will most likely be significantly lower under the if-converted method as compared to the treasury stock method.. Our ability to repurchase the Senior Convertible Notes in cash upon the occurrence of a fundamental change or make any other required payments may be limited by law or the terms of other agreements relating to our indebtedness outstanding at the time. Our failure to repurchase the Senior Convertible Notes when required would result in an event of default with respect to the Senior Convertible Notes and may constitute an event of default or prepayment under, or result in the acceleration of the maturity of, our then-existing indebtedness.. 17. Tax matters could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign tax jurisdictions. Our provision for income taxes and cash tax liability may be negatively impacted by: (i) changes in the mix of earnings taxable in jurisdictions with different statutory tax rates, (ii) changes in tax laws and accounting principles, (iii) changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, (iv) failure to meet commitments under tax incentive agreements, (v) discovery of new information during the course of tax return preparation, (vi) increases in nondeductible expenses, or (vii) difficulties in repatriating cash held abroad in a tax- efficient manner.. As of December 22, 2017 the U.S. enacted wide-sweeping tax law changes that will impact our provision for income taxes.   Certain provisions included in the legislation, primarily related to the taxation of non-U.S. income, do not contain sufficient details for us to determine the specific financial impact on the Company in future years. The future guidance or interpretations of the new law could result in an increase to our U.S. tax liability and a resulting negative impact on our future operating results.. Tax audits may also negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to continued examination of our income tax returns, and tax authorities may disagree with our tax positions and assess additional tax. We regularly evaluate the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuing examinations will not have a negative impact on our future financial condition and operating results.. Certain tax policy efforts, including the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development's (\"OECD\") Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (\"BEPS\") Project, the European Commission's state aid investigations, and other initiatives could have an adverse effect on the taxation of international businesses. Furthermore, many of the countries where we are subject to taxes, including the United States, are independently evaluating their tax policy and we may see significant changes in legislation and regulations concerning taxation. Certain countries have already enacted legislation which could affect international businesses, and other countries have become more aggressive in their approach to audits and enforcement of their applicable tax laws. Such changes, to the extent they are brought into tax legislation, regulations, policies, or practices, could increase our effective tax rates in many of the countries where we have operations and have an adverse effect on our overall tax rate, along with increasing the complexity, burden and cost of tax compliance, all of which could impact our operating results, cash flows and financial condition.. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, retain and prepare succession plans for senior management and key employees.. The performance of our CEO, senior management and other key employees is critical to our success. If we are unable to retain talented, highly qualified senior management and other key employees or attract them when needed, it could negatively impact our business. We rely on the experience of our senior management, most of whom have been with the Company for many years and as a result have specific knowledge relating to us and our industry that is difficult to replace and competition for management with experience in the communications industry is intense. A loss of the CEO, a member of senior management or key employee particularly to a competitor could also place us at a competitive disadvantage. Further, if we fail to adequately plan for the succession of our CEO, senior management and other key employees, our business could be negatively impacted.. It may be difficult for us to recruit and retain the types of engineers and other highly-skilled employees that are necessary to remain competitive and layoffs of such skilled employees as a result of divestitures, restructuring activities or cost reductions may benefit our competitors.. Competition for key technical personnel in high-technology industries is intense. As we expand our solutions and services business, we now have increased demand for technical personnel in areas like software development, which is an area of particularly high demand for skilled employees. We believe that our future success depends in large part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate, retain and leverage the skills of qualified engineers and other highly-skilled personnel needed to develop successful new products or services. We may not be as successful as our competitors at recruiting, assimilating, retaining and utilizing these highly-skilled personnel, which could have a negative impact on our business. In addition, as we have divested businesses and restructured our operations we have, in some cases, had to layoff engineers and other highly skilled employees. If these employees were to go to work for our competitors it could have a negative impact on our business.. Returns on pension and retirement plan assets and interest rate changes could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods.. Although we engaged in pension de-risking activities in 2014, we continue to have large underfunded pension obligations, in part resulting from the fact that we retained almost all of the U.S. pension liabilities and a major portion of our non-U.S. pension liabilities following our divestitures, including the distribution of Motorola Mobility, the sale of our Networks business and the sale of our Enterprise business. The funding position of our pension plans is affected by the performance of the financial markets, particularly the equity and debt markets, and the interest rates used to calculate our pension obligations for funding and expense purposes. Minimum annual pension contributions are determined by government regulations and calculated based upon our pension funding status, interest rates, and other factors. If the financial markets perform poorly, we have been and could be required to make additional large contributions. The equity and debt markets can be volatile, and therefore our estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. Similarly, changes in interest rates can affect our contribution requirements. In volatile capital market environments, the uncertainty of material changes in future minimum required contributions increases.. 18. Changes in our operations or sales outside the U.S. markets could result in lost benefits in impacted countries and increase our cost of doing business.. We have entered into various agreements with non-U.S. governments, agencies or similar organizations under which we receive certain benefits relating to its operations and/or sales in the jurisdiction. If our circumstances change, and operations or sales are not at levels originally anticipated, we may be at risk of having to reimburse benefits already granted, and losing some or all of these benefits and increasing our cost of doing business.. We transferred a significant portfolio of intellectual property rights, including patents, to Motorola Mobility and Zebra and we are unable to leverage these intellectual property rights as we did prior to the distribution of Motorola Mobility or the sale of our Enterprise business.. We contributed approximately 17,200 granted patents and approximately 8,000 pending patent applications worldwide to Motorola Mobility in connection with the distribution. We also transferred approximately 2,700 granted patents and approximately 800 pending patent applications to Zebra in connection with the sale of the Enterprise business. Although we have a worldwide, perpetual, royalty-free license to these patents and other intellectual property rights, we no longer own them. As a result we are unable to leverage these intellectual property rights for purposes of generating licensing revenue or entering into favorable licensing arrangements with third-parties. As a result we may incur increased license fees or litigation costs. Although we cannot predict the extent of such unanticipated costs, it is possible such costs could negatively impact our financial results.. We are subject to a wide range of product regulatory and safety, consumer, worker safety and environmental laws that continue to expand and could impact our ability to grow our business, could subject us to unexpected costs and liabilities and could impact our financial performance.. Our operations and the products we manufacture and/or sell are subject to a wide range of product regulatory and safety, consumer, worker safety and environmental laws. Compliance with such existing or future laws could subject us to future costs or liabilities, impact our production capabilities, constrict our ability to sell, expand or acquire facilities, restrict what products and services we can offer, and generally impact our financial performance. Some of these laws are environmental and relate to the use, disposal, clean up of, and exposure to certain substances. For example, in the U.S., laws often require parties to fund remedial studies or actions regardless of fault and often times in response to action or omissions that were legal at the time they occurred. We continue to incur disposal costs and have ongoing remediation obligations. Changes to environmental laws or our discovery of additional obligations under these laws could have a negative impact on our financial performance.. Laws focused on: (i) the energy efficiency of electronic products and accessories, (ii) recycling of both electronic products and packaging, (iii) reducing or eliminating certain hazardous substances in electronic products, and (iv) the transportation of batteries continue to expand significantly. Laws pertaining to accessibility features of electronic products, standardization of connectors and power supplies, the transportation of lithium-ion batteries and other aspects of our products are also proliferating. There are also demanding and rapidly changing laws around the globe related to issues such as product safety, radio interference, radio frequency radiation exposure, medical related functionality, and consumer and social mandates pertaining to use of wireless or electronic equipment. These laws, and changes to these laws, could have a substantial impact on whether we can offer certain products, solutions and services, on product costs, and on what capabilities and characteristics our products or services can or must include.. These laws could impact our products and negatively affect our ability to manufacture and sell products competitively. We expect these trends to continue. In addition, we anticipate that we will see increased demand to meet voluntary criteria related to reduction or elimination of certain constituents from products, increasing energy efficiency, and providing additional accessibility.. We may be unable to obtain components and parts that are verified to be Democratic Republic of Congo (\"DRC\") Conflict Free, which could result in reputational damage if we disclose that our products include minerals that have been identified as \"not found to be DRC conflict free\" or if we disclose that we are unable to determine whether such minerals are included in our products.. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act included disclosure requirements regarding the use of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold (which are defined as \"conflict minerals\") in our products and if the origin of these materials were from the DRC or an adjoining country. If the minerals originated from the DRC or an adjoining country then a company must disclose the measures it has taken to exercise due diligence and chain of custody to prevent the sourcing of such minerals that have been found to be financing conflict in the DRC. There is a limited pool of suppliers who can provide verifiable DRC Conflict Free components and parts, particularly since our supply chain is complex. As a result, we may be required to publicly disclose that we are not currently able to determine if the products we manufactured in 2017 are DRC Conflict Free. For future reporting years, if the industry systems that we are relying on are not mature enough for us to make a definitive Conflict Free determination, we may have to declare our products as \"not found to be DRC conflict free,\" or such other definitional standard as determined by the SEC and/or the judicial system and we may face reputational challenges with our customers, other stockholders and the activist community as a result. In addition, the European Union has passed conflict minerals legislation which may have an impact on our reporting obligations and compliance programs in Europe.. Any system or network disruption could have negative impact on our operations, sales and operating results.. We rely extensively on our information systems to manage our business operations. Our systems are subject to damage or interruption from various sources, including power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, cyber security breaches, vandalism, severe weather conditions, catastrophic events, terrorism, and human error, and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. If our systems are damaged, fail to function properly, or otherwise become. 19. compromised or unavailable, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them, and we may experience loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to perform critical functions, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. We also currently rely on a number of older legacy information systems that are harder to maintain and that we now have fewer resources to maintain since implementing our new ERP system. A system failure could negatively impact our operations and financial results. In addition, as we have outsourced more of our business operations we have increased our dependence on the IT systems of our outsourced business partners which are not under our direct management or control. Any disruption to either those outsourced systems or the communication links between Motorola Solutions and the outsourced supplier, may negatively impact our ability to manufacture, distribute, or repair products. We may incur additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions."
