[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. We believe substantial doubt exists as to our ability to continue as a going concern unless we are able to raise additional capital. However, that capital may not be available and, without additional capital, we will be required to pursue alternative courses such as selling assets or seeking potential acquisition partners.. Due to the conditions and events discussed throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we believe substantial doubt exists as to our ability to continue as a going concern. The Company is currently engaged in preliminary negotiations with various third parties regarding the raising of additional capital. If we cannot raise additional capital and/or consummate a strategic merger or sale, we may not be able to sustain further deterioration in our financial condition and other regulatory actions may be taken. As of the date of the Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm included in the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Company has not entered into a definitive agreement regarding the raising of additional capital or a potential sale of the Company and no assurances can be made that the Company will ultimately enter into such an agreement.. Severe, adverse, and precipitous economic and market conditions have adversely affected us and our industry.. The recent negative events in the housing market, including significant and continuing home price reductions coupled with the upward trends in delinquencies and foreclosures, have resulted and will likely continue to result in poor performance of mortgage and construction loans and with further deterioration, in significant asset writedowns by many financial institutions. Reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment further contribute to deteriorating credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional writedowns. Financial market and economic instability have caused financial institutions to severely restrict their lending to customers and each other. This market turmoil and credit tightening has exacerbated commercial and consumer deficiencies, the lack of consumer confidence, market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. Financial institutions also have experienced decreased access to deposits and borrowings. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets has and may continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events:. <U+0095>    We potentially face increased regulation of our industry including heightened legal standards and regulatory requirements or expectations imposed in connection with recent and anticipated legislation Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities.. <U+0095>    The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. The level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect the accuracy of our estimates which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process.. 27. Table of Contents. <U+0095>    We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits, also our current risk profile will cause us to pay higher premiums.. <U+0095>    The number of our borrowers that may be unable to make timely repayments of their loans, or the decrease in value of real estate collateral securing the payment of such loans could continue to escalate and result in significant credit losses, increased delinquencies, foreclosures and customer bankruptcies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. <U+0095>    Further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations, may result in an inability to borrow on favorable terms or on any terms from other financial institutions.. <U+0095>    Increased competition among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions, the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies and the favorable governmental treatment afforded to the largest of the financial institutions may adversely affect the our ability to market our products and services and continue to obtain market share.. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition.. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. The FHLB has reduced our line of credit from $181.3 million to $168.1 million, our current outstanding balance. The Federal Reserve Board has also notified the Bank that it will permit the Bank to draw on its line of credit with the Federal Reserve Bank only in limited circumstances and for a short duration. Factors that could further detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us. Due to the fact that we are significantly undercapitalized, we are not allowed to purchase brokered deposits without first obtaining a regulatory waiver, which has not been obtained as of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This could significantly affect our ability to fund normal operations. Our ability to acquire deposits or borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole as the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations in the domestic and worldwide credit markets deteriorates. At December 31, 2008, management considered the Bank's liquidity level to be low, but sufficient for the purposes of meeting the Bank's cash flow requirements.. We are required to raise additional capital, but that capital may not be available and without additional capital, other courses such as selling assets and looking for merger partners will need to be pursued.. Under the terms of the Order and Consent Agreement, we are required to develop and adopt a plan that requires the Bank to obtain a Tier 1 leverage ratio above 10% as well as a plan for the Bank to meet the minimum risk based capital requirements, each of which plans must be acceptable to both the FDIC and the Commissioner. Our ability to raise additional capital is contingent on the current capital markets and on our financial performance. Available capital markets are not currently favorable and we do not anticipate any material improvement in these markets in the near term. Accordingly, we cannot be certain of our ability to raise additional capital on any terms. If we cannot raise additional capital and/or continue to down-size operations and our size or engage a strategic merger or sale, we may not be able to sustain further deterioration in our financial condition and other regulatory actions may be taken, including placing the Bank into receivership with the FDIC. If the Bank is placed into receivership, it is highly likely that the Company would be required to cease operations and liquidate or seek bankruptcy protection. If the Company were to liquidate or seek bankruptcy protection, we do not believe that there would be assets available to holders of the capital stock of the Company.. We are required to comply with the terms of a cease and desist order recently issued by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and North Carolina Commissioner of Banks and a written agreement we have entered into with the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. Lack of compliance could result in monetary penalties and/or additional regulatory actions.. We have entered into a stipulation and consent to the issuance of a March 12, 2009 order to cease and desist (the \"Consent Agreement\") with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the \"FDIC\") and the North Carolina Commissioner of Banks (the \"Commissioner\"). The Order is a formal corrective action pursuant to which the Bank has agreed to address specific areas through the adoption and implementation of procedures, plans and policies designed to enhance the safety and soundness of our bank. These affirmative actions include management assessment, increased Board participation, implementation of plans to address capital, disposition of assets, allowance for loan losses, reduction in the level of classified and delinquent loans, loan portfolio diversification, profitability, strategic planning, liquidity and funds management and a reduction in the level of brokered deposits. In. 28. Table of Contents. addition, the Bank is required to maintain specified capital levels, notify the FDIC and the Commissioner of director and management changes and obtain prior approval of dividend payments. The Order specifies certain timeframes for meeting these requirements, and our bank must furnish periodic progress reports to the FDIC and Commissioner of Banks regarding its compliance. The Order will remain in effect until modified or terminated by the FDIC and the Commissioner. In addition, we have entered into a written agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, as further described in \"Regulatory Actions\" in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If we fail to comply with the Order, the Consent Agreement, or the Federal Reserve Agreement, the FDIC, Commissioner, and/or Federal Reserve may pursue the assessment of civil money penalties against us and our officers and directors and may seek to enforce the terms of the Order or Federal Reserve Agreement through court proceedings.. In the event that we attempt to expand and open additional branches, we may encounter risks unique to a particular area which could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations.. We constantly monitor potential opportunities for expansion within our geographic area in an attempt to better serve existing customers, attract new customers, and deliver an equitable rate of return for our stockholders. Although management attempts to forecast the results of expansions, it is possible that risk factors existed that were either not considered or inaccurately forecasted by management. In the event that we expand our existing market area and management is unable to anticipate all risks associated with our expansion, our business or results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our construction and land development, commercial, and equity line lending may expose us to a greater risk of loss and hurt our earnings and profitability.. Our business strategy centers, in part, on offering construction and land development, commercial, and equity line loans secured by real estate in order to expand our net interest margin. These types of loans generally have higher risk-adjusted returns and shorter maturities than traditional one-to-four family residential mortgage loans. At December 31, 2008, construction and land development, commercial, and equity line loans secured by real estate totaled $310.8 million, which represented 35.6% of total loans. If we continue to increase the level of these loans, we will increase our credit risk profile relative to other financial institutions that have higher concentrations of one-to-four family loans.. Loans secured by commercial or land development real estate properties are generally for larger amounts and involve a greater degree of risk than one-to-four family residential mortgage loans. Payments on loans secured by these properties generally are dependent on the income produced by the underlying properties which, in turn, depends on the successful operation and management of the properties. Accordingly, repayment of these loans is subject to adverse conditions in the real estate market or the local economy. While we seek to minimize these risks in a variety of ways, including restricting such loans to our primary market area and attempting to employ conservative underwriting criteria, there can be no assurance that these measures will protect against credit-related losses.. Construction financing typically involves a higher degree of credit risk than long-term financing on improved, owner-occupied real estate. Risk of loss on a construction loan is largely dependent upon the accuracy of the initial estimate of the property's value at completion of construction and the bid price and estimated cost (including interest) of construction. If the estimate of construction costs proves to be inaccurate, we may be required to advance funds beyond the amount originally committed to permit completion of the project. If the estimate of the value proves to be inaccurate, we may be confronted, at or prior to the maturity of the loan, with a project whose value is insufficient to assure full repayment. When lending to builders, the cost of construction breakdown is provided by the builder, as well as supported by the appraisal. Recently, there has been a significant slowdown in the housing market in our market area. This slowdown reflects declining prices and excess inventories of homes to be sold, which has contributed to financial strain on home builders and suppliers. Continued deterioration in the real estate market generally and in the residential building segment in particular within our market area could result in increased loan charge offs and provisions for loan losses in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, net income and capital. Although our underwriting criteria is designed to evaluate and minimize the risks of each construction loan, there can be no guarantee that these practices will safeguard against material delinquencies and losses to our operations.. Equity line loans typically involve a greater degree of risk than one-to-four family residential mortgage loans. Equity line lending allows a customer to access an amount up to their line of credit for the term specified in their agreement. At the expiration of the term of an equity line, a customer may have the entire principal balance outstanding as opposed to a one-to-four family residential mortgage loan where the principal is disbursed entirely at closing and amortizes throughout the term of the loan. We cannot predict when and to what extent our customers will access their equity line. While we seek to minimize this risk in a variety of ways, including attempting to employ conservative underwriting criteria, there can be no assurance that these measures will protect against credit-related losses.. 29. Table of Contents. Our lending on vacant land may expose us to a greater risk of loss and may have an adverse effect on results of operations.. A portion of our residential and commercial lending is secured by vacant or unimproved land. Loans secured by vacant or unimproved land are generally more risky than loans secured by improved property for one-to-four family residential mortgage loans. Since vacant or unimproved land is generally held by the borrower for investment purposes or future use, payments on loans secured by vacant or unimproved land will typically rank lower in priority to the borrower than a loan the borrower may have on their primary residence or business. These loans are susceptible to adverse conditions in the real estate market and local economy. While we seek to minimize this risk in a variety of ways, including attempting to employ conservative underwriting criteria, there can be no assurance that these measures will protect against credit-related losses. At December 31, 2008, loans secured by vacant or unimproved property totaled $ 235.4 million, or 27.0% of our loan portfolio.. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio.. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loans in our portfolio that may not be repaid in their entirety. We believe that our allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date. However, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially adversely affect our operating results.. In evaluating the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses, we consider numerous quantitative factors, including our historical charge-off experience, growth of our loan portfolio, changes in the composition of our loan portfolio, and the volume of delinquent and criticized loans. In addition, we use information about specific borrower situations, including their financial position and estimated collateral values, to estimate the risk and amount of loss for those borrowers. Finally, we also consider many qualitative factors, including general and economic business conditions, duration of the current business cycle, current general market collateral valuations, trends apparent in any of the factors we take into account and other matters, which are by nature more subjective and fluid. Our estimates of the risk of loss and amount of loss on any loan are complicated by the significant uncertainties surrounding our borrowers' abilities to successfully execute their business models through changing economic environments, competitive challenges, and other factors. Because of the degree of uncertainty and susceptibility of these factors to change, our actual losses may vary from our current estimates.. At December 31, 2008 our allowance for loan losses as a percentage of loans was 4.16% as compared to 1.07% at December 31, 2007. Regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to expense, or to decrease our allowance for loan losses by recognizing loan charge-offs, net of recoveries. Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, as required by these regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. banking system. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. The legislation that established U.S. Treasury's Troubled Assets Relief Program (\"TARP\"), was signed into law on October 3, 2008. As part of TARP, the U.S. Treasury established the TARP Capital Purchase Program (\"CPP\") to provide up to $700 billion of funding to eligible financial institutions through the purchase of capital stock and other financial instruments for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. Then, on February 17, 2009, further legislation was signed into law as a sweeping economic recovery package intended to stimulate the economy and provide for broad infrastructure, energy, health, and education needs. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact any of this legislation will have on the national economy or financial markets. The failure of these significant legislative measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock.. There have been numerous actions undertaken in connection with or following the recent legislation by the Federal Reserve, Congress, U.S. Treasury, the SEC and the federal bank regulatory agencies in efforts to address the current liquidity and credit crisis in the financial industry that followed the sub-prime mortgage market meltdown which began in late 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification;. 30. Table of Contents. the temporary increase in FDIC deposit insurance from $100,000 to $250,000, the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to help stabilize the U.S. banking system. The recent legislation and the other regulatory initiatives described above may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. U.S. and international financial markets and economic conditions, particularly in our market area, could adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition.. Recent turmoil and downward economic trends have been particularly acute in the financial sector. We are considered \"significantly undercapitalized\" under the FDIC's prompt corrective action regulations. While our management has taken aggressive measures to shore up its liquidity positions, the cost and availability of funds may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and the demand for our products and services may decline as our borrowers and customers experience the impact of an economic slowdown and recession. In view of the concentration of our operations and the collateral securing our loan portfolio in the State of North Carolina, we may be particularly susceptible to the adverse economic conditions in North Carolina, where our business is concentrated. In addition, the severity and duration of these adverse conditions is unknown and may exacerbate our exposure to credit risk and adversely affect the ability of borrowers to perform under the terms of their lending arrangements with us. In addition, the severity and duration of these adverse conditions is unknown and may exacerbate our exposure to credit risk and adversely affect the ability of borrowers to perform under the terms of their lending arrangements with us. Accordingly, continued turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economy may adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and profitability.. Our business is subject to the success of the local economy in which we operate, which has been negatively impacted by the recent national economic slowdown.. Because the majority of our borrowers and depositors are individuals and businesses located and doing business in the communities of Eastern North and South Carolina, our success depends, to a significant extent, upon economic conditions throughout this area. This market is generally segmented into coastal communities and inland areas. The economics of the coastal communities (concentrated in Dare, Carteret, Currituck, Onslow, Pender, New Hanover, and Brunswick Counties of North Carolina and Horry County, South Carolina) are seasonal and largely dependent on the summer tourism industry. The economy of Wilmington, the largest city in the market area, a historic seaport with a population of approximately 100,000, is also reliant upon summer tourism, but is diversified into the chemicals, shipping, pharmaceutical, aircraft engines, and fiber optics industries. Wilmington also serves as a regional retail center, a regional medical center, and home of the University of North Carolina at Wilmington. The inland communities we serve (concentrated in Bladen, Brunswick, Columbus, Duplin, Hyde, Beaufort, and Pender Counties of North Carolina and Chesterfield County, South Carolina) are largely service areas for agricultural activities. The national economic slowdown has impacted our local economy as well, evidenced by rising unemployment, declining real estate values, a decrease in the annual compound growth rate, and a rise in regional foreclosures, among other things. In addition, we expect the economic downturn to negatively affect beach tourism and vacation rental rates and prices. The economic downturn has resulted in an increase in payment delinquencies, foreclosures, provision for loan losses, and loss on other real estate owned at the Bank.. Adverse economic conditions in our market area could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans, and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, high interest rates, short money supply, scarce natural resources, international disorders, terrorism, and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our profitability. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures, or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in the Carolinas could adversely affect the value of our assets, revenues, results of operations, and financial condition. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur.. If the value of real estate in Eastern North and South Carolina were to decline materially, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. With most of our loans concentrated in the Eastern North and South Carolina region, a decline in local economic conditions could adversely affect the value of the real estate collateral securing our loans. A decline in property. 31. Table of Contents. values would diminish our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral, making it more likely that we would suffer losses on defaulted loans. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to our allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would hurt our profits. Also, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are more geographically diverse. Real estate values are affected by various factors in addition to local economic conditions, including, among other things, changes in general or regional economic conditions, governmental rules or policies, and natural disasters.. We actively lend on the security of rental properties located in the Outer Banks region of North Carolina, which may increase the likelihood of delinquencies and losses to our operations.. We currently lend on the security of properties located in the Outer Banks region of North Carolina. This region's economic base is seasonal and driven by beach tourism, which is expected to decline as a result of the current economic environment, and a large number of loans we make in this area are secured by vacation rental properties. These loans are inherently more risky than loans secured by the borrower's permanent residence, since the borrower is typically dependent upon rental income to meet debt service requirements, and repayment is therefore subject to a greater extent to adverse economic, weather, and other conditions affecting vacation rentals. Despite management's efforts to minimize these risks by employing what it believes to be conservative underwriting practices, there is no guarantee that lending on the security of such rental properties will prevent material delinquencies and losses to our operations.. Hurricanes or other adverse weather events could negatively affect our local economy or cause disruptions to our branch office operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations.. Our operations are concentrated in Eastern North and South Carolina, a geographic region with coastal areas that are susceptible to hurricanes and tropical storms. Such weather events can disrupt our operations, result in damage to our branch office locations and real estate collateral securing our loans, and negatively affect the local economy in which we operate. We cannot predict whether or to what extent damage caused by hurricanes or tropical storms will affect our operations or the economy in our market area, but such weather events could result in a decline in loan originations and an increase in the risk of delinquencies, foreclosures, or loan losses. These and other negative effects of hurricanes or tropical storms may adversely affect our business or results of operations.. Continued deterioration of the real estate market may cause us to reserve for additional loan losses, leading to the need for us to raise additional capital, which capital may not be available when it is needed.. We are required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We currently need to raise additional capital. If we raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other securities, it would dilute the ownership interests of current investors and may dilute the per share book value of our common stock. New investors may also have rights, preferences, and privileges senior to our current shareholders, which may adversely impact our current shareholders.. Our ability to raise additional capital depends on conditions in the capital markets, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital, our ability to continue our operations could be materially impaired.. There is a possibility that our common stock may be delisted and, as a result, become more volatile and less liquid.. Bankshares' common stock is currently listed on the Nasdaq Global Market. Due to the current trading price range of our common stock, it is probable that without a substantial and sustained increase in the trading price range of our common stock, the shares will be delisted by Nasdaq. In addition, on April 17, 2009, the Company received a letter from Nasdaq indicating that the Company is not in compliance with the filing requirements for continued listing under Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 5250(c)(1) due to the delayed filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Pursuant to the notification letter, the Company is required to submit a plan to regain compliance with Nasdaq's filing requirements for continued listing within 60 calendars days of the date of the Nasdaq notification letter. In the event of delisting by Nasdaq, our common shares might continue to trade on the \"over-the-counter\" (\"OTC\") market although there are no assurances. OTC transactions involve risks in addition to those associated with transactions on a stock exchange. Many OTC stocks trade less frequently and in smaller volumes than stocks listed on an exchange. Accordingly, OTC-traded shares are less liquid and are likely to be more volatile than exchange-traded stocks.. 32. Table of Contents. Competition from financial institutions and other financial service providers may adversely affect our growth and profitability.. The banking business is highly competitive and we experience competition in each of our markets from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other super-regional, national, and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and has forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which reduces net interest income. While we believe we can, and do, successfully compete with these other financial institutions in our primary markets, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size, smaller resources, smaller lending limits, lack of geographic diversification, and inability to spread our marketing costs across a broader market. Although we compete by concentrating our marketing efforts in our primary markets with local advertisements, personal contacts, and greater flexibility and responsiveness in working with local customers, we can give no assurance this strategy will continue to be successful.. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability and affect the value of our assets.. Like other financial institutions, we are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any defined period of time, our interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying our loan and deposit products (e.g., prime) may not change to the same degree over a given time period. In any event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, our earnings may be negatively affected. In addition, loan volume and quality and deposit volume and mix can be affected by market interest rates. Changes in levels of market interest rates could materially adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, origination volume, and overall profitability. We currently have a large number of loans that will reprice in the near future. At December 31, 2008, $427.8 million, or 48.3%, of our loan portfolio including loans available for sale may reprice in January 2009, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations.. From September 2007 to December 2008, the U.S. Federal Reserve decreased its target for the federal funds from 5.25% to 0.25%. As a result of this, adjustable rate loans have repriced immediately while our largest type of deposits, time deposits, reprice upon maturity if they are rolled over, compressing our interest rate spread and net interest margin. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce their borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk as we may have to redeploy such loan or securities proceeds into lower-yielding assets, which might also negatively impact our income. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, our interest rate spread was 2.36% compared to 2.99%, respectively. If short-term interest rates rise, and if rates on our deposits reprice upwards faster than the rates on our long-term loans and investments, we would experience compression of our interest rate spread and net interest margin, which would have a negative effect on our profitability. For additional information, see Interest Rate Sensitivity Analysis under \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\". We principally manage interest rate risk by managing the volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially harmed.. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate real estate loans, the value of our assets, and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings.. We are dependent upon the services of our management team.. Our future success and profitability is substantially dependent upon the management and banking abilities of our senior executives. We believe that our future results will also depend in part upon our attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified management. We are especially dependent on a limited number of key management personnel and the loss of our chief executive officer or other senior executive officers could have a material adverse impact on our operations because other officers may not have the experience and expertise to readily replace these individuals. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 33. Table of Contents. Our failure to continue to recruit and retain qualified loan originators could adversely affect our ability to compete successfully and affect our profitability.. Our continued success and future growth depend heavily on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled and motivated loan originators and other banking professionals. We compete against many institutions with greater financial resources, both within our industry and in other industries, to attract these qualified individuals. Our failure to recruit and retain adequate talent could reduce our ability to compete successfully and adversely affect our business and profitability.. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations.. Cooperative Bank is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the North Carolina Office of the Commissioner of Banks and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of its deposits. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which a commercial bank and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the DIF and for the depositors of Cooperative Bank and are not intended to protect the interests of investors in our common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and Nasdaq that are applicable to us, have increased the scope, complexity, and cost of corporate governance, reporting, and disclosure practices, including the costs of completing our audit and maintaining our internal controls.. We are subject to security and operational risks relating to our use of technology that could damage our reputation and our business.. Security breaches in our internet banking activities could expose us to possible liability and damage our reputation. Any compromise of our security also could deter customers from using our internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. We rely on standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures that could result in damage to our reputation and our business.. We may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to invest in technological improvements.. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers.. Bankshares' ability to service our debt and otherwise pay our obligations as they come due is substantially dependent on capital distributions from Cooperative Bank, and these distributions are subject to regulatory limits and other restrictions.. A substantial source of Bankshares' income from which we service our debt and pay our obligations is the receipt of dividends from Cooperative Bank. Pursuant to the Order and the Consent Agreement, the Bank is required to obtain prior regulatory approval of the FDIC and Commissioner before making dividend payments to Bankshares. In the event that the Bank is unable to obtain regulatory approval to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service our debt or pay our obligations. The inability to receive dividends from Cooperative Bank may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.. 34. Table of Contents. Cooperative Bank's loan portfolio contains concentrations of credit to borrowers which creates special credit risk.. Credit risk is the risk that one or more of the Bank's borrowers will not be able to repay some or all of their obligations to the Bank and is an inherent part of the Bank's business. Concentrations of credit occur when the aggregate amount owed by one borrower, a related group of borrowers, or borrowers within an industry or group represent a relatively large percentage of the total credit extended by the Bank. Although each loan in a concentration may be of sound quality, concentrations of credit create special risks that are not present when the same loan amount is extended to a group of unrelated borrowers. Loans concentrated to one borrower depend, to a large degree, upon the financial capability and character of the individual borrower. Loans made to a related group of borrowers can be more susceptible to adverse consequences if financial problems are experienced by one or a few members of that group. At December 31, 2008, the Bank had seventeen borrowing relationships (related to one borrower or a related group of borrowers) that approached or exceeded the Bank's legal lending limit to one borrower (aggregate borrowings above $8.0 million). At December 31, 2008, the total amount committed by the Bank on these borrowing relationships, which includes the principal balance of loans outstanding and any available credit on lines of credit, was $127.3 million. As of December 31, 2008, seven of these borrowing relationships were considered impaired in accordance with SFAS No. 114. The aggregate impaired loan balance on these borrowing relationships at December 31, 2008 was $43.8 million. Any additional adverse classification of any of these loans could have a negative affect on our earnings."
