[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. (In thousands, except for statistical data). In addition to the other information set forth in this report, the following factors could materially affect the Company's business, financial condition, cash flows or future results. Any one of these factors could cause the Company's actual results to vary materially from recent results or from anticipated future results. The risks described below are not the only risks facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and/or operating results.. Risks Relating to Our Business. Raw material cost increases or shortages could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.. As a member of the print industry, our sales and profitability are dependent upon the availability and cost of various raw materials, which are subject to price fluctuations, and the ability to control the fluctuating costs of raw materials, pass on any price increases to our customers or find suitable alternative suppliers. If we are unable to effectively manage these costs or improve our operating efficiencies, or if adverse developments arise concerning certain key raw material vendors, such as disruptions in their productions or lack of availability of the raw materials we need from them, or our relationships with them, our profit margin may decline, especially if the inflationary conditions that have occurred in these markets in the recent past continue to occur.. We face risks related to interruption of our operations and lack of redundancy.. Our production facilities, websites, transaction processing systems, network infrastructure, supply chain and customer service operations may be vulnerable to interruptions, including by cyber-attack, and we do not have redundancies in all cases to carry on these operations in the event of an interruption. Specifically, the long-term shutdown of our printing presses or malfunctions experienced with our presses could negatively impact our ability to fulfill customers' orders and on-time delivery needs and adversely impact our operating results and cash flows. We have not identified alternatives to all of our facilities, systems, supply chains and infrastructure, including production, to serve us in the event of an interruption, and if we were to find alternatives, they may not be able to meet our requirements on commercially acceptable terms or at all. In addition, we are dependent in part on third parties for the implementation and maintenance of certain aspects of our communications and production systems, and because many of the causes of system interruptions or interruptions of the production process may be outside of our control, we may not be able to remedy such interruptions in a timely manner, or at all. Any interruptions that cause any of our websites to be unavailable, reduce our order fulfillment performance or interfere with our manufacturing, technology or customer service operations could result in lost revenue, increased costs, negative publicity, damage to our reputation and brand, and an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Building redundancies into our infrastructure, systems and supply chain to mitigate these risks may require us to commit substantial financial, operational and technical resources, in some cases before the volume of our business increases with no assurance that our revenues will increase.. Various laws and governmental regulations applicable to a manufacturer or distributor of consumer products may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our business is subject to numerous federal, state, provincial, local and foreign laws and regulations, including laws and regulations with respect to labor and employment, product safety, including regulations enforced by the United States Consumer Products Safety Commission, import and export activities, the Internet and e-commerce, antitrust issues, taxes, chemical usage, air emissions, wastewater and storm water discharges and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials, including hazardous materials. We routinely incur costs in complying with these regulations and, if we fail to comply, could incur significant penalties.. Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, because legal requirements frequently change and are subject to interpretation, we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance or the consequences of non-compliance with these requirements, or the effect on our operations, any of which may be significant. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we may be subject to criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, or prohibitions on importing or exporting. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or concerns about product safety, also may lead to a recall or post-manufacture repair of selected products, resulting in the rejection of our products by our customers and consumers, lost sales, increased customer service and support costs, and costly litigation. In addition, failure to comply with environmental requirements could require us to shut down one or more of our facilities. There is risk that any claims or liabilities, including product liability claims, relating to such noncompliance may exceed, or fall outside the scope of, our insurance coverage. Laws and regulations at the state, federal and international levels frequently change and the cost of compliance cannot be precisely estimated. Any changes in regulations, the imposition of additional regulations, or the enactment of any new governmental legislation that impacts employment/labor, trade, health care, tax, environmental or other business issues could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in applicable tax regulations could adversely affect our financial results.. The Company is subject to taxation in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"). The changes included in the Tax Act. 8. are broad and complex. The final transition impact of the Tax Act may differ from the estimates provided elsewhere in this report, possibly materially, due to, among other things, changes in interpretations of the Tax Act, any legislative action to address questions that arise because of the Tax Act, any changes in accounting standards for income taxes or related interpretations in response to the Tax Act, or any updates or changes to estimates the Company has utilized to calculate the transition impact, including impact from changes to current year earnings estimates and foreign exchange rates of foreign subsidiaries. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has issued rules that would allow for a measurement period of up to one year after the enactment date of the Tax Act to finalize the recording of the related tax impact.. As this and other tax regulations change and as there are updates or changes to our estimates of the transition impact, our financial results could be adversely impacted.. We must be able to continue to effectively manage our growth, including our recent acquisitions, and to execute our long-term growth strategy.. We have experienced significant and steady growth over the last several years. Our growth, in particular our recent acquisitions, combined with the geographical separation of our operations, has placed, and will continue to place, a strain on our management, administrative and operational infrastructure. Our ability to manage our operations and anticipated growth will require us to continue to refine our operational, financial and management controls, human resource policies, reporting systems and procedures in the locations in which we operate. In addition, our expectations regarding the earnings, operating cash flow, capital expenditures and liabilities resulting from acquisitions recently completed are based on information currently available to us and may prove to be incorrect. We may not be able to implement improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. If we are unable to realize any of the anticipated benefits of an acquisition or manage expected future expansion, or if our long-term growth strategy is not successful, our ability to provide a high-quality customer experience could be harmed, which would damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. In addition, projections made by us in connection with forming our long-term growth strategy are inherently uncertain and based on assumptions and judgments by management that may be flawed or based on information about our business and markets that may change in the future, many of which are beyond our reasonable control. These and various other factors may cause our actual results to differ materially from our projections.. We are subject to risks associated with our international operations, including compliance with applicable U.S. and foreign anti-corruption laws and regulations such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010 and other applicable anti-corruption laws, which may increase the cost of doing business in international jurisdictions.. We have operations in the North American, Latin American, EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and Asia Pacific regions and we intend to continue expansion of our international operations. As a result, our business is exposed to risks inherent in foreign operations. If we fail to adequately address the challenges and risks associated with our international expansion and acquisition strategy, we may encounter difficulties implementing our strategy, which could impede our growth or harm our operating results. These risks, which can vary substantially by jurisdiction, include the difficulties associated with managing an organization with operations in multiple countries, compliance with differing laws and regulations (including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010 and local laws prohibiting payments to government officials and other corrupt practices, tax laws, regulations and rates), enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors and agents will not take actions in violation of our policies, particularly as we expand our operations through organic growth and acquisitions. Any such violations could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, including material fines or prohibitions on our ability to offer our products in one or more countries, and could also materially damage our reputation, brand, international expansion efforts, business and operating results. Additional risks include the potential for restrictive actions by foreign governments, changes in economic conditions in each market, foreign customers who may have longer payment cycles than customers in the United States, the impact of economic, political and social instability of those countries in which we operate and acts of nature, such as typhoons, tsunamis, or earthquakes. The overall volatility of the economic environment has increased the risk of disruption and losses resulting from hyper-inflation, currency devaluation and tax or regulatory changes in certain countries in which we have operations. Approximately 55% of our sales were derived from our foreign operations (based on the country from which the product was shipped) during fiscal 2018.. We also face the challenges and uncertainties associated with operating in developing markets, which may subject us to a relatively high risk of political and social instability and economic volatility, all of which are enhanced, in many cases, by uncertainties as to how local law is applied and enforced, including in areas most relevant to commercial transactions and foreign investment.. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our revenue, cash flows and financial results.. Because we conduct a significant portion of our business outside the United States, our revenues and earnings and the value of our foreign net assets are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which may favorably or adversely affect reported earnings and net assets. Currency exchange rates fluctuate in response to, among other things, changes in local, regional or global economic conditions, the imposition of currency exchange restrictions and unexpected changes in regulatory or taxation environments. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may affect the Company's operating performance by impacting revenues and expenses outside of the United States due to fluctuations in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar or where the Company translates into U.S. Dollars for financial reporting purposes the assets and liabilities of its foreign operations conducted in local currencies.. 9. We have risks related to continued uncertain global economic conditions and volatility in the credit markets.. At times, domestic and international financial markets have experienced extreme disruption, including, among other things, extreme volatility in stock prices and severely diminished liquidity and credit availability. These developments and the related severe domestic and international economic downturns could adversely impact our business and financial condition in a number of ways, including effects beyond those that were experienced in previous recessions in the United States and foreign economies.. Global economic conditions also affect our customers' businesses and the markets they serve, as well as our suppliers. Because a significant part of our business relies on our customers' spending, a prolonged downturn in the global economy and an uncertain economic outlook could reduce the demand for printing and related services that we provide to these customers. Economic weakness and constrained advertising spending have resulted, and may in the future result, in decreased revenue, operating margin, earnings and growth rates and difficulty in managing inventory levels and collecting accounts receivable. We also have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, operating margin declines in certain businesses, reflecting the effect of items such as competitive pricing pressures and inventory write-downs. Economic downturns may also result in restructuring actions and associated expenses and impairment of long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangibles. Uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments.. Finally, economic downturns may affect one or more of our lenders' ability to fund future draws on our Credit Facility or our ability to access the capital markets or obtain new financing arrangements that are favorable to us. In such an event, our liquidity could be severely constrained with an adverse impact on our ability to operate our businesses. Our ability to meet the financial covenants in the Credit Facility may also be affected by events beyond our control, including a deterioration of economic and industry conditions, which could negatively affect our earnings. If it is determined we are not in compliance with these financial covenants, the lenders under the Credit Facility will be entitled to take certain actions, including acceleration of all amounts due under the facility. If the lenders take such action, we may be forced to amend the terms of the credit agreement, obtain a waiver or find alternative sources of capital. Obtaining new financing arrangements or amending our existing one may result in significantly higher fees and ongoing interest costs as compared to those in our current arrangement.. Competition in our industry could limit our ability to retain current customers and attract new customers.. The markets for our products and services are highly competitive and constantly evolving. We compete primarily based on the level and quality of customer service, technological leadership, product performance and price and the inability to successfully overcome competition in our business could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and cash flows. Some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than us. We could face competitive pressure as a result of any of the following: our ability to continue to improve our product and service offerings and keep pace with and integrate technological advances and industry evolutions; new products developed by our competitors that are of superior quality, fit our customers' needs better or have lower prices; patents obtained or developed by competitors; consolidation of our competitors; pricing pressures; loss of proprietary supplies of certain materials; decrease in the utilization of labels. The inability to successfully identify, develop and sell new or improved products and to overcome competition in our business could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and cash flows.. Our business growth strategy involves the potential for significant acquisitions, which involve risks and difficulties in integrating potential acquisitions and may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. All acquisitions involve inherent uncertainties, which may include, among other things, our ability to:. <U+0095>   successfully identify targets for acquisition;. <U+0095>   negotiate reasonable terms;. <U+0095>   properly perform due diligence and determine all the significant risks associated with a particular acquisition;. <U+0095>   properly evaluate target company management capabilities; and. <U+0095>   successfully transition the acquired company into our business and achieve the desired performance.. We may acquire businesses with unknown liabilities, contingent liabilities, or internal control deficiencies. We have plans and procedures to conduct reviews of potential acquisition candidates for compliance with applicable regulations and laws prior to acquisition. Despite these efforts, realization of any of these liabilities or deficiencies may increase our expenses, adversely affect our financial position through the initiation, pendency or outcome of litigation or otherwise, or cause us to fail to meet our public financial reporting obligations.. We have a history of making acquisitions and, over the past several years, have invested, and in the future may continue to invest, a substantial amount of capital in acquisitions. We continue to evaluate potential acquisition opportunities to support, strengthen and grow our business. Although we have completed many acquisitions, there can be no assurance that we will be able to locate suitable acquisition candidates, acquire possible acquisition candidates, acquire such candidates on commercially reasonable terms, or integrate acquired businesses successfully in the future. In addition, any governmental review or investigation of our proposed acquisitions, such as by the Federal Trade Commission, may impede, limit or prevent us from proceeding with an acquisition. Future acquisitions may require us to incur additional debt and contingent liabilities, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The process of integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations may result in operating, contract and supply chain difficulties, such. 10. as the failure to retain customers or management personnel. Such difficulties may divert significant financial, operational and managerial resources from our existing operations, and make it more difficult to achieve our operating and strategic objectives.. We have a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets on our balance sheet that are subject to periodic impairment evaluations; an impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. When we acquire a business, a portion of the purchase price of the acquisition may be allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. The amount of the purchase price which is allocated to goodwill is the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net identifiable tangible assets acquired. As of March 31, 2018, we had $1,776,867 of goodwill and intangible assets, the value of which depends on a number of factors, including earnings growth, market capitalization and the overall success of our business. Accounting standards require us to test goodwill for impairment annually, and more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate impairment may exist.. There can be no assurance that reviews of our goodwill and other intangible assets will not result in impairment charges. Although it does not affect cash flow, an impairment charge does have the effect of decreasing our earnings, assets and shareholders' equity. Future events may occur that could adversely affect the value of our assets and require future impairment charges. Such events may include, but are not limited to, poor operating results, strategic decisions made in response to changes in economic and competitive conditions, the impact of a deteriorating economic environment and decreases in our market capitalization due to a decline in the trading price of our common stock.. During the early years of an acquisition, the risk of impairment to goodwill and intangible assets is naturally higher. This is because the fair values of these assets align very closely with what we recently paid to acquire the reporting units to which these assets are assigned. This means the difference between the carrying value of the reporting unit and its fair value (typically referred to as \"headroom\") is naturally smaller at the time of acquisition. Until this headroom grows over time (due to business growth or lower carrying value of the reporting unit due to natural amortization, etc.), a relatively small decrease in reporting unit fair value can trigger an impairment. That fair value is affected by actual business performance but is also determined by the market (usually reflected in the value of our common stock). As a consequence, sometimes even with favorable business performance, the market alone can drive an impairment condition if general business valuations decline significantly. When impairment charges are triggered, they tend to be material due to the sheer size of the assets involved.. Our debt instruments impose operating and financial restrictions on us and, in the event of a default, would have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. As of March 31, 2018, our consolidated indebtedness, including current maturities of long-term indebtedness, was $1,627,854 which could have important consequences including the following:. <U+0095>   Increasing our vulnerability to global economic and industry conditions;. <U+0095>   Requiring a substantial portion of cash flows from operating activities to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and, as a result, reducing our ability to use our cash flows to fund our operations and capital expenditures, pay dividends, capitalize on future business opportunities and expand our business;. <U+0095>   Exposing us to the risk of increased interest expense as certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest;. <U+0095>   Limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, additional acquisitions and other business purposes; and. <U+0095>   Limiting our flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions and react to competitive pressures.. We may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our credit agreements. If new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify.. Our debt instruments contain covenants that limit our flexibility in operating our business.. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain various covenants that may adversely affect our ability to operate our business. Among other things, these covenants limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness, dispose of assets, incur guarantee obligations, make restricted payments, create liens, make equity or debt investments, change the business conducted by the Company and its subsidiaries, and engage in certain transactions with affiliates.. The agreements governing our indebtedness also require that (i) the consolidated secured net leverage ratio as of the last day of any. fiscal quarter of the Company shall not exceed 4.50 to 1.00 for the fiscal quarters ended during the period of March 31, 2017 through, and including June 30, 2019 and (ii) the consolidated secured net leverage ratio as of the last day of any fiscal quarter of the Company shall not exceed 4.25 to 1.00 for the fiscal quarters ended during the period of September 30, 2019 and thereafter.. Our ability to meet the financial ratios and tests contained in our credit agreement and other debt arrangements, and otherwise comply with debt covenants may be affected by various events, including those that may be beyond our control. Accordingly, we may not be able. 11. to continue to meet those ratios, tests and covenants. A significant breach of any of these covenants, ratios, tests or restrictions, as applicable, could result in an event of default under our debt arrangements, which would allow our lenders to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable. If the lenders were to accelerate the payment of our indebtedness, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full the indebtedness and any other indebtedness that would become due as a result of any acceleration. Further, as a result of any breach and during any cure period or negotiations to resolve a breach or expected breach, our lenders may refuse to make further loans, which would materially affect our liquidity and results of operations.. In the event we were to fall out of compliance with one or more of our debt covenants in the future, we may not be successful in amending our debt arrangements or obtaining waivers for any such non-compliance. Even if we are successful in entering into an amendment or waiver, we could incur substantial costs in doing so. It is also possible that any amendments to our debt instruments or any restructured debt could impose covenants and financial ratios more restrictive than under our current facility. Any of the foregoing events could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain the necessary waivers or amendments on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.. We rely on several large customers and the loss of one of these customers would have a material adverse impact on our operating results and cash flows.. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, one customer accounted for approximately 14% of our consolidated sales and our top twenty-five customers accounted for approximately 43% of our consolidated sales. While we maintain sales contracts with certain of our largest customers, such contracts do not impose minimum purchase or volume requirements and these contracts require renewal on a regular basis in the ordinary course of business. Any termination of a business relationship with, or a significant sustained reduction in business received from, one or more of our largest customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. The volume and type of services we provide all of our customers may vary from year to year and could be reduced if a customer were to change its outsourcing or print procurement strategy. We cannot guarantee that these contracts will be successfully renewed in the future. The loss or substantial reduction in business of any of our major customers could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and cash flows.. We are highly dependent on information technology. If our systems fail or are unreliable our operations may be adversely impacted.. The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology infrastructure and our management information systems. In addition, production technology in the printing industry has continued to evolve specifically related to the pre-press component of production. Our information technology infrastructure and/or our management information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural or man-made disasters, terrorist attacks, computer viruses or hackers, power loss, or other computer systems, Internet telecommunications or data network failures. Any significant breakdown, virus or destruction could negatively impact our business. We also periodically upgrade and install new systems, which if installed or programmed incorrectly, could cause significant disruptions. If a disruption occurs, we could incur losses and costs for interruption of our operations.. We are involved on an ongoing basis in claims, lawsuits, and governmental proceedings relating to our operations, including environmental, commercial transactions, and other matters.. The ultimate outcome of these claims, lawsuits, and governmental proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty, but could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow. We are also involved in other possible claims, including product and general liability, workers compensation and employment-related matters, some of which may be of a material nature or may be resolved in a manner that has a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow. While we maintain insurance for certain of these exposures, the policies in place are high-deductible policies resulting in our assuming exposure for a layer of coverage with respect to such claims.. We cannot predict our future capital needs and any limits on our ability to raise capital in the future could prevent further growth.. We may in the future be required to raise capital through public or private financing or other arrangements. Such financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, and our failure to raise capital when needed could harm our business. Additional equity financing may be dilutive to the holders of our common stock, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants and could reduce our profitability. In addition, we may experience operational difficulties and delays due to working capital restrictions. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may have to delay or scale back our growth plans and may not be able to effectively manage competitive pressures.. We depend on key personnel, and we may not be able to operate and grow our business effectively if we lose their services or are unable to attract qualified personnel in the future.. We are dependent upon the efforts of our senior management team. The success of our business is heavily dependent on our ability to retain our current management and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Competition for senior management personnel is intense, and we may not be able to retain our personnel. We enter into employment agreements with certain key personnel: our Executive Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, Chief Operating Officer-Consumer Product Goods, Chief Operating Officer-Food & Beverage, Chief Operating Officer-Wine & Spirits and Chief Financial Officer. These individuals may not continue in their present capacity with us for any particular period of time. Outside of the implementation of succession plans and executive transitions done in the normal course of business, the loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team could require the remaining executive. 12. officers to divert immediate and substantial attention to seeking a replacement and would disrupt our business and impede our ability to execute our business strategy. Any inability to find a replacement for a departing executive officer on a timely basis could adversely affect our ability to operate and grow our business.. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, we may lose some of our competitive advantage.. Our success is determined in part by our ability to obtain United States and foreign patent protection for our technology and to preserve our trade secrets. Our ability to compete and the ability of our business to grow could suffer if our intellectual property rights are not adequately protected. There can be no assurance that our patent applications will result in patents being issued or that current or additional patents will afford protection against competitors. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secret protection and contractual rights to establish and protect our intellectual property. Failure of our patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secret protection, non-disclosure agreements and other measures to provide protection of our technology and our intellectual property rights could enable our competitors to more effectively compete with us and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our trade secrets and proprietary know-how may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by others. No guarantee can be given that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or techniques, or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technology.. We could become involved in intellectual property litigation, which is costly and could cause us to lose our intellectual property rights or subject us to liability.. Although we have received patents with respect to certain technologies of ours, there can be no assurance that these patents will afford us any meaningful protection. Although we believe that our use of the technology and products we developed and other trade secrets used in our operations do not infringe upon the rights of others, our use of the technology and trade secrets we developed may infringe upon the patents or intellectual property rights of others. In the event of infringement, we could, under certain circumstances, be required to obtain a license or modify aspects of the technology and trade secrets we developed or refrain from using the same. We may not have the necessary financial resources to defend an infringement claim made against us or be able to successfully terminate any infringement in a timely manner, upon acceptable terms and conditions or at all. Moreover, if the patents, technology or trade secrets we developed or use in our business are deemed to infringe upon the rights of others, we could, under certain circumstances, become liable for damages, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our financial condition. As we continue to market our products, we could encounter patent barriers that are not known today. Furthermore, third parties may assert that our intellectual property rights are invalid, which could result in significant expenditures by us to refute such assertions. If we become involved in litigation, we could lose our proprietary rights, be subject to damages and incur substantial unexpected operating expenses. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming, even if the claims are subsequently proven unfounded, and could divert management's attention from our business. If there is a successful claim of infringement, we may not be able to develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or license agreements on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unsuccessful in defending claims that our intellectual property rights are invalid, we may not be able to enter into royalty or license agreements on acceptable terms, if at all. This could prohibit us from providing our products and services to customers, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our financial condition.. Employee benefit costs, including increasing health care costs for our employees may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We seek to provide competitive employee benefit programs to our employees. Employee benefit costs, such as U.S. healthcare costs of our eligible and participating employees, may increase significantly at a rate that is difficult to forecast, in part because we are unable to determine the impact that U.S. federal healthcare legislation may have on our employer-sponsored medical plans. Higher employee benefit costs could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We provide health care and other benefits to our employees. In recent years, costs for health care have increased more rapidly than general inflation in the U.S. economy. If this trend in health care costs continues, our cost to provide such benefits could increase, adversely impacting our profitability. Changes to health care regulations in the U.S. may also increase the cost to us of providing such benefits.. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock. Our operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter.. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including:. <U+0095>   timing of the completion of particular projects or orders;. <U+0095>   material reduction, postponement or cancellation of major projects, or the loss of a major client;. <U+0095>   timing and amount of new business;. <U+0095>   differences in order flows;. <U+0095>   sensitivity to the effects of changing economic conditions on our clients' businesses;. 13. <U+0095>   the strength of the consumer products industry;. <U+0095>   the relative mix of different types of work with differing margins;. <U+0095>   costs relating to expansion or reduction of operations, including costs to integrate current and any future acquisitions;. <U+0095>   changes in interest costs, foreign currency exchange rates and tax rates; and. <U+0095>   costs associated with compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.. Because of this, we may be unable to adjust spending on fixed costs, such as building and equipment leases, depreciation and personnel costs, quickly enough to offset any revenue shortfall and our operating results could be adversely affected. Due to these factors or other unanticipated events, our financial and operating results in any one quarter may not be a reliable indicator of our future performance.. If we fail to comply with U.S. public company reporting obligations or to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. As a U.S. public company, we are required to comply with the periodic reporting obligations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including preparing annual reports, quarterly reports and current reports. We are also subject to certain of the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Dodd-Frank Act which, among other things, require enhanced disclosure of business, financial, compensation and governance information. Our failure to prepare and disclose this information in a timely manner could subject us to penalties under federal securities laws, expose us to lawsuits, and restrict our ability to access financing. We may identify areas requiring improvement with respect to our internal control over financial reporting, which may require us to design enhanced processes and controls to address any additional issues identified. This could result in significant delays and cost to us and require us to divert substantial resources, including management time, from other activities. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud.. Certain provisions of Ohio law and our Articles of Incorporation and Code of Regulations may deter takeover attempts, which may limit the opportunity of our shareholders to sell their shares at a favorable price, and may make it more difficult for our shareholders to remove our Board of Directors and management.. Provisions in our Amended Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Code of Regulations may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following:. <U+0095>   advance notice requirements for shareholders proposals and nominations;. <U+0095>   the right of the board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or due to the resignation or departure of an existing board member;. <U+0095>   the prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of shareholders to elect director candidates; and. <U+0095>   limitations on the removal of directors.. In addition, because we are incorporated in Ohio, we are governed by the provisions of Section 1704 of the Ohio Revised Code. These provisions may prohibit large shareholders, particularly those owning 10% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. These provisions in our Articles of Incorporation and Code of Regulations and under Ohio law could discourage potential takeover attempts, could reduce the price that investors are willing to pay for our common shares in the future and could potentially result in the market price being lower than it would without these provisions.. Although no preferred shares were outstanding as of March 31, 2018 and although we have no present plans to issue any preferred shares, our Articles of Incorporation authorize the Board of Directors to issue up to 1,000 preferred shares. The preferred shares may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which will be determined at the time of issuance by our Board of Directors without further action by the shareholders. These terms may include voting rights, including the right to vote as a series on particular matters, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion rights, redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. The issuance of any preferred shares could diminish the rights of holders of our common shares and, therefore, could reduce the value of our common shares. In addition, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred shares could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell assets to, a third party. The ability of our Board of Directors to issue preferred shares and the foregoing anti-takeover provisions may prevent or frustrate attempts by a third party to acquire control of the Company, even if some of our shareholders consider such change of control to be beneficial."
