[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following are certain risk factors that could impact our business, financial results and results of operations. Investing in our common stock involves risks, including those described below. These risk factors should be considered by prospective and current investors in our common stock when evaluating the disclosures in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (particularly the forward-looking statements). These risk factors could cause actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. If any of the events in the following risks actually occur, or if additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we believe are immaterial do materialize, then our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. In addition, the trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of the events described in these risks.. The previous economic recession was severe in our primary market area of northern and east central Indiana, which is not a high growth market. A return of recessionary conditions could result in increases in our level of non-performing loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our business activities and earnings are affected by general business conditions in the United States and in our local market area. These conditions are impacted by changes to short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, unemployment levels, monetary supply, consumer confidence and spending, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, and the strength of the economy in the United States generally and in our primary market area in particular. The economy continues to recover from the recent most severe recession, which caused high unemployment levels, declining real estate values and eroded consumer confidence. The recession also reduced demand for commercial business and real estate loans in our local market. Declines in real estate values and other effects of the recession impacted household and corporate incomes, impairing the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans in accordance with their terms and increasing our non-performing loans, loan charge-offs, provisions for loan losses and foreclosures.. Substantially all of our loans are located in northern and east central Indiana, which was impacted by the recession more severely than the national average. Our primary market area, which consists of Allen, Delaware, Elkhart, Grant, Kosciusko, Randolph, St. Joseph and Wabash counties in Indiana and Berrien county in Michigan, has experienced limited population growth of 0.64% from 2000 through 2010. This data from the census bureau reflects population increases in our northern region market of 2.02% compared to the reduction in population of our central region of (3.04%). Unemployment levels in our market areas in Indiana historically have been above the state and federal averages but have been below the state and federal level over the last two years. According to data published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States Department of Labor, the national unemployment rate for the United States at December 31, 2017 was 3.9% (not seasonally adjusted) compared to an average rate of 3.9% (not seasonally adjusted) for our market areas in Indiana. See “Item 1 - Business - Market Area.”. A return of recessionary conditions in the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Declines in real estate values and sales volumes and an increase in unemployment levels may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies and a decline in demand for our products and services. These negative events may cause us to incur losses and may adversely affect our capital, liquidity, and financial condition. Stock prices for financial institution holding companies, including MutualFirst, would be expected to decline substantially, and it would be significantly more difficult to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets.. 33. Combining the Company and Universal Bancorp, which was completed during the first quarter 2018, may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected, and the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the merger may not be realized.. The success of the merger, including anticipated benefits and cost savings, will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully combine the businesses of MutualFirst and Universal. To realize these anticipated benefits and cost savings, after the completion of the merger, we expect to integrate Universal’s business into our own. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the merger. If we experience difficulties with the integration process, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. As with any merger of financial institutions, there also may be business disruptions that cause us and/or Universal to lose customers or cause customers to remove their accounts from MutualFirst and/or Universal and move their business to competing financial institutions. Integration efforts between the two companies will also divert management attention and resources. These integration matters could have an adverse effect on each of Universal and MutualFirst during this transition period and on us for an undetermined period after completion of the merger. In addition, the actual cost savings of the merger could be less than anticipated.. A substantial portion of our assets consist of various types of loans that carry varying levels of credit and interest rate risk and that are sensitive to changes in the local and national economies.. Loans Secured by Residential Property. At December 31, 2017, $518.3 million, or 43.5% of our total loan portfolio, was secured by one- to four-family residential property, including loans held for sale and home equity loans and home equity lines of credit. This type of lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations. Although we continue to see recovery in the market areas we serve, the decline in residential real estate values as a result of the last downturn in the Indiana housing markets has reduced the value of the real estate collateral securing these types of loans and increased the risk that we could incur losses if borrowers default on their loans. In addition, borrowers seeking to sell their homes may find that they cannot sell their properties for an amount equal to or greater than the unpaid principal loan balance. These potential negative events may cause us to incur losses, adversely affect our capital and liquidity and damage our financial condition and business operations.. Commercial Real Estate, Construction and Development and Commercial Business Loans. At December 31, 2017, $478.0 million, or 40.1% of our total loan portfolio, consisted of commercial real estate, construction and development and commercial business loans to small and mid-sized businesses, predominantly in our primary market area, which are the types of businesses that have a heightened vulnerability to local economic conditions. At December 31, 2017, our loan portfolio included $28.2 million of commercial construction and development loans, $318.7 million of commercial real estate loans and $131.1 million of commercial business loans compared to $22.5 million, $302.6 million and $131.1 million for construction and development, commercial real estate and business loans, respectively, at December 31, 2016. Because we have seen growth in the credit risk of the portfolio in 2017 primarily due to the increased percentage of our total loan portfolio in these types of loans, a decline in property values and other market impacts could lead to an increase in non-performing loans. See “Item 1 - Business of MutualBank - Asset Quality - Non-Performing Assets.”. The credit risk related to these types of loans is considered to be greater than the risk related to one- to four-family residential loans because the repayment of commercial real estate loans and commercial business loans typically is dependent on the successful operation and income stream of the borrowers’ business and the real estate securing the loans as collateral, which can be significantly affected by economic conditions. Any delinquent payments or the failure to repay these loans would hurt our earnings. Additionally, commercial loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential real estate loans. Several of our commercial borrowers have more than one commercial real estate or business loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to any one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Finally, if we foreclose on a commercial real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral, if any, is typically longer than a one- to four-family residential property because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. If loans that are collateralized by real estate become troubled and the value of the real estate has been significantly impaired, then we may not be able to recover the full contractual amount of principal and interest that we anticipated at the time we originated the loan, which could require us to increase our provision for loan losses and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. 34. Other Consumer Loans. At December 31, 2017, $195.0 million, or 16.4% of our total loan portfolio consisted of consumer loans, of which $19.6 million consisted of automobile loans, $169.2 million consisted of boat/RV loans and $6.2 million consisted of other consumer loans, including unsecured lines of credit. Generally, we consider these types of loans to involve a higher degree of risk compared to mortgage loans on one- to four-family, owner-occupied residential properties, particularly in the case of loans that are secured by rapidly depreciable assets, such as automobiles. In these cases, any repossessed collateral for a defaulted loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance. Although our indirect loans, which totaled $176.7 million at December 31, 2017, were underwritten by a third party using our guidelines, they were primarily originated to customers outside of our normal lending area which presents greater risks than other types of lending activities. As a result of this portfolio of consumer loans, it may become necessary to increase the level of our provision for loan losses, which could negatively impact our earnings and financial condition.. Adjustable Rate Loans. At December 31, 2017, $535.7 million, or 45.0% of our total loan portfolio consisted of adjustable rate loans. Borrowers with adjustable rate loans are exposed to increased monthly payments when the related interest rate adjusts upward under the terms of the loan to the rate computed in accordance with the applicable index and margin. Any rise in prevailing market interest rates may result in increased payments for borrowers who have adjustable-rate loans, increasing the possibility of default. Borrowers seeking to avoid these increased monthly payments by refinancing their loans may no longer be able to find available replacement loans at comparable or lower interest rates. In addition, declining real estate prices may prevent refinancing or a sale of the property, because borrowers have insufficient equity in the real estate. These events, alone or in combination, may contribute to higher delinquency rates and negatively impact our earnings.. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses or our non-performing assets increase, our earnings will suffer. Increases in our provision for loan losses adversely impact our earnings and operations.. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience and evaluate current economic conditions. Management recognizes that significant new growth in loan portfolios, new loan products and the refinancing of existing loans can result in portfolios comprised of unseasoned loans that may not perform in a historical or projected manner. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual losses, resulting in additions to our allowance. Additions to our allowance decrease our net income. Our regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to recognize additions to the allowance based on their judgments about information available to them at the time of their review. These increases in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our allowance for loan losses was 1.05% of gross loans and 235.90% of non-performing loans at December 31, 2017, compared to 1.06% of gross loans and 230.99% of non-performing loans at December 31, 2016 and 1.17% of gross loans and 176.28% of non-performing loans at December 31, 2015.. 35. At December 31, 2017, our non-performing assets (which consist of non-accrual loans, loans 90 days delinquent and still accruing, non-accrual troubled debt restructurings, foreclosed real estate and other repossessed assets) totaled $6.0 million, which was a decrease of $600,000, or a 9.0% reduction in non-performing assets from December 31, 2016. This decrease reflects improved economic conditions within our market areas. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or real estate owned. We must reserve for estimated credit losses, which are established through a current period charge to the provision for loan losses, and from time to time, if appropriate, we must write down the value of properties in our real estate owned (“REO”) portfolio to reflect changing market values. Additionally, there are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets as well as carrying costs including taxes, insurance and maintenance related to our REO. Further, the resolution of non-performing assets requires the active involvement of management, potentially distracting them from the overall supervision of our operations and other income-producing activities.. During 2017, we recorded a provision for loan losses of $1.2 million compared to $850,000 in 2016 and $125,000 in 2015. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $1.2 million in 2017, compared to $1.1 million in 2016 and $652,000 million in 2015. During 2017, we experienced an increase in net charge-offs in addition to an increase in our loan portfolio of $10.6 million. This combination increased our need to add to our allowance for loan loss to support the existing loan portfolio mix with commercial and non-real estate consumer loans making up 57.0% of the loan portfolio at the end of 2017 compared to 53.2% at the end of 2016. We did not experience declining trends in the housing, real estate and local business markets; however, if that would return, we would expect increased levels of delinquencies and credit losses to return, which would adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our results of operations and financial condition are affected significantly by changes in interest rates. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Because interest-bearing liabilities generally reprice or mature more quickly than interest-earning assets, an increase in interest rates generally would tend to result in a decrease in net interest income.. Changes in interest rates also may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates or continuing low interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce their borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we have been and continue to be subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans. Also, increases in interest rates may extend the life of fixed-rate assets, which could limit the funds we have available to reinvest in higher-yielding alternatives, and may result in customers withdrawing certificates of deposit early so long as the early withdrawal penalty is less than the interest they could receive as a result of the higher market interest rates.. Changes in interest rates also affect the current fair value of our interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2017, the fair value of our portfolio of available for sale securities totaled $277.4 million. Gross unrealized gains on these securities totaled $4.1 million, while gross unrealized losses on these securities totaled $3.5 million, resulting in a net unrealized gain of $529,000 at December 31, 2017.. At December 31, 2017, our interest rate risk analysis indicated that our net portfolio value would decrease by 10.4% if there was an instantaneous parallel 200 basis point increase in market interest rates. See the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation - Asset/Liability Management.”. 36. Our strategies to modify our interest rate risk profile may be difficult to implement.. Our asset/liability management strategies are designed to minimize our interest rate risk sensitivity. One such strategy is to increase the amount of adjustable rate and/or short-term assets. The Bank offers adjustable rate loan products as a means to achieve this strategy. The recent availability of lower rates on fixed-rate loans has generally created a decrease in borrower demand for adjustable rate assets. Additionally, these adjustable-rate assets may prepay. Despite this, at December 31, 2017, 45.0% of our loan portfolio consisted of adjustable-rate loans, compared to 42.2% at December 31, 2016.. We also are managing our liabilities to moderate our interest rate risk sensitivity. Customer demand is primarily for short-term certificates of deposit and transaction accounts. Using short-term liabilities to fund long-term, fixed-rate assets will increase the interest rate sensitivity of any financial institution. When needed, we are utilizing FHLB advances agreements to mitigate the impact of customer demand by lengthening the maturities of these advances or entering into longer term repurchase agreements, depending on liquidity or investment opportunities.. FHLB advances are entered into as liquidity is needed or to fund assets that provide for a spread considered sufficient by management. If we are unable to originate adjustable rate assets at favorable rates or fund loan originations or securities purchases with long-term advances or structured borrowings, we may have difficulty executing this asset/liability management strategy and/or it may result in a reduction in profitability.. OTTI charges in our investment securities portfolio could result in losses and adversely affect our continuing operations. Our securities portfolio may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in market value and interest rates, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition.. Our securities portfolio may be impacted by fluctuations in market value, potentially reducing accumulated other comprehensive income and/or earnings, which may materially adversely affect our stockholders’ equity, regulatory capital and continuing operations. Fluctuations in market value may be caused by decreases in interest rates, lower market prices for securities and limited investor demand, as well as the default rates of specific financial institutions whose securities provide the underlying collateral for these securities and changes in credit risk based on the condition of the issuer. The valuation of our investment securities also is influenced by the implementation of Securities and Exchange Commission and Financial Accounting Standards Board guidance on fair value accounting, which requires us to report our available for sale securities at their estimated fair value. Our stockholders’ equity is periodically adjusted by the amount of change in the estimated fair value of the available for sale securities, net of taxes. At December 31, 2017, the change in unrealized gains on securities available for sale from the level at December 31, 2016 was an increase of $2.4 million. When OTTI is present, the market environment more likely than not limits our ability to mitigate our exposure to valuation changes in these securities by selling them.. Our securities portfolio is evaluated for OTTI on at least a quarterly basis. If this evaluation shows impairment to the actual or projected cash flows associated with one or more securities, a potential loss to earnings may occur. We have not recorded any OTTI since 2011. As of December 31, 2017, we have no securities that are deemed impaired.. 37. If our investments in real estate are not properly valued or sufficiently reserved for to cover actual losses, or if we are required to increase our valuation reserves, our earnings could be reduced.. We obtain updated valuations in the form of appraisals and broker price opinions when a loan has been foreclosed and the property taken in as REO, and at certain other times during the assets holding period. Our net book value (“NBV”) in the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the updated market value of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs (fair value). A charge-off is recorded for any excess in the asset’s NBV over its fair value. If our valuation process is incorrect, the fair value of our investments in real estate may not be sufficient to recover our NBV in such assets, resulting in the need for additional charge-offs. Additional material charge-offs to our investments in real estate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our regulators periodically review our REO and may require us to recognize further charge-offs. Any increase in our charge-offs, as required by our regulator, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We face risks related to covenants in our loan sales to investors and secondary mortgage market conditions.. Our agreements with investors to sell our loans generally contain covenants that require us to repurchase loans under certain circumstances, including some delinquencies, or to return premiums paid by those investors if the loans are paid off early. If we are required to repurchase sold loans under these covenants, they may be deemed troubled loans, with the potential for charge-offs and/or loss provision changes, which could impact our earnings and asset quality ratios adversely. The Bank was not required to repurchase any loans from investors during 2017 or 2016.. Our ability to sell loans on the secondary mortgage market is impacted by interest rate changes and investor demand or expected return. If this market becomes less liquid, we may not be able to rely as much on loan sales to reduce our interest rate and credit risk.. We use estimates in determining the fair value of certain assets, such as mortgage servicing rights (“MSRs”). If our estimates prove to be incorrect, we may be required to write down the value of these assets which could adversely affect our earnings.. We sell a portion of our one- to four-family loans in the secondary market. We generally retain the right to service these loans through the Bank. At December 31, 2017, the book value of our MSRs was $1.5 million. We use a financial model that uses, wherever possible, quoted market prices to value our MSRs. This model is complex and also uses assumptions related to interest and discount rates, prepayment speeds, delinquency and foreclosure rates and ancillary fee income. Valuations are highly dependent upon the reasonableness of our assumptions and the predictability of the relationships that drive the results of the model. The primary risk associated with MSRs is that they will lose a substantial portion of their value as a result of higher than anticipated prepayments occasioned by declining interest rates. Conversely, these assets generally increase in value in a rising interest rate environment to the extent that prepayments are slower than anticipated. If prepayment speeds increase more than estimated or delinquency and default levels are higher than anticipated we may be required to write down the value of our MSRs which could have a material adverse effect on our net income and capital levels. The Company obtains independent valuations at least semi-annually to determine if impairment in the asset exists.. 38. Declining economic conditions may adversely impact the fees generated by our asset management and trust business.. To the extent our asset management and trust clients and their assets become adversely impacted by weak economic and stock market conditions, they may choose to withdraw the assets managed by us and/or the value of their assets may decline. Our asset management revenues are based on the value of the assets we manage. If our clients withdraw assets or the value of their assets decline, our revenues from these activities may be adversely affected. These fees totaled $4.0 million and $3.9 million in 2017 and 2016, respectively.. We face significant operational and reputational risks. As a community bank, maintaining our reputation in our market area is critical to the success of our business, and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. Our business may be adversely affected by an increasing prevalence of fraud and other financial crimes impacting the banking industry.. We are a community bank, and our reputation is one of the most valuable components of our business.  A key component of our business strategy is to rely on our reputation for customer service and knowledge of local markets to expand our presence by capturing new business opportunities from existing and prospective customers in our current market and contiguous areas.  As such, we strive to conduct our business in a manner that enhances our reputation. This is done, in part, by recruiting, hiring and retaining employees who share our core values of being an integral part of the communities we serve, delivering superior service to our customers and caring about our customers and associates.  We operate in many different financial service businesses and rely on the ability of our employees and systems to process a significant number of transactions. Operational risk is the risk of loss from operations, including fraud by employees or outside persons, employees’ execution of incorrect or unauthorized transactions, data processing and technology errors or hacking and breaches of internal control systems. If our reputation is negatively affected, by the actions of our employees, by our inability to conduct our operations in a manner that is appealing to current or prospective customers, or otherwise, our business and, therefore, our operating results may be materially adversely affected. Our loans to businesses and individuals and our deposit relationships and related transactions are subject to exposure to the risk of loss due to fraud and other financial crimes. Nationally, reported incidents of fraud and other financial crimes have increased. We have experienced an increase in losses due to apparent fraud and other financial crimes. Our policies and procedures designed to prevent such losses may not prevent all such losses. The Company continues to evaluate and implement new technologies; including, but not limited to, systems such as anti-skimming devices, new card technology, and monitoring systems that help to limit these types of instances.. Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability.. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market area, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors have national name recognition, greater resources and lending limits than we do and may offer certain services or prices for services that we do not or cannot provide. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market.. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of new legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a bank holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can.. 39. A tightening of credit markets and liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition.. Liquidity is essential to our business. A tightening of the credit markets and the inability to obtain adequate funding to replace deposits and fund continued loan growth may affect asset growth, our earnings capability and capital levels negatively. We rely on a number of different sources in order to meet our potential liquidity demands. Our primary sources of liquidity are increases in deposit accounts, including brokered deposits, as well as cash flows from loan payments and our securities portfolio. Borrowings, especially from the FHLB and repurchase agreements, also provide us with a source of funds to meet liquidity demands. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically, or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include adverse regulatory action against us or a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated. Our ability to borrow also could be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets, negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations or continued deterioration in credit markets.. Our core deposit premium could be deemed partially or fully impaired in the future, which would reduce our earnings and the values of that intangible asset.. At December 31, 2017, we had a core deposit premium of $71,000, due mainly to our 2008 acquisition of another financial institution. We also expect to record a core deposit premium in 2018 in connection with the merger with Universal. Under GAAP, we are required to periodically assess the value of this intangible asset based on a number of factors to determine if there is partial or full impairment. The factors taken into consideration include the market price of our stock, the net present value of our assets and liabilities and valuation information for similar financial institutions. This evaluation involves a substantial amount of judgment. If actual conditions underlying the factors differ from our assessment, the core deposit intangible could be subjected to faster amortization or partial or complete impairment, which would reduce the value of this asset and reduce our earnings, perhaps materially.. We currently hold a significant amount of bank-owned life insurance.. At December 31, 2017, we held $90.5 million of bank-owned life insurance or BOLI on key employees and executives, with a cash surrender value of $52.7 million. These policies are maintained to informally fund various benefit plans. The eventual repayment of the cash surrender value is subject to the ability of the various insurance companies to pay death benefits or to return the cash surrender value to us if needed for liquidity purposes. We continually monitor the financial strength of the various companies with whom we carry these policies. However, any one of these companies could experience a decline in financial strength, which could impair its ability to pay benefits or return our cash surrender value. If we need to liquidate these policies for liquidity purposes, we would be subject to taxation on the increase in cash surrender value and penalties for early termination, both of which would adversely impact earnings.. We may not be able to fully realize our deferred tax asset.. At December 31, 2017, we had a $7.5 million deferred income tax asset based on differences between the financial statement amounts and tax bases of assets and liabilities and reflecting mainly an allowance for loan loss timing difference and business tax and AMT carryover. The value of our deferred income tax benefit is reviewed regularly under various forecasts and assumptions, including anticipated levels of taxable net income, to determine the likelihood of realizing the benefit. If actual results or subsequent forecasts differ from our current judgments, to the extent that it becomes more likely than not that this benefit will not be fully realized, we would have to write down this asset, which would negatively impact results of operations and reduce our asset size.. 40. Transactions between the Company and its insurance subsidiary MutualFirst Risk Management, Inc. (the “Captive”), may be subject to certain IRS responsibilities and penalties.. The Captive is a Nevada-based, wholly-owned insurance subsidiary of the Company that provides property and casualty insurance coverage to the Company and the Bank as well as to 14 other third-party insurance captives for which insurance may not be available or economically feasible.  The Treasury Department of the United States and the IRS by way of Notice 2016-66 have stated that transactions believed similar in nature to transactions between the Company and the Captive may have the potential for tax avoidance or evasion and may be deemed by the IRS as an abusive tax structure subject to significant penalties, interest and possible criminal prosecution.. If our investment in the FHLB of Indianapolis becomes impaired, our earnings and stockholders’ equity could decrease.. At December 31, 2017, we owned $11.2 million in FHLB of Indianapolis stock. We are required to own this stock to be a member of and to obtain advances from our FHLB. This stock is not marketable and can only be redeemed by our FHLB. The most recent stock buyback initiated by FHLB was in 2015. Our FHLB’s financial condition is linked, in part, to the eleven other members of the FHLB System and to accounting rules and asset quality risks that could materially lower their capital, which would cause our FHLB stock to be deemed impaired, resulting in a decrease in our earnings and assets.. Changes in laws and regulations and the cost of regulatory compliance with new laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations and our income.. The Bank and the Company are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state regulators, which have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on a bank’s operations, reclassify assets, determine the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for loan losses and determine the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed. Because our business is highly regulated, the applicable laws and regulations are subject to frequent change. Any change in these laws, regulations and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, new regulations or legislation or additional deposit insurance premiums, could have a material impact on our operations. See “Item 1 - How We Are Regulated.”. In response to the last financial crisis, Congress took actions that are intended to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in financial institutions, and the FDIC has taken actions to increase insurance coverage on deposit accounts. The Dodd-Frank Act created the CFPB.. The CFPB has examination and primary enforcement authority with respect to depository institutions with $10 billion or more in assets, their service providers and certain non-depository entities such as debt collectors and consumer reporting agencies. In the case of banks, such as the Bank, with total assets of less than $10 billion, this examination and enforcement authority is held by the institution’s primary federal banking regulator (the FDIC, in the case of the Bank).. The CFPB has finalized a number of significant rules that could have a significant impact on our business and the financial services industry more generally. In particular, the CFPB has adopted rules impacting nearly every aspect of the lifecycle of a residential mortgage loan. The CFPB has also issued guidance which could significantly affect the automotive financing industry by subjecting indirect auto lenders, such as the Bank, to regulation as creditors under the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, which would make indirect auto lenders monitor and control certain credit policies and procedures undertaken by auto dealers.. In the last economic downturn, federal and state banking regulators were active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations and have issued many formal enforcement orders requiring capital ratios in excess of regulatory requirements. The FDIC and IDFI regulate the activities in which the Bank may engage primarily for the protection of depositors and not for the protection or benefit of stockholders. In addition, new laws and regulations may increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business and otherwise affect our operations. New laws and regulations may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, the fees we can charge and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Regulatory changes regarding card interchange fee income do not currently apply to us but could change in the future. Further, legislative proposals limiting our rights as a creditor could result in credit losses or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor.. 41. Increases in deposit insurance premiums and special FDIC assessments will negatively impact our earnings.. The Dodd-Frank Act established 1.35% of total insured deposits as the minimum reserve ratio for the FDIC Deposit Insurance Fund effective September 30, 2020. The FDIC adopted a plan under which it will meet this ratio by the statutory deadline and has reached a 1.28% as of September 30, 2017. The FDIC must offset the requirement that the minimum reserve ratio to reach 1.35% on institutions with assets less than $10 billion. To implement the offset requirement, FDIC regulations require that institutions with assets of $10 billion or more pay a surcharge during a temporary period and smaller institutions will receive credits whenever the reserve ratio reaches 1.38%. The FDIC has not announced how it will implement this offset. In addition to the statutory minimum ratio, the FDIC must set a designated reserve ratio or DRR, which may exceed the statutory minimum. The FDIC has set 2.0% as the DRR.. As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC has adopted final regulations under which insurance premiums are based on an institution's total assets minus its tangible equity instead of its deposits. Since the implementation of these changes, we have seen a decline in our deposit insurance premiums. The insurance costs were $724,000, $788,000 and $897,000 for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Our future deposit insurance premiums may increase if the FDIC determines that it will not meet the required or anticipated minimum reserve ratios discussed, which could have a negative impact on our earnings.. Our accounting policies and methods impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Application of these policies and methods may require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain.. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations.  Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results of operations.  In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in our reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported under a different alternative.  These accounting policies are critical to presenting our financial condition and results of operations. They may require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain.  Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions.. Our controls and procedures may be ineffective.. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures and corporate governance policies and procedures. As a result, we may incur increased costs to maintain and improve our controls and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls or procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. 42. System failure or breaches of our network security could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other liabilities.. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event, as well as from security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Computer break-ins, phishing and other disruptions could jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us and cause existing and potential customers to refrain from doing business with us. Although we, with the help of third-party service providers, intend to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures to prevent such damage, there can be no assurance that these security measures will be successful. Though the third-party vendors providing key components of our business infrastructure have been carefully chosen by us, we cannot control their actions, and their failures may impact the Bank’s ability to provide services to its customers and cause us to incur significant expense. In addition, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms we and our third-party service providers use to encrypt and protect customer transaction data. A failure of such security measures could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition and results of operations.. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or on terms acceptable to us.. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise more capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect or be required to raise additional capital. Should we be required by regulatory authorities to raise additional capital, we may seek to do so through the issuance of, among other things, our common stock or preferred stock. The issuance of additional shares of common stock or convertible securities to new stockholders would be dilutive to our current stockholders.. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, or if the terms of such a capital raise are not advantageous, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. There may be future sales of additional common stock or preferred stock or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. The market value of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by us of a large number of shares of common stock or preferred stock or similar securities in the market or the perception that such sales could occur.. Our board of directors is authorized to allow us to issue additional common stock, as well as classes or series of preferred stock, generally without any action on the part of the stockholders. In addition, the board has the power, generally without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any such classes or series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights and preferences over the common stock with respect to dividends or upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of our business and other terms. If we issue additional preferred stock in the future that has a preference over the common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, or if we issue additional preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of the common stock, the rights of holders of the common stock or the market value of the common stock could be adversely affected.. 43. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our stockholders.. Provisions in our charter and bylaws, the corporate law of the State of Maryland and federal regulations could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our stockholders, or otherwise adversely affect the market price of any class of our equity securities, including our common stock. These provisions include: a prohibition on voting shares of common stock beneficially owned in excess of 10% of total shares outstanding, supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations with any person who beneficially owns more than 10% of our outstanding common stock; the election of directors to staggered terms of three years; advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors and for proposing matters that stockholders may act on at stockholder meetings, a requirement that only directors may fill a vacancy in our board of directors, supermajority voting requirements to remove any of our directors and the other provisions of our charter. Our charter also authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock, and preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. In addition, pursuant to federal and state laws and regulations, as a general matter, no person or company, acting individually or in concert with others, may acquire more than 10% of our common stock without prior approval from our regulators.. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our board of directors.. The voting limitation provision in our charter could limit your voting rights as a holder of our common stock.. Our charter provides that any person or group who acquires beneficial ownership of our common stock in excess of 10% of the outstanding shares may not vote the excess shares. Accordingly, if you acquire beneficial ownership of more than 10% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, your voting rights with respect to the common stock will not be commensurate with your economic interest in the Company.. We rely on dividends from MutualBank for substantially all of the Company’s revenue.. MutualFirst’s primary source of revenue is dividends from the Bank. In certain instances, the IDFI must be notified of dividends made from the Bank to the Company and may choose to limit Bank dividends. If the Bank is unable to pay dividends, MutualFirst may not be able to service its debt, pay its other obligations or pay dividends on the Company’s common stock, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or the value of your investment in our common stock.. Our common stock trading volume may not provide adequate liquidity for investors.. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Global Market. However, the average daily trading volume in our common stock is less than that of many larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence of a sufficient number of willing buyers and sellers for our common stock at any given time. This presence is impacted by general economic and market conditions and investors’ views of our Company. Because our trading volume is limited, any significant sales of our shares could cause a decline in the price of our common stock.. 44. Our directors and executive officers have the ability to influence stockholder actions in a manner that may be adverse to the personal investment objectives of our stockholders.. As of December 31, 2017, our directors and executive officers as a group beneficially owned 1,605,356 shares, or 21.1%, of our common stock (including immediately exercisable options for 205,000 shares). In addition, our employee stock ownership and 401(k) plan controlled 5.5% of our common stock on that date. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, 58,003 shares were reserved under our current stock benefit plan for future awards for our directors, officers and employees. Due to this significant collective ownership of or control over our common stock, our directors and executive officers may be able to influence the outcome of director elections or block significant transactions, such as a merger or acquisition, or any other matter that might otherwise be favored by other stockholders and could prevent any stockholder action requiring a supermajority vote under our articles of incorporation."
