[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors.. Prices of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids fluctuate and lower prices could reduce proceeds to the trust and cash distributions to unitholders.. The reserves attributable to the underlying properties and the quarterly cash distributions of the trust are highly dependent upon the prices realized from the sale of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids. Prices of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids can fluctuate widely on a quarter-to-quarter basis in response to a variety of factors that are beyond the control of the trust and MV Partners. These factors include, among others:. <U+0095> political conditions or hostilities in oil and natural gas producing regions, including the Middle East, North Africa and South America;     <U+0095> weather conditions or force majeure events;    <U+0095> regional, domestic and foreign levels of supply of and demand for oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids;     <U+0095> U.S. and worldwide economic conditions;    <U+0095> the price and availability of alternative fuels;    <U+0095> the proximity to, and capacity of, refineries and gathering and transportation facilities;    <U+0095> governmental regulations and taxation; and    <U+0095> energy conservation and environmental measures.. Crude oil prices have been volatile during the last several years and in 2017, ranged from a high of $60.42 to a low of $42.53. The NYMEX crude oil spot prices per Bbl were $37.04, $53.72 and $60.42 as of December 31, 2015, 2016 and 2017, respectively. Neither MV Partners nor the trust can predict the timing or the duration of any economic cycle and, depending on the prices realized, the operating results of MV Partners and the financial condition of the trust could be materially and adversely affected.. The terms of the conveyance of the net profits interest prohibit MV Partners from entering into hedging arrangements for the benefit of the trust. As a result, the amounts of cash distributions by the trust may fluctuate significantly as a result of changes in commodity prices because there will be no hedge contracts in place to reduce the effects of any changes in commodity prices.. Lower prices of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids will reduce the amount of the net proceeds to which the trust is entitled and may ultimately reduce the amount of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids that is economic to produce from the underlying properties. As a result, the operator of any of the underlying properties could determine during periods of low commodity prices to shut in or curtail production from wells on the underlying properties. In addition, the operator of the underlying properties could determine during periods of low commodity prices to plug and abandon marginal wells that otherwise may have been allowed to continue to produce for a longer period under conditions of higher prices. Because the underlying properties are mature, with many of them being in production since the early 1900s, decreases in commodity prices could have a more significant effect on the economic viability of these properties compared to more recently discovered properties. The commodity price sensitivity of these mature wells is due to a culmination of factors that vary from well-to-well, including the additional costs associated with water handling and disposal, chemicals, surface equipment maintenance, downhole casing repairs and reservoir pressure maintenance activities that are necessary to maintain production. As a result, the volatility of commodity prices may cause the amount of future cash distributions to trust unitholders to fluctuate, and a substantial decline in the price of oil, natural. 28. Table of Contents. gas or natural gas liquids will reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to the trust unitholders.. Actual reserves and future production may be less than current estimates of proved reserves, which could reduce cash distributions by the trust and the value of the trust units.. The value of the trust units and the amount of future cash distributions to the trust unitholders will depend upon, among other things, the accuracy of the production and reserves estimated to be attributable to the underlying properties and the net profits interest. Estimating production and reserves is inherently uncertain. Ultimately, actual production, revenues and expenditures for the underlying properties could vary both positively and negatively from estimates and those variations could be material. Petroleum engineers consider many factors and make assumptions in estimating production and reserves. Those factors and assumptions include:. <U+0095> historical production from the area compared with production rates from other producing areas;    <U+0095> the assumed effect of governmental regulation; and    <U+0095> assumptions about future prices of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, production and development expenses, gathering and transportation costs, severance and excise taxes and capital expenditures.. Changes in these assumptions can materially increase or decrease production and reserve estimates.. The estimated reserves attributable to the net profits interest and the estimated future net revenues attributable to the net profits interest are based on estimates of reserve quantities and revenues for the underlying properties. See \"Item 1. Business - Description of the Underlying Properties - Reserves\" for a discussion of the method of allocating proved reserves to the underlying properties and the net profits interest. The quantities of reserves attributable to the underlying properties and the net profits interest may decrease in the future as a result of future decreases in the price of oil, natural gas or natural gas liquids.. Risks associated with the production, gathering, transportation and sale of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids could adversely affect cash distributions by the trust.. The revenues of the trust, the value of the trust units and the amount of cash distributions to the trust unitholders depend upon, among other things, the costs incurred by MV Partners to develop and exploit oil and natural gas reserves attributable to the underlying properties. Drilling, production or transportation accidents that temporarily or permanently halt the production and sale of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids at any of the underlying properties will reduce trust distributions by reducing the amount of net proceeds available for distribution. For example, accidents may occur that result in personal injuries, property damage, damage to productive formations or equipment and environmental damages. Any costs incurred by MV Partners in connection with any such accidents that are not insured against will have the effect of reducing the net proceeds available for distribution to the trust. In addition, curtailments or damage to pipelines used by MV Partners to transport oil, natural gas and natural gas liquid production to markets for sale could reduce the amount of net proceeds available for distribution. Any such curtailment or damage to the gathering systems used by MV Partners could also require MV Partners to find alternative means to transport the oil, natural gas and natural gas liquid production from the underlying properties, which alternative means could require MV Partners to incur additional costs that will have the effect of reducing net proceeds available for distribution by the trust.. 29. Table of Contents. Production of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids on the underlying properties could be materially and adversely affected by severe or unseasonable weather.. Production of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids on the underlying properties could be materially and adversely affected by severe weather. Repercussions of severe weather conditions may include:. <U+0095> evacuation of personnel and curtailment of operations;    <U+0095> weather-related damage to drilling rigs or other facilities, resulting in suspension of operations;    <U+0095> inability to deliver materials to worksites; and    <U+0095> weather-related damage to pipelines and other transportation facilities.. The trust and the public trust unitholders have no voting or managerial rights with respect to MV Partners, the operator of the underlying properties. As a result, public trust unitholders have no ability to influence the operation of the underlying properties.. Oil and natural gas properties are typically managed pursuant to an operating agreement among the working interest owners of oil and natural gas properties. The typical operating agreement contains procedures whereby the owners of the working interests in the property designate one of the interest owners to be the operator of the property. Under these arrangements, the operator is typically responsible for making all decisions relating to drilling activities, sale of production, compliance with regulatory requirements and other matters that affect the property.. MV Partners is currently designated as the operator of substantially all of the underlying properties. MV Partners has contracted with two of its affiliates, Vess Oil and Murfin Drilling, to operate these properties on its behalf. Neither the trustee nor the public trust unitholders has any contractual ability to influence or control the field operations of, sale of oil and natural gas from, or future development of, these properties. The public trust unitholders also have no voting rights with respect to MV Partners and, therefore, have no managerial, contractual or other ability to influence MV Partners' or its affiliates' activities as operator of the oil and natural gas properties to which substantially all of the underlying properties relate.. Shortages or increases in costs of oil field equipment, services and qualified personnel available to MV Partners could reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to the trust unitholders.. The demand for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with oil and natural gas prices, causing periodic shortages. Historically, there have been shortages of drilling rigs and other oilfield equipment as demand for rigs and equipment has increased along with the number of wells being drilled. These factors also cause significant increases in costs for equipment, services and personnel. Higher oil and natural gas prices generally stimulate demand and result in increased prices for drilling rigs, crews and associated supplies, equipment and services. As part of its development plan for the underlying properties, MV Partners expects to drill 27 development wells and conduct recompletion and workover operations on existing wells included in the underlying properties over the five years ending December 31, 2022. See \"Item 7. Trustee's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Planned Development and Workover Program\" for a description of MV Partners' development plans. Shortages of field personnel and equipment or price increases could significantly decrease the amount of cash available for distribution to the trust unitholders, or restrict the ability of MV Partners to drill the wells and conduct the operations which it currently has planned for the underlying properties.. 30. Table of Contents. MV Partners may transfer all or a portion of the underlying properties at any time, subject to specified limitations, and MV Partners may abandon individual wells or properties that it reasonably believes to be uneconomic. Under these circumstances, trust unitholders have no ability to prevent MV Partners from transferring the underlying properties to another operator, even if the trust unitholders do not believe that operator would operate the underlying properties in the same manner as MV Partners.. MV Partners may at any time transfer all or part of the underlying properties. Trust unitholders are not entitled to vote on any transfer of the underlying properties, and the trust will not receive any proceeds from any such transfer, except in the limited circumstances when the net profits interest is released in connection with such transfer, in which case the trust will receive an amount equal to the fair market value of the net profits interest released. See \"Business - Description of the Underlying Properties - Sale and Abandonment of Underlying Properties.\" Following any material sale or transfer of any of the underlying properties, such underlying properties will continue to be subject to the net profits interest of the trust, and the net proceeds attributable to the transferred property will be calculated as part of the computation of net proceeds described in this Form 10-K. MV Partners may delegate to the transferee responsibility for all of MV Partners' obligations relating to the net profits interest on the portion of the underlying properties transferred.. MV Partners or any transferee of the underlying properties may abandon any well or property if it reasonably believes that the well or property can no longer produce oil or natural gas in commercially economic quantities. This could result in termination of the net profits interest relating to the abandoned well or property. In making such decisions, MV Partners and any such transferee will be required under the applicable conveyance to act as a reasonably prudent operator in the State of Kansas under the same or similar circumstances would act if it were acting with respect to its own properties, disregarding the existence of the net profits interest as a burden on such property.. The reserves attributable to the underlying properties are depleting assets and production from those reserves will diminish over time. Furthermore, the trust is precluded from acquiring other oil and natural gas properties or net profits interests to replace the depleting assets and production.. The net proceeds payable to the trust from the net profits interest are derived from the sale of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids produced from the underlying properties. The reserves attributable to the underlying properties are depleting assets, which means that the reserves attributable to the underlying properties will decline over time. As a result, the quantity of oil and natural gas produced from the underlying properties is expected to decline over time. Based on the estimated production volumes in the reserve report, the oil and natural gas production from proved reserves attributable to the underlying properties is projected to decline at an average annual rate of approximately 8.6% over the next 20 years assuming no additional developmental drilling or other capital expenditures are made after 2022 on the underlying properties. The anticipated rate of decline is an estimate and actual decline rates may vary from those estimated. The net profits interest will terminate on the later to occur of (1) June 30, 2026, or (2) the time when 14.4 MMBoe have been produced from the underlying properties and sold (which amount is the equivalent of 11.5 MMBoe in respect of the trust's right to receive 80% of the net proceeds from the underlying properties pursuant to the net profits interest).. Future maintenance projects on the underlying properties beyond those which are currently estimated may affect the quantity of proved reserves that can be economically produced from the underlying properties. The timing and size of these projects will depend on, among other factors, the market prices of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids. In addition, because MV Partners has agreed to limit the amount of capital expenditures that may be taken into account in calculating net proceeds attributable to the net profits interest during a specified period preceding the termination of the net profits interest, MV Partners may choose to delay certain capital projects that may otherwise benefit the trust unitholders until the termination of the net profits interest. If operators of the wells to which the underlying properties relate do not implement required maintenance projects when warranted, the. 31. Table of Contents. future rate of production decline of proved reserves may be higher than the rate currently expected by MV Partners or estimated in the reserve report.. The trust agreement provides that the trust's business activities are limited to owning the net profits interest and any activity reasonably related to such ownership, including activities required or permitted by the terms of the conveyance related to the net profits interest. As a result, the trust is not permitted to acquire other oil and natural gas properties or net profits interests to replace the depleting assets and production attributable to the net profits interest.. Because the net proceeds payable to the trust are derived from the sale of depleting assets, the portion of the distributions to unitholders attributable to depletion may be considered a return of capital as opposed to a return on investment. Eventually, the net profits interest may cease to produce in commercial quantities and the trust may, therefore, cease to receive any distributions of net proceeds therefrom.. The amount of cash available for distribution by the trust will be reduced by the amount of any production and development costs, taxes, capital expenditures and post-production costs.. Production and development costs on the underlying properties are deducted in the calculation of the trust's share of net proceeds. In addition, production and property taxes, capital expenditures or post-production costs are deducted in the calculation of the trust's share of net proceeds. Accordingly, higher or lower production and development expenses, taxes, capital expenditures and post-production costs will directly decrease or increase the amount received by the trust in respect of its net profits interest. For a summary of these costs for the last three years, see \"Item 1. Business - Description of the Underlying Properties - Producing Acreage and Well Counts.\" Historical costs may not be indicative of future costs.. If development and production costs of the underlying properties exceed the proceeds of production from the underlying properties, the trust will not receive net proceeds from those properties until future proceeds from production exceed the total of the excess costs plus accrued interest during the deficit period. Development activities may not generate sufficient additional revenue to repay the costs.. A purchaser's failure to pay MV Partners for purchased production could have a significant adverse impact on MV Partners, which in turn could result in MV Partners not having sufficient net proceeds attributable to the net profits interest for MV Partners to distribute cash to the trust.. A purchaser's failure to pay for purchased production could have a significant adverse impact on MV Partners' business, which could in turn impact the trust. The recent tightening of credit in the financial markets may make it more difficult for purchasers to obtain financing and depending on the degree to which this occurs, there may be a material increase in the nonpayment and nonperformance by such purchasers.. The trustee may, under certain circumstances, sell the net profits interest and dissolve the trust prior to the expected termination of the trust. As a result, trust unitholders may not recover their investment.. The trustee must sell the net profits interest if the holders of a majority of the trust units approve the sale or vote to dissolve the trust. The trustee must also sell the net profits interest if the annual gross proceeds from the underlying properties attributable to the net profits interest are less than $1.0 million for each of any two consecutive years. The sale of the net profits interest will result in the dissolution of the trust. The net proceeds of any such sale will be distributed to the trust unitholders.. 32. Table of Contents. The disposal by the two members of MV Partners of their remaining trust units may reduce the market price of the trust units.. As of the date this Form 10-K, the two members of MV Partners, MV Energy and VAP-I, LLC (\"VAP-I\"), owned 25% of the outstanding trust units. The two members of MV Partners may use some or all of the remaining trust units they own for a number of corporate purposes, including:. <U+0095> selling them for cash; and    <U+0095> exchanging them for interests in oil and natural gas properties or securities of oil and natural gas companies.. If they sell additional trust units or exchange trust units in connection with acquisitions, then additional trust units will be available for sale in the market. The sale of additional trust units may reduce the market price of the trust units. MV Partners and the trust have entered into a registration rights agreement pursuant to which the trust has agreed to file a registration statement or a shelf registration statement to register the resale of the remaining trust units held by MV Partners and any transferee of the trust units upon request by such holders. See \"Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence - Registration Rights.\". The market price for the trust units may not reflect the value of the net profits interest held by the trust.. The trading price for publicly traded securities similar to the trust units tends to be tied to recent and expected levels of cash distributions. The amounts available for distribution by the trust will vary in response to numerous factors outside the control of the trust, including prevailing prices for sales of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquid production from the underlying properties. Consequently, the market price for the trust units may not necessarily be indicative of the value that the trust would realize if it sold the net profits interest to a third-party buyer. In addition, such market price may not necessarily reflect the fact that since the assets of the trust are depleting assets, a portion of each cash distribution paid on the trust units should be considered by investors as a return of capital, with the remainder being considered as a return on investment. As a result, distributions made to a trust unitholder over the life of these depleting assets may not equal or exceed the purchase price paid by the trust unitholder.. Conflicts of interest could arise between MV Partners and the trust unitholders.. The interests of MV Partners and the interests of the trust and the trust unitholders with respect to the underlying properties could at times differ. As a working interest owner in the underlying properties, MV Partners could have interests that conflict with the interests of the trust and the trust unitholders. For example:. <U+0095> MV Partners' interests may conflict with those of the trust and the trust unitholders in situations involving the development, maintenance, operation or abandonment of the underlying properties. MV Partners may make decisions with respect to development expenditures that adversely affect the underlying properties. These decisions include reducing development expenditures on these properties, which could cause oil and natural gas production to decline at a faster rate and thereby result in lower cash distributions by the trust in the future, or increasing development expenditures on the underlying properties during the final years of the term of the trust, which expenditures will benefit the unitholders only to the extent that they reduce the natural decline in oil and natural gas production during the term of the trust by an amount that more than offsets the cost of these development expenditures.     <U+0095> MV Partners may sell some or all of the underlying properties and such sale may not be in the best interests of the trust unitholders. In the event MV Partners sells all or any portion of the underlying properties, the purchaser of such underlying properties will acquire such underlying. 33. Table of Contents. properties subject to the net profits interest relating thereto and, in connection therewith, such purchaser will be subject to the same standards of conduct with respect to development, operation and abandonment of such underlying properties as are imposed on MV Partners. MV Partners also has the right, subject to significant limitations as described herein, to cause the trust to release all or a portion of the net profits interest in connection with a sale of a portion of the underlying properties to which such net profits interest relates. In such an event, the trust is entitled to receive its proportionate share of the proceeds from the sale attributable to the net profits interest released. See \"Business - Description of the Underlying Properties - Sale and Abandonment of Underlying Properties.\". In addition, affiliates of MV Partners may engage in activities whereby such affiliates could have interests that conflict with the interests of MV Partners, which could, depending on the circumstances, negatively impact MV Partners' business.. In making decisions with respect to the development, operation, abandonment or sale of the underlying properties, MV Partners and any successor operator will be required under the applicable conveyance to act as a reasonably prudent operator in the State of Kansas under the same or similar circumstances would act if it were acting with respect to its own properties, disregarding the existence of the net profits interest. Except for specified matters that require approval of the trust unitholders, the documents governing the trust do not provide a mechanism for resolving these conflicting interests.. The trust is managed by a trustee who cannot be replaced except at a special meeting of trust unitholders.. The business and affairs of the trust are managed by the trustee. The voting rights of a trust unitholder are more limited than those of stockholders of most public corporations. For example, there is no requirement for annual meetings of trust unitholders or for an annual or other periodic re-election of the trustee. The trust agreement provides that the trustee may only be removed and replaced by the holders of a majority of the outstanding trust units at a special meeting of trust unitholders called by either the trustee or the holders of not less than 10% of the outstanding trust units. MV Energy and VAP-I collectively own 25% of the outstanding trust units. As a result, it will be difficult to remove or replace the trustee, particularly without the approval of the members of MV Partners.. Trust unitholders have limited ability to enforce provisions of the net profits interest.. The trust agreement permits the trustee to sue MV Partners or any other future owner of the underlying properties on behalf of the trust to enforce the terms of the conveyance creating the net profits interest. If the trustee does not take appropriate action to enforce provisions of the conveyance, recourse of the trust unitholders would be limited to bringing a lawsuit against the trustee to compel the trustee to take specified actions. The trust agreement expressly limits the trust unitholders' ability to directly sue MV Partners or any other third party other than the trustee. As a result, the unitholders will not be able to sue MV Partners or any future owner of the underlying properties to enforce these rights.. Courts outside of Delaware may not recognize the limited liability of the trust unitholders provided under Delaware law.. Under the Delaware Statutory Trust Act, trust unitholders are entitled to the same limitation of personal liability extended to stockholders of private corporations under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. Courts in jurisdictions outside of Delaware, however, may not give effect to such limitation.. 34. Table of Contents. The operations of the underlying properties are subject to environmental laws and regulations and operational safety matters that may result in significant costs and liabilities, which could reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to trust unitholders.. Significant costs and liabilities can be incurred as a result of environmental and safety requirements applicable to the oil and natural gas exploration, development and production activities of the underlying properties. These costs and liabilities could arise under a wide range of federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations, including regulations and enforcement policies, which have tended to become increasingly strict over time. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, and to a lesser extent, issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations. In addition, claims for damages to persons or property may result from environmental and other impacts of the operations of the underlying properties.. Strict, joint and several liability may be imposed under certain environmental laws, which could cause liability for the conduct of others or for the consequences of one's own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. New laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be more stringent and impose unforeseen liabilities or significantly increase compliance costs. If it were not possible to recover the resulting costs through insurance or increased revenues, this could have a material adverse effect on the cash distributions to the trust unitholders. Please read \"Item 1. Business - Description of the Underlying Properties - Regulation - Environmental Matters and Regulation\" for more information.. Governmental authorities may enact climate change regulations that could increase MV Partners' costs to operate and, therefore, adversely affect distributions to the trust unitholders.. Congress has considered recent proposed legislation directed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions and President Obama has indicated his support of legislation aimed at reducing greenhouse gases. The EPA has proposed rules to regulate greenhouse gases and regional initiatives have formed to control greenhouse gases. Additionally, the states in which MV Partners operates may implement air pollution control regulations that are more stringent than existing and proposed federal regulations, in particular the regulation of emissions of greenhouse gases. The adoption of laws and regulations to implement controls of greenhouse gases, including the imposition of fees or taxes, could adversely affect MV Partners' operations and, therefore, distributions to the trust unitholders.. Regulation of greenhouse gases and climate change could adversely affect trust distributions.. Some scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to the warming of the Earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. In response to such studies, the issue of climate change and the effect of greenhouse gas emissions, in particular emissions from fossil fuels, is attracting increasing attention worldwide. Legislative and regulatory measures to address concerns that emissions of greenhouse gases are contributing to climate change are in various phases of discussions or implementation at the international, national, regional and state levels.. The EPA has determined that greenhouse gases from certain sources \"endanger\" public health or welfare. As a result, the EPA has begun to promulgate certain regulations and interpretations that will require new and modified stationary sources of greenhouse gases above certain thresholds to report, limit or control such emissions and began to issue rules which are intended to limit greenhouse gas emissions from the oil and gas sector beginning in 2012. More recently, the EPA issued rules intended to limit methane emissions from oil and gas production.. Existing or future laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements related to greenhouse gases and climate change, including incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources,. 35. Table of Contents. could have a negative impact on the operations of the underlying properties and the trust if such laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements reduce the worldwide demand for oil and natural gas or otherwise result in reduced economic activity generally. In addition, such laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, which may have a negative impact on the operations of the underlying properties and the trust. In addition to potential impacts on the operations of the underlying properties and the trust directly or indirectly resulting from climate-change legislation or regulations, the operations of the underlying properties and the trust also could be negatively affected by climate-change related physical changes or changes in weather patterns.. The operations of the underlying properties are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cash distributions to the trust unitholders.. The exploration, development and production operations of the underlying properties are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. In order to conduct its operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, MV Partners must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities. MV Partners may incur substantial costs and experience delays in order to maintain compliance with these existing laws and regulations, and the net profits interest will bear its share of these costs. In addition, the costs of compliance may increase or the operations of the underlying properties may be otherwise adversely affected if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to such operations. Such costs could have a material adverse effect on the cash distributions to the trust unitholders.. Laws and regulations governing exploration and production may also affect production levels. MV Partners is required to comply with federal and state laws and regulations governing conservation matters, including: provisions related to the unitization or pooling of oil and natural gas properties; the establishment of maximum rates of production from wells; the spacing of wells; the plugging and abandonment of wells; and the removal of related production equipment. These and other laws and regulations can limit the amount of oil and natural gas MV Partners can produce from its wells, limit the number of wells it can drill, or limit the locations at which it can conduct drilling operations, which in turn could negatively impact trust distributions, estimated and actual future net revenues to the trust and estimates of reserves attributable to the trust's interests.. New laws or regulations, or changes to existing laws or regulations, may unfavorably impact MV Partners, could result in increased operating costs or have a material adverse effect on MV Partners' financial condition and results of operations and reduce the amount of cash received by the trust. For example, Congress is currently considering legislation that, if adopted in its proposed form, would subject companies involved in oil and natural gas exploration and production activities to, among other items, additional regulation of and restrictions on hydraulic fracturing of wells, the elimination of certain U.S. federal tax incentives and deductions available to oil and natural gas exploration and production activities, and the prohibition or additional regulation of private energy commodity derivative and hedging activities. These and other potential regulations could increase the operating costs of the underlying properties, reduce MV Partners' liquidity, delay MV Partners' operations or otherwise alter the way MV Partners conducts its business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the net profits interest and the trust's cash flows.. 36. Table of Contents. The trust has not requested a ruling from the IRS regarding the tax treatment of ownership of the trust units or the tax treatment of the net profits interest. If the IRS were to determine (and be sustained in that determination) that the trust is not a grantor trust for federal income tax purposes, or that the net profits interest is not a debt instrument for federal income tax purposes, the trust unitholders may receive different and less advantageous tax treatment than that described in this Form 10-K.. Tax counsel to MV Partners advised the trust at the time of formation that, for federal income tax purposes, in its opinion MV Partners will be treated as a grantor trust and not as an unincorporated business entity. Tax counsel to MV Partners also advised the trust at the time of formation that, for federal income tax purposes, based upon representations made by MV Partners regarding the expected economic life of the underlying properties and the expected duration of the net profits interest, in its opinion the net profits interest should be treated as a \"production payment\" under Section 636 of the Code or otherwise as a debt instrument.. If the net profits interest were not treated as a debt instrument, or if the trust were not treated as a grantor trust, for federal income tax purposes, the tax treatment of tax items in respect of an investment in trust units may be affected. The effects of this different tax treatment may be less advantageous to trust unitholders.. Neither MV Partners nor the trustee has requested a ruling from the IRS regarding these tax questions, and neither MV Partners nor the trust can assure the trust unitholders that such a ruling would be granted if requested or that the IRS will not challenge these positions on audit. See \"Item 1. Business - Federal Income Tax Matters\" for more information about the various matters described under this risk factor.. The trust's net profits interest may be characterized as an executory contract in bankruptcy, which could be rejected in bankruptcy, thus relieving MV Partners from its obligations to make payments to the trust with respect to the net profits interest.. MV Partners has recorded the conveyance of the net profits interest in Kansas in the real property records in each Kansas county where the properties are located. MV Partners has informed the trustee that MV Partners believes that the delivery and recording of the conveyance constitute fully conveyed and vested property interests in the trust under Kansas law. If in a bankruptcy proceeding in which MV Partners becomes involved as a debtor a determination were made that the conveyance constitutes an executory contract and the net profits interest is not a fully conveyed property interest under the laws of Kansas, and if such contract were not to be assumed in a bankruptcy proceeding involving MV Partners, the trust would be treated as an unsecured creditor of MV Partners with respect to such net profits interest in the pending bankruptcy proceeding.. Oil and gas leases are real property interests under Colorado law. The net profits interest is a non-operating, non-possessory interest carved out of the oil and gas leasehold estate. MV Partners has informed the trustee that MV Partners believes that it is possible that the net profits interest for the underlying properties located in Colorado may not be treated as a real property interest under the laws of Colorado. MV Partners has recorded the conveyance of the net profits interest in the real property records of Colorado in accordance with local recording acts. MV Partners has informed the trustee that MV Partners believes that, if, during the term of the trust, MV Partners becomes involved as a debtor in a bankruptcy proceeding, the net profits interest relating to the underlying properties located in Colorado should be treated as a fully conveyed personal property interest under the laws of Colorado. In such a proceeding, however, a determination could be made that the conveyance constitutes an executory contract and the net profits interest is not a fully conveyed personal property interest under the laws of Colorado, and if such contract were not to be assumed in a bankruptcy proceeding involving MV Partners, the trust would be treated as an unsecured creditor of MV Partners with respect to such net profits interest in the pending bankruptcy proceeding.. 37. Table of Contents. If the financial position of MV Partners degrades in the future, MV Partners may not be able to satisfy its obligations to the trust.. MV Partners is a privately held limited liability company engaged in the exploration, development, production, gathering and aggregation and sale of oil and natural gas, primarily in the Mid-Continent region in the United States, and it is responsible for operating substantially all of the underlying properties. The operating agreement of MV Partners provides that Vess Oil and Murfin Drilling will operate the underlying properties on behalf of MV Partners for which MV Partners is designated as the operator. The conveyance provides that MV Partners is obligated to market, or cause to be marketed, the production related to the underlying properties.. The ability of MV Partners to perform its obligations related to the operation of the underlying properties will depend on MV Partners' future financial condition and economic performance, which in turn will depend upon the supply and demand for oil and natural gas, prevailing economic conditions, collections of payments due from third parties, and upon financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond the control of MV Partners."
