[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. Termination of or default under long-term mining contracts could materially reduce the Company's profitability.. Substantially all of NACoal's profits are derived from long-term mining contracts. The contracts for certain of NACoal's unconsolidated mines permit or obligate the customer under some conditions to acquire the assets or stock of the NACoal subsidiary for an amount roughly equal to book value. If any of NACoal's long-term mining contracts were terminated or if any of its customers were to default under material contracts, profitability could be materially reduced to the extent that NACoal is unable to find alternative customers at the same level of profitability.. The loss of, or significant reduction in, purchases by our largest coal customers or the failure of any of our customers to buy and pay for coal they have committed to purchase could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, NACoal derived over 70% of consolidated revenue from two customers and over 50% of earnings of unconsolidated mines from two customers. There are inherent risks whenever a significant percentage of total revenues are concentrated with a limited number of customers. Revenues from NACoal's largest customers may fluctuate from time to time based on numerous factors, including market conditions, which may be outside of NACoal's control. If any of NACoal's largest customers experience declining revenues due to market, economic or competitive conditions, it could have an adverse effect on the Company's margins, profitability, cash flows and financial position. In addition, if any customers were to significantly reduce their purchases of coal from us, including by failing to buy and pay for coal they have committed to purchase in sales contracts, NACoal's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. During 2017, NACoal's unconsolidated Liberty Mine was placed in cessation due to its customer's decision to suspend operations of its coal gasifier and, in February 2018, Liberty Mine was instructed to permanently cease all mining and delivery of lignite and to commence mine reclamation due to its customer's decision not to operate its gasifier. Also during 2017, MLMC's customer experienced a significant number of plant outage days, materially reducing MLMC's profitability and NACoal's consolidated results.. NACoal's unconsolidated mining operations are subject to risks created by changes in customer demand, inflationary adjustments and tax changes.. The contracts with the unconsolidated mining operations' customers are based on a \"management fee\" approach, whereby compensation includes reimbursement of all operating costs, plus a fee based on the amount of coal or limerock delivered. The fees earned adjust over time in line with various indices which reflect general U.S. inflation rates.  During the production stage, the unconsolidated mines' customers pay the Company its agreed upon fee only for the coal or limerock delivered to them for consumption or use. As a result, reduced coal or limerock usage by customers for any reason, including, but not limited to, fluctuations in demand due to unanticipated weather conditions, scheduled and unscheduled outages at NACoal's customers' facilities, economic conditions or governmental regulations or comparable policies which may promote dispatch of power generated by renewables, such as wind or solar, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. Because of the contractual price formulas for the management fees at these unconsolidated mining operations, the profitability of these operations is also subject to fluctuations in inflationary adjustments (or lack thereof) that can impact the agreed upon management fees and taxes applicable to NACoal's income on those fees. In addition, any unfavorable changes in tax laws for mining companies would have a material adverse effect on the Company. These factors could materially reduce NACoal's profitability.. NACoal's consolidated mining operations are subject to risks associated with  its capital investment, operating and equipment costs, growing use of alternative generation that competes with coal fired generation, changes in customer demand, inflationary adjustments and tax changes.. The profitability of the consolidated mining operations is subject to the risk of loss of investment in these operations, changes in demand from customers, increases in the cost of mining and growing competition from alternative generation that competes with coal-fired generation. At MLMC, the costs of mining operations are not reimbursed by MLMC's customer. As such, increased costs at MLMC or decreased revenues could materially reduce NACoal's profitability.  Any long-term reduction in customer demand at MLMC would adversely affect NACoal's operating results and liquidity and could result in significant impairments. In addition, MLMC sells lignite at contractually agreed upon coal prices which are subject to changes in the level of established indices over time.  The price of diesel fuel is heavily-weighted among these indices.  As such, a substantial decline in diesel prices could materially reduce NACoal's profitability, as the decline in revenue will only be partially offset by the effect of lower diesel prices on production costs.. NACoal's consolidated operations are subject to changes in customer demand for any reason, including, but not limited to, fluctuations in demand due to unanticipated weather conditions, fluctuations in the construction industry that impact demand. 17. Table of Contents. for aggregates, the emergence of unidentified adverse mining conditions, availability of alternative energy sources such as wind power or natural gas at reduced prices making coal-fueled generation less competitive with wind power or natural gas-fueled generation, regulations or comparable policies which may promote dispatch of power generated by renewables such as wind or solar ahead of coal, planned and unplanned outages at NACoal's customers' facilities, economic conditions, including economic conditions that adversely affect demand for coal and limerock, governmental regulations, inflationary adjustments and tax risks. In addition, any unfavorable changes in tax laws for mining companies would have a material adverse effect on NACoal's profitability.. Mining operations are vulnerable to weather and other conditions that are beyond NACoal's control.. Many conditions beyond NACoal's control can decrease the delivery, and therefore the use, of coal to NACoal's customers. These conditions include weather, adverse mining conditions, availability of alternative fuels such as wind power and natural gas at reduced prices making coal-fueled generation less competitive, unexpected maintenance problems and shortages of replacement parts, which could significantly reduce the Company's profitability.. Government regulations could impose costly requirements on NACoal and its customers.. The coal mining industry and the electric generation industry are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local authorities on matters concerning the health and safety of employees, land use, permit and licensing requirements, air and water quality standards, plant and wildlife protection, reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining, the discharge of GHGs and other materials into the environment, surface subsidence from underground mining and the effects that mining has on groundwater quality and availability. Legislation mandating certain benefits for current and retired coal miners also affects the industry. Mining operations require numerous governmental permits and approvals. NACoal is required to prepare and present to federal, state or local authorities data pertaining to the impact the production and combustion of coal may have upon the environment. The public, including non-governmental organizations, opposition groups and individuals, have statutory rights to comment upon and submit objections to requested permits and approvals and to legally challenge certain permits subsequent to their issuance. Compliance with these requirements is costly and time-consuming and may delay commencement or continuation of development or production.  New legislation and/or regulations and orders may materially adversely affect NACoal's mining operations or its cost structure, or its customers. All of these factors could significantly reduce the Company's profitability.  See \"Item 1. Business  -  North American Coal  -  Government Regulation\" on page 12 in this Form 10-K for further discussion.. NACoal is subject to burdensome federal and state mining regulations.. Federal and state statutes require NACoal to restore mine property in accordance with specified standards and an approved reclamation plan, and require that NACoal obtain and periodically renew permits for mining operations. Regulations require NACoal to incur the cost of reclaiming current mine disturbance at operations where NACoal holds the mining permit. Although the Company believes that appropriate accruals have been recorded for all expected reclamation and other costs associated with closed mines, future profitability would be adversely affected if accruals for these costs are later determined to be insufficient or if changed conditions, including adverse judicial proceedings or revised assumptions, require a change in these reserves.. The Clean Air Act and Clean Power Plan could reduce the demand for coal.. The process of burning coal can cause many compounds and impurities in the coal to be released into the air, including carbon dioxide, sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, mercury, particulates and other matter. The CAA, CPP and the corresponding state laws that extensively regulate the emissions of materials into the air affect coal mining operations both directly and indirectly. Direct impacts on coal mining operations occur through CAA permitting requirements and/or CPP emission control requirements relating to air contaminants, especially particulate matter. Indirect impacts on coal mining operations occur through regulation of the air emissions of carbon dioxide, sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, mercury, particulate matter and other compounds emitted by coal-fired power plants. The EPA has promulgated or proposed regulations that impose tighter emission restrictions on a number of these compounds, some of which are currently subject to litigation. The general effect of tighter restrictions is to reduce demand for coal. A reduction in coal's share of the capacity for power generation could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. See \"Item 1. Business  -   North American Coal  -  Government Regulation\" on page 12 in this Form 10-K for further discussion.. NACoal is subject to the high costs and risks involved in the development of new mining projects.. From time to time, NACoal seeks to develop new mining projects. The costs and risks associated with such projects can be substantial. In addition, any changes in tax laws that eliminate the expensing of exploration and development costs will increase the after-tax cost of building a mine and make the cost of coal less competitive with other power-generation fuels.. 18. Table of Contents. Estimates of NACoal's recoverable coal reserves involve uncertainties, and inaccuracies in these estimates could result in lower than expected revenues, higher than expected costs, decreased profitability and asset impairments.. NACoal estimates recoverable coal reserves based on engineering and geological data assembled and analyzed by internal and, less frequently, external engineers and geologists. NACoal's estimates as to the quantity and quality of the coal in its reserves are updated annually to reflect production of coal from the reserves and new drilling, engineering or other data. These estimates depend upon a variety of factors and assumptions, many of which involve uncertainties and factors beyond NACoal's control, such as geological and mining conditions that may not be fully identified by available exploration data or that may differ from experience in current operations.. For these reasons, estimates of the recoverable quantities and qualities attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of net cash flows expected from particular reserves may vary substantially. In addition, coal tonnage recovered from identified reserve areas or properties and revenues and expenditures with respect to NACoal's reserves may vary materially from estimates. Accordingly, NACoal's estimates may vary from the actual reserves. Any inaccuracy in the reserve estimates could result in lower than expected revenues, higher than expected costs, decreased profitability and asset impairments.. The Company is dependent on key personnel and the loss of these key personnel could significantly reduce its profitability.. The Company is highly dependent on the skills, experience and services of its key personnel and the loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. Employment and retention of qualified personnel is important to the successful conduct of the Company's business. Therefore, the Company's success also depends upon its ability to recruit, hire, train and retain skilled and experienced management personnel. The Company's inability to hire and retain personnel with the requisite skills could impair its ability to manage and operate its business effectively and could significantly reduce its profitability.. The amount and frequency of dividend payments made on NACCO's common stock could change.. The Board of Directors has the power to determine the amount and frequency of the payment of dividends. Decisions regarding whether or not to pay dividends and the amount of any dividends are based on earnings, capital and future expense requirements, financial conditions, contractual limitations and other factors the Board of Directors may consider. Accordingly, holders of NACCO's common stock should not rely on past payments of dividends in a particular amount as an indication of the amount of dividends that will be paid in the future.. The Company's business could suffer if NACCO's information technology systems are disrupted, cease to operate effectively or if the Company experiences a security breach.. The Company relies heavily on information technology systems to operate websites; record and process transactions; respond to customer inquiries; purchase supplies and deliver inventory on a timely basis; and maintain cost-efficient operations. Given the significant number of transactions that are completed annually, it is vital to maintain constant operation of computer hardware and software systems and maintain cyber security. Despite the Company's cyber security efforts, the Company's information technology systems may be vulnerable from time to time to damage or interruption from computer viruses, power outages, third-party intrusions and other technical malfunctions. If the Company's systems are damaged, or fail to function properly, NACCO may have to make monetary investments to repair or replace the systems and could endure delays in operations.. In addition, the Company regularly evaluates information technology systems and requirements and from time to time implements modifications and/or upgrades to the information technology systems that support its businesses. Modifications include replacing existing systems with successor systems, making changes to existing systems and acquiring new systems with new functionality. There are inherent risks associated with replacing and modifying these systems, including inaccurate system information, system disruptions and user acceptance and understanding. The Company believes it is taking appropriate action to mitigate the risks through disciplined adherence to program management, testing systems and user involvement, improving the resiliency of systems, as well as securing appropriate commercial contracts with third-party vendors but there can be no assurance that the Company's actions will be successful or sufficient.. Any material disruption or slowdown of the Company's systems, including a disruption or slowdown caused by a security breach or the Company's failure to successfully upgrade its systems, could cause information, including data related to customers, to be lost. Such a loss could reduce demand and cause the Company's sales and/or profitability to decline.. Through the Company's business operations, the Company collects and stores confidential information from its customers and vendors and personal information and other confidential information from its employees. For example, the Company handles, collects and stores information in connection with its customers' businesses and its customers' communications with the Company.  Although the Company has taken steps designed to safeguard such information, there can be no assurance that such information. 19. Table of Contents. will be protected against unauthorized access, use or disclosure.  Unauthorized parties may penetrate the Company's or its vendors' network security and, if successful, misappropriate such information.  Additionally, methods to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information change frequently and may be difficult to detect, which can impact the Company's ability to respond appropriately.  The Company could be subject to liability for failure to comply with privacy and information security laws, for failing to protect personal information or for failing to respond appropriately.  Loss, unauthorized access to, or misuse of confidential or personal information could disrupt the Company's operations, damage the Company's reputation, and expose the Company to claims from customers, financial institutions, regulators, employees and other persons, any of which could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company may be subject to risk relating to increasing cash requirements of certain employee benefits plans, which may affect its financial position.. Although as of December 31, 2017, the Company's consolidated defined benefit pension plans are frozen and no longer provide for the accrual of future benefits, the expenses recorded for, and cash contributions required to be made to its defined benefit pension plans are dependent on changes in market interest rates and the value of plan assets, which are dependent on actual investment returns.  Significant changes in market interest rates, decreases in the value of plan assets or investment losses on plan assets may require the Company to increase the cash contributed to defined benefit pension plans which may affect its financial position.. The Company may become subject to claims under foreign laws and regulations, which may be expensive, time consuming and distracting.. Because Company employees travel for business outside of the United States, the Company is subject to the laws and the court systems of many jurisdictions. The Company may become subject to claims outside the U.S. for violations or alleged violations of laws with respect to past or future foreign operations of NACoal. In addition, these laws may be changed or new laws may be enacted in the future. International litigation is often expensive, time consuming and distracting. As a result, any of these risks could significantly reduce the Company's profitability and its ability to operate its businesses effectively.. Certain members of the Company's extended founding family own a substantial amount of its Class A and Class B common stock and, if they were to act in concert, could control the outcome of director elections and other stockholder votes on significant corporate actions.. The Company has two classes of common stock: Class A common stock and Class B common stock. Holders of Class A common stock are entitled to cast one vote per share and, as of December 31, 2017, accounted for approximately 25 percent of the voting power of the Company. Holders of Class B common stock are entitled to cast ten votes per share and, as of December 31, 2017, accounted for the remaining voting power of the Company. As of December 31, 2017, certain members of the Company's extended founding family held approximately 34 percent of the Company's outstanding Class A common stock and approximately 98 percent of the Company's outstanding Class B common stock. On the basis of this common stock ownership, certain members of the Company's extended founding family could have exercised 82 percent of the Company's total voting power. Although there is no voting agreement among such extended family members, in writing or otherwise, if they were to act in concert, they could control the outcome of director elections and other stockholder votes on significant corporate actions, such as certain amendments to the Company's certificate of incorporation and sales of the Company or substantially all of its assets. Because certain members of the Company's extended founding family could prevent other stockholders from exercising significant influence over significant corporate actions, the Company may be a less attractive takeover target, which could adversely affect the market price of its common stock."
