[1] "ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this report, including the section titled \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before investing in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. We derive most of our revenues from Panorama, and if our efforts to further increase the use and adoption of Panorama or to develop new products and services in the future do not succeed, our business will be harmed.. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, 63%, 66% and 73%, respectively, of our revenues were derived from sales of our NIPT, Panorama. Although we are growing our revenues from other products, in particular our Horizon carrier screen, we expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our revenues from the sales of Panorama. Continued and additional market demand for Panorama, and reimbursement for the average risk population and for microdeletions, are key elements to our future success. The market demand for NIPTs has grown in recent periods and is evolving, but this market trend may not continue or, even if it does continue, physicians may not recommend and order Panorama, and our laboratory distribution partners and licensees may not actively or effectively market Panorama.. Our ability to increase sales and establish significant levels of adoption and reimbursement for Panorama is uncertain, and it may be challenging for us to achieve profitability for many reasons, including, among others:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe NIPT market may not grow as we expect, and NIPTs may not gain acceptance for use in the average-risk pregnancy population or as a screen for microdeletions, which would limit the market for Panorama;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tif we are unable to demonstrate that Panorama is superior to competing NIPTs, laboratories, clinics, clinicians, physicians, payers and patients may not adopt use of Panorama on a broad basis, and may not be willing to pay the price premium over other NIPTs that we have, to date, been able to achieve;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthird-party payers, such as commercial insurance companies and government insurance programs, may decide not to reimburse for Panorama, may not reimburse for uses of Panorama for the average-risk pregnancy population or for the screening of microdeletions, or may set the amounts of such reimbursements at prices that do not allow us to cover our expenses; in fact, many third-party payers currently have negative coverage determinations or otherwise do not reimburse for average-risk patient populations or for microdeletions screening and we expect low reimbursement rates for microdeletions screening to continue, at least in the near term; also, most state Medicaid programs currently either reimburse at low rates or do not reimburse for our tests;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthird-party payers are increasingly requiring that prior authorization be obtained prior to conducting genetic testing as a condition to reimbursing for it, which has reduced and/or delayed the reimbursement amounts we receive for Panorama or our other tests, which impacted our results of operations in the fourth quarter of 2017, when these requirements began to take effect;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe results of our clinical trials and any additional clinical and economic utility data that we may develop, present and publish or that comes from the commercial use of Panorama may be inconsistent with prior data, may raise questions about the performance of Panorama, or may fail to convince laboratories, clinics, clinicians, physicians, payers or patients of the value of Panorama; furthermore, we may be unable to achieve stable reimbursement for microdeletions unless and until sufficient validation data on the sensitivity and specificity of our test for these conditions becomes available, which may take longer than we anticipate;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may experience supply constraints, including those due to the failure of our key suppliers to provide required sequencers and reagents or disputes with our key suppliers, including those with respect to the. 33. Table of Contents. required sequencers and reagents from our supplier, Illumina, Inc., or Illumina, which is also one of our main NIPT competitors through its subsidiary, Verinata Health Inc., or Verinata;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may experience increased cost of product, licensing and other revenues as a percentage of total revenues, as was the case for each of the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, or other U.S. or foreign regulatory or legislative bodies may adopt new regulations or policies, or take other actions that impose significant restrictions on our ability to market and sell Panorama or our other tests, including requiring FDA clearance or approval for the sale of Panorama or of the sequencers, reagents, kits and other consumable products that we purchase from third parties in order to perform our testing;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may fail to compete successfully in the NIPT market; our laboratory partners may choose to develop their own tests that are competitive with ours or offer tests provided by our competitors due to pricing or other reasons as has happened in the past, or otherwise fail to effectively market Panorama; and competitors may develop and commercialize more effective and/or less expensive tests that deliver comparable results as our tests;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may fail to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property relating to Panorama, leading to increased competition; or other parties may claim that the practice of our technology by us or our licensees and collaborators infringes such other party's  intellectual property rights; if we are required to pay license fees in order to license third party intellectual property rights due to actual or alleged infringement based on our running Panorama, we may experience increased costs in running Panorama, and we may be unable to pass such costs on to our customers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tin the event that it is in our commercial or financial interest or we are forced to transition sequencing platforms for Panorama,  we may be unable to do so in a commercially sustainable way and that could survive claims of infringement of intellectual property rights of Illumina and other competitors, in a timely manner or at all; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may not be successful in commercializing our cloud-based distribution model.. If the market for Panorama or our market share fail to grow or grow more slowly than expected, our business, operating results and financial condition will be harmed.. We have incurred losses since our inception and we anticipate that we will continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future, which could harm our future business prospects.. We have incurred net losses each year since our inception in 2003. To date, we have financed our operations primarily through private placements of preferred stock, convertible debt and other debt instruments, and our initial public offering. Our net loss for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 was $136.3 million, $95.8 million and $70.3 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $482.2 million. Such losses may continue to increase in the future as we continue to devote a substantial portion of our resources to efforts to increase adoption of, and reimbursement for, Panorama and our other products, improve these products, and research and develop new products.. In addition, the rate of growth in our revenues has generally been negative, low or flat in recent periods, and this trend may continue in future periods. In particular, a significant element of our business strategy has been to maintain increased in-network coverage with third-party payers; however, the negotiated fees under our contracts with third-party payers are typically lower than the list price of our tests, and in some cases the third-party payers that we contract with have negative coverage determinations for some of our offerings, in particular Panorama for the average-risk pregnancy population and for microdeletions screening. Therefore, going in-network with third-party payers has had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on our revenues if we are unable to continue to increase adoption of, and obtain favorable coverage determinations for reimbursement for, our products. Furthermore, a new CPT code for microdeletions went into effect beginning January 1, 2017. We have experienced low average reimbursement rates thus far for microdeletions testing under this new code, and we expect that this new code will cause, at least in the near term, our microdeletions reimbursement to remain low, either due to reduced reimbursement, or third-party payers declining to. 34. Table of Contents. reimburse, under the new code, which has had and will likely continue to have an adverse effect on our revenues. In addition, a new CPT code for expanded carrier screening has been approved and is expected to take effect beginning January 1, 2019, and may have a similar effect on our reimbursement rates for our Horizon carrier screening test, which we currently primarily receive reimbursement for on a per-condition basis.. As further discussed in the risk factor entitled \" - We may not be successful in commercializing our cloud-based distribution model\", our results of operations may be adversely affected if we do not sell a sufficient volume of tests under our cloud-based distribution model to offset the lower revenues per test performed under that model. As a result of our limited operating history, our ability to forecast our future operating results, including revenues, cash flows and profitability, is limited and subject to a number of uncertainties. We have also encountered and will continue to encounter risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies in the life sciences and technology industry, such as those described in this report. If our assumptions regarding these risks and uncertainties are incorrect or these risks and uncertainties change due to changes in our markets, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our operating and financial results may differ materially from our expectations, and our business may suffer.. Uncertainty in the development and commercialization of our enhanced or new tests or services could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our success will depend in part on our ability to effectively introduce enhanced or new tests. We continue to focus our research and development efforts on prenatal products, and are now expanding our platform and applying our expertise in processing and analyzing cell-free DNA in the field of cancer diagnostics. In 2017 we launched several new products or enhanced versions of existing products, including our first offering in oncology for research use only. The development and launch of enhanced or new tests requires the completion of certain clinical development and commercialization activities that are complex, costly, time-intensive and uncertain, and requires us to accurately anticipate patients', clinicians' and payers' attitudes and needs and emerging technology and industry trends. This process is conducted in various stages, and each stage presents the risk that we will not achieve our goals.. We may experience research and development, regulatory, marketing and other difficulties that could delay or prevent our introduction of enhanced or new tests and result in increased costs and the diversion of management's attention and resources from other business matters. For example, any tests that we may enhance or develop may not prove to be clinically effective in clinical trials or commercially, our test performance in commercial experience may be inconsistent with our validation or other clinical data, we may be unable to convince doctors or patients that a new test is necessary or efficacious, even if we believe our data demonstrates this, or we may otherwise have to abandon a test in which we have invested substantial resources. In particular, we are subject to the risk that the biological characteristics of the genetic mutations we seek to target, and upon which our technologies rely, are uncertain and difficult to predict. For example, in our efforts to detect and analyze circulating tumor DNA in plasma for cancer screening, our success depends on tumors shedding mutant DNA into the bloodstream in sufficient quantities such that our technology can detect such mutations. We may also experience unforeseen difficulties when implementing updates to our processes, as we have occasionally experienced with Panorama, and as we may experience with Horizon, for which we are in the process of revising a significant part of the workflow.. We cannot assure you that we can successfully complete the clinical development of any new or enhanced product, or that we can establish or maintain the collaborative relationships that may be essential to our clinical development and commercialization efforts. Clinical development requires large numbers of patient specimens and, for certain products, may require large, prospective, and controlled clinical trials. We may not be able to enroll patients or collect a sufficient number of appropriate specimens in a timely manner; or we may experience delays during clinical development due to slower than anticipated enrollment, which we experienced in the past with our SMART study, or due to changes in study design or other unforeseen circumstances, such as our decision to expand our SMART study to include a larger number of patients; or we may be unable to afford or manage the large-sized clinical trials that some of our planned future products may require. The data collected from any studies we complete may not be favorable or consistent with our existing data or may not be statistically significant or compelling to the medical community or to third-party payers seeking such data for purposes of determining coverage for our tests. This is particularly true with respect to testing in the average-risk pregnancy population and for microdeletions screening using our Panorama test. For example, in January 2017 we published data from our DNAFirst study showing that NIPT can be effectively and appropriately offered as a primary. 35. Table of Contents. screen for all pregnant women regardless of risk due to maternal age or other factors; however, we cannot be certain whether or to what extent it will impact coverage or adoption of Panorama in the average-risk population.. The publication of clinical data in peer-reviewed journals is a crucial step in commercializing and obtaining reimbursement for tests such as ours, and our inability to control when, if ever, results are published may delay or limit our ability to derive sufficient revenues from any test that is the subject of a study. Peer-reviewed publications regarding our tests may be limited by many factors, including delays in the completion of, poor design of, or lack of compelling data from, clinical studies, as well as delays in the review, acceptance and publication process. If our tests or the technology underlying our current tests or future tests do not receive sufficient favorable exposure in peer-reviewed publications, the rate of clinician adoption of our tests and positive reimbursement coverage determinations for our tests could be negatively affected.. In addition, as further described in the risk factor entitled \" - If the FDA were to begin actively regulating our tests, we could incur substantial costs and delays associated with trying to obtain premarket clearance or approval and incur costs associated with complying with post-market controls,\" development of the data necessary to obtain regulatory clearance and approval of a test is time consuming and carries with it the risk of not yielding the desired results. The performance achieved in published studies may not be repeated in later studies that may be required to obtain FDA premarket clearance or approval or regulatory approvals in foreign jurisdictions. Limited results from earlier-stage verification studies may not predict results from studies in larger numbers of subjects drawn from more diverse populations over longer periods of time. Unfavorable results from ongoing preclinical and clinical studies could result in delays, modifications or abandonment of ongoing analytical or future clinical studies, or abandonment of a product development program, or may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals or clearances or commercialization of our product candidates, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition.. We cannot be certain that:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe will be able to develop and validate any test that meets our desired target product profile and with the sensitivity, specificity and other test performance metrics necessary to address the relevant clinical need or commercial opportunity;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe will be able to design, find and engage with sites for, enroll, afford, complete or achieve the desired results from, any clinical studies that are necessary to support the development, regulatory requirements, or target commercial profile of any test;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe will be able to obtain necessary regulatory authorizations in a timely manner or at all;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe will be successful in developing sales and marketing operations or entering into collaborative arrangements to achieve market awareness and demand, or that healthcare providers will order or use, or third-party payers will reimburse (and if so, to what extent), any tests that we may enhance or develop;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tany tests that we may enhance or develop, or services that we may offer, can be provided at acceptable cost and with appropriate quality;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour competitors will not introduce tests or services that have superior performance, lower prices or other characteristics that cause physicians to recommend, or consumers to choose, such competing tests or services over ours, for example in the liquid biopsy field as further described in the risk factor entitled \" - If we are unable to compete successfully with respect to our current or future products or services, we may be unable to increase or sustain our revenues or achieve profitability\"; or.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour tests will not infringe patents held by third parties in key jurisdictions.. These and other factors beyond our control could result in delays or other difficulties in the research and development, approval, production, launch, marketing or distribution of enhanced or new tests and could adversely affect our competitive position and results of operations.. 36. Table of Contents. Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly, which could adversely impact the value of our common stock.. Our quarterly results of operations, including our revenues, gross margin, profitability and cash flows, may vary significantly in the future, and period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. Accordingly, our quarterly results should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Our quarterly results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Factors that may cause fluctuations in our quarterly results include, without limitation, those listed elsewhere in this \"Risk Factors\" section. In addition, our quarterly results have historically fluctuated because we generally recognize costs as they are incurred, but, prior to 2018, recorded most revenue only upon receipt of payment, and as a result typically experienced a delay in the related revenue recognition. However, beginning in 2018, we will transition to accrual accounting in accordance with ASC 606 issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, as further described in \"Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - Recent Accounting Pronouncements -  New Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted\" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, to the extent that we continue to spend considerably on our internal sales and marketing and research and development efforts, we expect to incur costs in advance of achieving the anticipated benefits of such efforts. Fluctuations in quarterly results and key metrics may cause those results to fall below our financial guidance or other projections, or the expectations of analysts or investors, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. We also face competitive pricing and reimbursement pressures, and we may not be able to maintain our premium pricing in the future, which would adversely affect our operating results.. If we are unable to compete successfully with respect to our current or future products or services, we may be unable to increase or sustain our revenues or achieve profitability.. We compete primarily in the molecular testing field, which is characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product introductions, reimbursement challenges, emerging competition, evolving industry standards, intellectual property disputes, price competition, aggressive marketing practices and changing customer preferences. Our principal competition in this field comes from existing testing methods, technologies and products that are used by OB/GYNs, MFM specialists or IVF centers. These include other NIPTs and carrier screening tests offered by our competitors, as well as established, traditional first-line prenatal screening methods, such as serum protein measurement, where doctors measure certain hormones in the blood, and invasive prenatal diagnostic tests like amniocentesis, which have been used for many years and are therefore difficult to displace or supplement. In addition, new testing methods may be developed which may displace or be preferred over NIPTs, such as whole genome sequencing or single cell analysis. We are new to the cord blood and tissue banking field and face competition in that business from established companies with many years of experience in the industry. We are also new to the field of cancer diagnostics and face competition from other companies, many of which are larger, more established and have more experience and more resources than we do. Some of our competitors in the liquid biopsy field are expanding their research and development efforts to include screening for other biomarkers instead of, or in addition to, ctDNA, on the basis that analyzing multiple biomarkers may result in improved sensitivity, lower costs and earlier detection. We cannot assure you that research, discoveries or other advancements by other companies will not render our existing or potential products and services uneconomical or result in products and services that are superior or otherwise preferable to our current or future products and services.. We compete with numerous companies in the genetic diagnostics space. Our primary competitors in NIPT include Sequenom, which was recently acquired by LabCorp; Illumina, through its subsidiary Verinata; Ariosa, a subsidiary of Roche; Counsyl, Inc.; Bio-Reference, a business unit of OKPO Health, Inc.; Quest; Premaitha Health PLC; BGI; Berry Genomics Co., Ltd.; Progenity; LifeCodexx AG; Synlab International GmbH; and Multiplicom N.V., which was recently acquired by Agilent Technologies Inc. All of our main NIPT competitors in the United States are owned or controlled by companies much larger than ours and with much greater resources for sales, marketing and research and development efforts. Our primary competitors in carrier screening include LabCorp; Counsyl, Inc.; Good Start Genetics, Inc., which has been acquired by Invitae Corp.; Progenity; Quest; Recombine Inc.; NxGen MDx LLC; Fulgent Genetics; and GenPath Diagnostics, a business unit of Bio-Reference. In cord blood and tissue banking, we compete with companies such as Cord Blood Registry, a subsidiary of AMAG Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; ViaCord, a division of PerkinElmer, Inc.; Cryo-Cell International, Inc.; CorCell Companies, Inc.; LifeBankUSA; AlphaCord LLC; StemCyte USA; and CariCord. In the field of cancer diagnostics through liquid biopsy tests, which are clinical cancer diagnostic tests that examine blood samples, rather than solid tumor biopsies, and which are the same type of cancer diagnostic tests as Signatera (RUO) and other cancer diagnostic tests that we are seeking to develop, we face competition from various companies that offer or seek to. 37. Table of Contents. offer competing solutions, such as Roche Molecular Systems Inc. and Foundation Medicine, Inc., both subsidiaries of Roche, Grail, which was spun off from Illumina, Guardant Health, Inc., Personal Genome Diagnostics, Inc., and Genomic Health Inc.. We expect that the number of competitors in this space will continue to increase as we conduct our development and commercialization activities.. Some of our competitors' products and services are sold at a lower price than ours, which could cause sales of our tests and services to decline or force us to reduce our prices. Our current and future competitors could have greater technological, financial, reputational and market access advantages than us, and we may not be able to compete effectively against them. Increased competition is likely to result in pricing pressures, which could harm our revenues, operating income or market share. If we are unable to compete successfully, we may be unable to increase or sustain our revenues or achieve profitability.. We may not be successful in commercializing our cloud-based distribution model.. We utilize a cloud-based distribution model to deploy our bioinformatics technology for use by other laboratories. Under this model, clinical laboratories around the world, including the U.S., license our technology to develop and run their own NIPT or other molecular testing assays in their own facilities, and then access our proprietary algorithms through our cloud-based Constellation software to analyze the assay results. In the diagnostics industry, the market for cloud-based solutions and services is not as mature as the market for on-premise enterprise software, and it remains uncertain whether and to what extent our cloud-based distribution model will achieve and sustain high levels of customer demand and market acceptance. As of March 1, 2018, we have agreements with only 23 licensees under our cloud-based distribution model, which we commercially launched in 2015, and only 11 are using Constellation commercially to market NIPT products and one is using Constellation commercially to market its non-invasive prenatal paternity test in the United States and internationally. The rate of adoption of our cloud-based distribution model continues to be slower than we anticipated, and depends on a number of factors, including the cost, performance and perceived value associated with our solution, as well as our ability to address security, privacy and regulatory requirements or concerns. In particular, all of our licensees under our cloud-based distribution model are required to use Illumina sequencers and reagents to run their tests that they develop based on our technology. As further described in the risk factor entitled \" - We rely on a limited number of suppliers or, in some cases, single suppliers, for some of our laboratory instruments and materials and may not be able to find replacements or immediately transition to alternative suppliers\", we are aware that Illumina has required our licensees to pay an additional license fee in certain jurisdictions in order to secure a supply agreement for the sequencers and reagents necessary to run NIPT under our cloud-based distribution model. Furthermore, Illumina competes with us through Verinata, and may not charge a similar license fee for Verinata's licensed-based offering to other laboratories. As a result, our potential or current licensees may be unable to commercially launch their tests under our cloud-based distribution model in a financially viable manner, which has dissuaded and could continue to dissuade potential or current licensees from licensing from us or launching a test based on our technology.. We also do not know whether, over the long term, this model will result in benefits or cost savings at the levels that we anticipate or at all. For example, to the extent that any of our laboratory customers for whom we currently perform our tests entirely in our laboratory transition to our cloud-based distribution model, our revenues from such customers will decrease because we are not able to charge as high an amount per test as when we perform the entire test ourselves. If the lower revenues per test performed is not offset by a sufficient increase in volume of tests sold, our overall revenues will be lower, and our results of operations may be adversely affected.. Among the risks to our business and results of operations from our Constellation model are the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour and our licensees' ability to obtain required regulatory authorizations from the FDA and international regulatory agencies as further described in the risk factor entitled \"Reimbursement and Regulatory Risks Related to Our Business - Failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals in foreign jurisdictions may adversely affect our ability to expand our operations internationally\";.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsupply constraints, including with respect to the blood collection tubes that are used for our Panorama test and that are supplied by Streck, Inc., as further described in the risk factor entitled \" - We rely on a limited. 38. Table of Contents. number of suppliers or, in some cases, single suppliers, for some of our laboratory instruments and materials and may not be able to find replacements or immediately transition to alternative suppliers\";.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tallegations or potential third-party claims that the tests, based on our technology, developed by our licensees violate such third parties' intellectual property rights in the territories in which our licensees commercialize their tests;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlicensing portions of our proprietary technology to third parties that may not take the same security precautions as we do to protect this information; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tan inability to achieve anticipated benefits and costs savings.. If we or other cloud-based solution providers experience security incidents, loss of customer data or disruptions in delivery or other problems, the market for cloud-based solutions in the diagnostics industry, including our solutions, may be adversely affected. Such events could also result in potential lawsuits and liability claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If there is a reduction in demand for cloud-based solutions caused by technological challenges, weakening economic conditions, security or privacy concerns, competing technologies and products or other challenges, we may not be successful in executing our Constellation business model, and our results of operations may be adversely affected.. We may be unable to continue commercializing our cloud-based distribution model in jurisdictions, including the United States, if we do not comply with ongoing regulatory requirements in such jurisdictions.. We utilize our Constellation software to aid in the calculation of test data. We have received a CE Mark from the European Commission for our Constellation software, through which our laboratory licensees access our algorithms under our cloud-based distribution model, as well as for the key reagents that our laboratory licensees need in order to run their NIPT based on our technology. This enables us to offer Constellation for NIPT in the European Union and other countries that accept a CE Mark. However, as further described in the risk factor entitled \" - Failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals in foreign jurisdictions may adversely affect our ability to expand our operations internationally,\" we have not obtained a CE Mark for our Panorama test as a whole. This, coupled with our use of our Panorama brand name under our Constellation model, has caused confusion among the regulatory authorities in some countries in the European Union, and as a result we have had to address inquiries from regulatory authorities in such countries from time to time, and it is likely that we will continue to do so in the future.. We may also need to obtain regulatory clearance or approval in the United States and elsewhere for our Constellation software in order for it to be used by third parties in the development and commercialization of their diagnostic tests based on our technology. We are currently engaged in discussions with the FDA regarding the regulatory status in the United States of a portion of our Constellation software, the copy number calculator, or CNC, to make calls of copy number variants, which are genetic mutations in which relatively large regions of the genome have been deleted or duplicated. The FDA has indicated to us that the CNC may be appropriate for review under the de novo classification process, which is less burdensome than the premarket approval, or PMA, process. The FDA has stated that it will not prevent us from marketing Constellation in the United States while we continue to discuss with the FDA how it will be regulated; however, it is possible that the FDA may reverse itself either on the appropriate regulatory review path or on the issue of our ability to continue to market Constellation during our discussions. If necessary, we intend to seek regulatory clearance or approval for our Constellation software; however, we cannot guarantee that we will obtain such clearance or approval. If clearance or approval is required by the FDA and we are unable to obtain it, we would be unable to commercialize our cloud-based distribution model in the United States.. If our Constellation software requires regulatory clearance or approval in the United States, we will be subject to ongoing FDA obligations and continued regulatory oversight and review, including compliance with requirements such as the quality system regulation, or QSR, which establishes extensive requirements for quality assurance and control as well as manufacturing procedures; the listing of our devices with the FDA; adverse event and malfunction reporting; corrections and removals reporting; and labeling and promotional requirements. We may also be subject to additional FDA post-marketing obligations. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance to the extent required, we may not be permitted to offer our Constellation software and may be subject to enforcement action by the FDA, such as the issuance of warning. 39. Table of Contents. or untitled letters, fines, injunctions and civil penalties; recall or seizure of products; operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. In addition, if a test developed by any of our licensees under our cloud-based distribution model in the United States is found not to be a laboratory developed test, or LDT, or that licensee has difficulty obtaining the reagents and sequencing equipment for any regulatory, supply chain, or other reason, the licensee may not be able to market its test, we would not receive the anticipated revenues from that licensee, and potential or other current licensees may be dissuaded from utilizing our Constellation software.. We may be subject to increased compliance risks as a result of our rapid growth, including our dependence on our sales, marketing and billing personnel.. Approximately 83% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017 were attributable to our U.S. direct sales. We have had to expand our training and compliance efforts in line with our increasing reliance on personnel in our sales, marketing and billing functions; we continue to monitor our personnel, but we have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, situations in which employees fail to strictly adhere to our policies. In addition, sales and marketing activities in the healthcare space are subject to various rules and regulations, as described in the risk factor entitled \" - Reimbursement and Regulatory Risks Related to Our Business - If we or our laboratory distribution partners, consultants or commercial partners act in a manner that violated healthcare fraud and abuse laws or otherwise engage in misconduct, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties\"; moreover, our billing and marketing messaging can be complex and nuanced, and there may be errors or misunderstandings in our employees' communication of such messaging. Furthermore, as we continue to scale up our sales and marketing efforts in line with the growth in our business, in particular our increased pace of product launches, we face an increased need to continuously monitor and improve our policies, processes and procedures to maintain compliance with a growing number and variety of laws and regulations, including with respect to consumer marketing. To the extent that there is any failure, whether actual or perceived, by our employees to follow our policies, we may incur additional training and compliance costs, or may receive inquiries from third-party payers or other third parties, or be held liable or otherwise responsible for such acts of non-compliance. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our cash flow and financial condition.. We rely on internal and third-party data centers and platforms to host our laboratory and cloud-based software, and any interruptions of service or failures may impair our laboratory operations or the delivery of our cloud-based services and harm our business.. We currently maintain a data center at our laboratory facilities in San Carlos, California. In addition, our proprietary bioinformatics algorithms are a crucial component of our test processing, and combine information derived from our mmPCR assay workflows with publicly available data from the broader scientific community to analyze and return test results. We host the significant majority of these algorithms on a cloud-based software platform pursuant to an agreement with DNAnexus, Inc., or DNAnexus, and both we and our Constellation licensees access our algorithms through the DNAnexus platform. The DNAnexus platform is hosted on third-party data center hosting facilities operated by Amazon Web Services, or AWS, located in the United States and in the European Union. These algorithms cannot currently be run other than through the DNAnexus platform; they are currently used to run our Panorama NIPT, NIPT analysis for our Constellation licensees, our Signatera (RUO) liquid biopsy technology, and for certain of our research and development activities, and we plan to utilize the platform for additional applications in the future. In the event of any technical problems that may arise in connection with our on-site data center, the DNAnexus platform or the AWS servers on which the DNAnexus platform is hosted, or difficulties in or termination of our relationship with DNAnexus, we could experience interruptions in our laboratory operations or our cloud-based services, and we and our Constellation licensees may be unable to access our proprietary algorithms and therefore be unable to process tests or conduct any other activities that require access to such algorithms. We do not have any backup platform, server or other means to host our algorithms, and may be unable to find and implement an alternative platform that is satisfactory for our needs on commercially reasonable terms, in a timely manner, or at all. These types of problems may be caused by a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, viruses, security attacks, fraud, spikes in customer usage and denial of service issues. Interruptions in our operations or service may reduce our revenue, cause us to issue refunds, result in the loss of customers, cause laboratory licensees to terminate their contracts with us, adversely affect our ability to attract new laboratory licensees, or harm our reputation. We could also be exposed to potential lawsuits and liability claims.. 40. Table of Contents. If our products do not perform as expected, our operating results, reputation and business will suffer.. Our success depends on the market's confidence that we can provide reliable, high-quality genetic testing results. There is no guarantee that the accuracy and reproducibility we have demonstrated to date will continue as our test volumes increase and our product portfolio expands. We believe that our customers are particularly sensitive to test limitations and errors, including inaccurate test results and the need on occasion to perform second blood draws, or redraws, on patients, for which Panorama experiences a higher advertised rate than other NIPTs. As a result, if our tests do not perform as expected or favorably in comparison to competitive tests, our operating results, reputation, and business will suffer. We may be subject to legal claims arising from such limitations, errors, or inaccuracies.. Panorama and our other products use a number of complex and sophisticated biochemical and bioinformatics processes, many of which are highly sensitive to external factors. An operational or technological failure in one of these complex processes or fluctuations in external variables may result in sensitivity and specificity rates that are lower than we anticipate or that vary between test runs, a higher than anticipated number of tests that require redraws or fail to produce results, or longer than expected turnaround times, which we sometimes experience as a result of issues with laboratory equipment, components or materials or otherwise. In addition, we regularly evaluate and refine our testing process. These refinements may not improve our tests as we expect, and may result in unanticipated issues that may adversely affect our test performance as described above. Furthermore, any changes to our testing process may require us to use new or different suppliers or materials with whom or which we are unfamiliar, and which may not perform as we anticipate.. In addition, as further discussed in the risk factor entitled \"If we are unable to successfully grow revenues for our current or future products or services in addition to Panorama, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected,\" we have only recently launched our Evercord service, which is in an industry in which we previously had no experience; we also recently launched our Vistara NIPT and our Signatera (RUO) liquid biopsy technology for research use only. Any failure to meet consumer expectations could harm our reputation.. We rely on third-party laboratories to perform some of our testing.. We and our subsidiaries outsource the portions of testing that we do not perform in-house to third-party CLIA certified laboratories. For example, a significant portion of our Horizon carrier screening testing, and our Vistara single-gene mutations testing, is performed by third-party laboratories. In addition, we contract with a third-party laboratory to perform the processing and storage of our Evercord customers' cord blood and cord tissue samples. These third-party laboratories are subject to contractual obligations to perform these services for us, but are not otherwise under our control. We therefore do not control the capacity and quality control efforts of these third-party laboratories other than through our ability to enforce contractual obligations on volume and quality systems, and we have no control over such laboratories' compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We also have no control over the timeliness of such laboratories' performance of their obligations to us, and the third-party laboratories that we contract with have in the past had issues with delivering results to us within the time frames we expected or established in our contracts with them. In the event of any adverse developments with these third-party laboratories or their ability to perform this testing in a timely manner and in accordance with the standards that we and our customers expect, our ability to provide test results to customers may be delayed or interrupted, which could result in a loss of customers and harm to our reputation. We may not have sufficient alternative backup if one or more of the third-party laboratories that we contract with are unable to satisfy our demand for this testing with sufficient performance, quality and timeliness. In particular, we do not have a backup laboratory for our Vistara or Evercord offerings. Any natural or other disaster, acts of war or terrorism, shipping embargoes, labor unrest or political instability or similar events at one or more of our third-party laboratories' facilities that causes a loss of capacity would heighten the risks that we face. Changes to or termination of our agreements or inability to renew our agreements with these third-party laboratories or enter into new agreements with other laboratories that are able to perform such testing could impair, delay or suspend our efforts to market and sell these tests. In addition, certain third-party payers, including some state Medicaid payers, that we are under contract with may take the position that sending out testing to third-party laboratories and billing for such tests is contrary to the terms of our contract and may refuse to pay us for the testing. If any of these events occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. Further, some state laws impose anti-markup restrictions that prevent an entity from realizing a profit margin on outsourced testing. If we or our subsidiaries are unable to markup outsourced testing, our revenues and operating margins would suffer.. 41. Table of Contents. If we are unable to successfully grow revenues for our products or services in addition to Panorama, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.. Our ability to successfully grow revenues for products or services in addition to Panorama, such as Horizon, Spectrum, Anora, Vistara, Evercord and Signatera (RUO), is uncertain and is subject to many of the risks we face with respect to Panorama. For example, the adoption and demand for such products or services may not grow as we expect; we may not be able to demonstrate that such products or services are equivalent to or superior to competing products or services; third-party payers may not reimburse for our tests, or may set the amounts of such reimbursements at prices that do not allow us to cover our expenses; we may fail to compete successfully in the relevant product markets, or our laboratory distribution partners may choose to more actively or exclusively market tests by competitors; we may experience supply constraints; and we may fail to adequately protect our intellectual property relating to our products or others may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. If we are not able to increase adoption of and grow revenues for these products or services, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.. We launched our Evercord cord blood and cord tissue banking service in April 2017; our Vistara single-gene mutations screening test in May 2017; our Signatera (RUO) recurrence monitoring liquid biopsy offering for research use only in August 2017; and our twin pregnancies screening capability for Panorama in October 2017. Our success with these offerings are subject to many of the risks affecting our business generally, as well as the inherent difficulty associated with launching a new offering. Moreover, our Evercord offering is in an industry that is new to us and that includes competitors who have been operating for many years. We may face unforeseen difficulties in a number of areas, including with Bloodworks Northwest, or Bloodworks, which is our partner providing the processing and storage services, and storage facility, for this offering; our other suppliers and service providers; our and Bloodworks' ability to maintain required regulatory registrations from the FDA or accreditations from AABB; or disruption of our business and distraction of our employees and management, as described in the risk factor entitled \"If we are unable to successfully scale our operations, our business could suffer.\" Our Signatera (RUO) offering, while a molecular diagnostic technology, is in a field that is new to us; and Vistara is subject to the risks inherent in commercializing a product with a commercial partner. We have had to review and, in some cases, revise our processes, procedures and agreements with our business partners to address unforeseen operational issues and other contingencies, and will likely continue to do so as these areas of our business grow. We cannot assure you that our Evercord, Vistara or Signatera (RUO) offerings will be successful.. If our sole CLIA-certified laboratory facility becomes inoperable, we will be unable to perform our tests and our business will be harmed.. We do not currently have redundant commercial laboratory facilities, other than third-party laboratories that we employ to perform a significant portion of our Horizon carrier screen testing, our Vistara single-gene mutations testing, and the processing and storage of cord blood and cord tissue for our Evercord offering. We have no backup or redundant facility to perform our main product and source of revenue, Panorama, which we perform at our San Carlos, California laboratory facility. This facility is situated near active earthquake fault lines. Our facility may be harmed or rendered inoperable, or samples could be damaged or destroyed, by natural or manmade disasters, including earthquakes, flooding, power outages and contamination, which may render it difficult or impossible for us to perform our tests for some period of time. The inability to perform our tests or the backlog of tests that could develop if our facility is inoperable for even a short period of time may result in the loss of customers or harm our reputation.. We rely on a limited number of suppliers or, in some cases, single suppliers, for some of our laboratory instruments and materials and may not be able to find replacements or immediately transition to alternative suppliers.. We have sourced and will continue to source components of our technology, including sequencers, reagents, tubes and other laboratory materials, from third parties. In particular, our sequencers, many of our reagents, and our blood collection tubes are sole sourced. For example, our molecular diagnostics tests are currently only validated to perform on Illumina's sequencing platform; in addition, Illumina is currently the sole supplier of our sequencers and related reagents for Panorama and Signatera (RUO) and for our development activities relating to oncology diagnostics, along with certain hardware and software, pursuant to a supply agreement that expires in June 2026. Without sequencers and the related reagents, we would be unable to run our tests and commercialize our products. In addition, all of the licensees under our cloud-based distribution model do not have alternatives other than to use Illumina sequencers and reagents to run the tests. 42. Table of Contents. that they develop based on our technology. In addition, Illumina and Sequenom, which has been acquired by LabCorp, have entered into a patent pooling agreement pursuant to which both parties have pooled their intellectual property directed to NIPT. We understand from public filings that under the patent pooling agreement, Illumina has the exclusive worldwide rights to, among other things, license third-party laboratories to develop and sell NIPTs utilizing the pooled intellectual property and to enforce the pooled intellectual property against suspected infringers. Under our supply agreement with Illumina, we do not have an express license to the pooled intellectual property for running our own tests or to grant rights under the pooled intellectual property to the licensees under our cloud-based distribution model. We are aware that Illumina has required our licensees, in order to secure a supply agreement for the sequencers and reagents necessary to run NIPT under our cloud-based distribution model, to pay an additional fee for a license under the pooled intellectual property in jurisdictions in which Illumina believes certain of the pooled intellectual property is enforceable. This additional fee has dissuaded and could continue to dissuade potential or current licensees from licensing from us or launching a test based on our technology. In addition, while our supply agreement with Illumina does not allow Illumina to charge us an additional fee, Illumina could attempt to require us to pay such a fee by, for example, bringing a patent infringement lawsuit against us. While we believe that our commercialization of Panorama in the United States does not infringe any valid patents included in the pooled intellectual property, we cannot be certain as to the outcome of a lawsuit based on this intellectual property, and the costs and distraction to management of defending against such a lawsuit would likely be significant. In addition, Illumina directly competes with us in the NIPT market through its subsidiary, Verinata. We understand Illumina supplies the same or similar sequencers and consumables to Verinata. Because of Illumina's ownership of Verinata, we face increased risk and uncertainty regarding continuity of a successful working relationship with Illumina under our supply agreement, as well as in our ability to compete with Verinata in the marketplace in view of economic advantages enjoyed by Verinata with respect to the cost of sequencers and related consumables. Our failure to maintain a continued supply of the sequencers and reagents, along with the right to use certain hardware and software, would adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In the event that it is in our commercial or financial interest or we are forced to transition sequencing platforms, reagents or other components, these efforts may require significant resources, expenditures and time and attention of management; intellectual property rights held by Illumina or our other competitors may prevent us from sourcing and validating an alternative sequencing platform; and we may not be successful in selecting, acquiring on commercially reasonable terms, and implementing alternative platforms, reagents or other components that are satisfactory for our needs or that we can employ in a timely manner or in a commercially sustainable way.. In addition, our Panorama test is currently only validated to be performed using Streck, Inc., or Streck's, blood collection tubes, and Streck is the sole supplier of the blood collection tubes included in our Panorama test under a supply arrangement with Streck under which we are required to exclusively use Streck tubes. All of the licensees under our cloud-based distribution model also have no current alternative but to use these blood collection tubes to run the tests that they develop based on our technology. The blood collection tubes supplied by Streck are intended for research use only and are labeled as RUO. Our sequencers, sourced from Illumina, as well as certain other reagents we use for Panorama and our other tests, are also labeled as RUO. As discussed further in the risk factor entitled \"Reimbursement and Regulatory Risks Related to Our Business - Changes in the way the FDA regulates the reagents, other consumables, and testing equipment we use when developing, validating, and performing our tests could result in delay or additional expense in bringing our tests to market or performing such tests for our customers,\" the FDA may determine that a product labeled RUO is, nonetheless, intended to be used diagnostically, and could take enforcement action against the supplier of the product. If this were to occur with respect to Streck, Illumina or any of our other suppliers of RUO products, we would be required to obtain one or more alternative sources of these products, and we may not be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Furthermore, because our licensees under our cloud-based distribution model also exclusively use such sole-sourced components to run the tests they develop based on our technology, and our laboratory distribution partners must use certain of such sole-sourced components in order to utilize our tests, any enforcement action against the supplier by the FDA or any other regulatory authority in the jurisdictions in which our licensees and laboratory distribution partners are located could have an adverse impact on our business.. Because we rely on third-party manufacturers, we do not control the manufacture of these components, including whether such components will meet our quality control requirements, nor the ability of our suppliers to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. In many cases, our suppliers are not contractually required to supply these components to the quality or performance standards that we require. If the supply of components we receive do not meet our quality control or performance standards, we may not be able to use the components, or if we use them not knowing. 43. Table of Contents. that they are of inadequate quality, which occasionally occurs with respect to certain reagents, our tests may not work properly or at all, and we may be subject to significant delays caused by interruption in production or manufacturing or to lost revenue from such interruption or from spoiled tests. In addition, any natural or other disaster, acts of war or terrorism, shipping embargoes, labor unrest or political instability or similar events at our third-party manufacturers' facilities that causes a loss of manufacturing capacity would heighten the risks that we face.. In the event of any adverse developments with our sole suppliers, or if any of our sole suppliers modifies any of the components they supply to us, our ability to supply our products may be interrupted, and obtaining substitute components could be difficult or require us to re-design or re-validate our products.  In addition, if we obtain a premarket approval, or PMA, for Panorama as an in vitro diagnostic, or IVD, such issues with suppliers or the components that we source from suppliers could affect our commercialization efforts for such an IVD, as further described in the risk factor entitled \"Reimbursement and Regulatory Risks Related to Our Business - If the FDA were to begin actively regulating our tests, we could incur substantial costs and delays associated with trying to obtain premarket clearance or approval and incur costs associated with complying with post-market controls.\" Our failure to maintain a continued supply of components, or a supply that meets our quality control requirements, or changes to or termination of our agreements or inability to renew our agreements with these parties or enter into new agreements with other suppliers, particularly in the case of sole suppliers such as Streck and Illumina, could result in the loss of access to important components of our tests and impact our test performance or affect our ability to perform our tests in a timely manner or at all, which could impair, delay or suspend our commercialization activities. In the event that we transition to a new supplier from any of our sole suppliers, doing so could be time consuming and expensive, may result in interruptions in our ability to supply our products to the market, could affect the performance specifications of our tests or could require that we re-validate Panorama and our other tests using replacement equipment and supplies, which could delay the performance of our tests and result in increased costs. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on commercial courier delivery services to transport samples to our facilities in a timely and cost-efficient manner and if these delivery services are disrupted, our business will be harmed.. Our core business depends on our ability to quickly and reliably deliver test results to our customers. We typically receive blood samples for analysis at our San Carlos, California facility within days of collection from the patient. Likewise, we rely on courier services to transport cord blood and tissue samples to Bloodworks' facility in which the samples will be processed and stored. Disruptions in delivery service, whether due to error by the courier service, labor disruptions, bad weather, natural disaster, terrorist acts or threats or for other reasons, could adversely affect specimen integrity, our ability to process or store samples in a timely manner and to service our customers, and ultimately our reputation and our business. In addition, if we are unable to continue to obtain expedited delivery services on commercially reasonable terms, our operating results may be adversely affected.. Security breaches, loss of data and other disruptions, including with respect to cybersecurity, could compromise sensitive information related to our business or prevent us from accessing critical information and expose us to liability, which could adversely affect our business and reputation.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including legally-protected personal information, such as test results and other patient health information, credit card and other financial information, insurance information, and personally identifiable information. We also store sensitive intellectual property and other proprietary business information, including that of our customers, payers and collaboration partners. We manage and maintain our applications and data utilizing a combination of on-site systems, managed data center systems and cloud-based data center systems. These applications and data encompass a wide variety of business-critical information, including research and development information, commercial information and business and financial information. We are highly dependent on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to securely process, transmit, and store this critical information. Although we take measures to protect sensitive information from unauthorized access or disclosure, our information technology and infrastructure, and that of our technology providers, may be vulnerable to cyber-attacks by hackers or viruses or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions.. 44. Table of Contents. Any such breach or interruption could compromise our data security, and the information we store could be inaccessible by us or could be accessed by unauthorized parties, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such interruption in access, improper access, disclosure, modification, or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, such as the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, European data privacy regulations, such as the General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, and regulatory penalties. We may be required to comply with state breach notification laws, become subject to mandatory corrective action, or be required to verify the correctness of database contents. Unauthorized access, loss or dissemination could also disrupt our operations, including our ability to perform tests, provide test results, bill payers or patients, process claims and appeals, provide customer assistance services, conduct research and development activities, develop and commercialize tests, collect, process and prepare company financial information, provide information about our tests, and manage the administrative aspects of our business, any of which could damage our reputation and adversely affect our business. In addition, these breaches and other inappropriate access can be difficult to detect, and any delay in identifying them may compound these adverse consequences. Any such breach could also result in the compromise of our trade secrets and other proprietary information, which could adversely affect our competitive position.. Our cloud-based distribution model adds additional data privacy risk, as certain personal health and other information may be sent to and stored in the cloud by our laboratory licensees. We contractually prohibit our licensees from sending personally-identifiable information to our cloud servers, and the vendor that hosts our software in the cloud is contractually required to comply with data privacy laws, such as HIPAA. However, we cannot be certain that these third parties will comply with the terms of our agreements, nor that they will not experience security breaches or other disruptions.. Damage to or loss of our Evercord customers' cord blood and cord tissue samples held in our custody could potentially result in significant legal liability and harm our reputation.. Our reputation among clients and the medical and birthing services community is extremely important to the commercial success of our Evercord service offering. This is due in significant part to the nature of the service we provide  -  as we are assuming custodial care of a child's umbilical cord blood stem cells entrusted to us by the parents for potential future use as a therapeutic for the child or a close relative. We believe that our reputation, and Bloodworks' reputation, enables us to market Evercord as a competitive cord blood and tissue preservation service in a crowded marketplace. However, we may experience unforeseen issues, such as loss of or damage to a sample during transit, during the preservation process or while in storage. For example, Bloodworks' facility is situated near active earthquake fault lines, and if this facility or the equipment in the facility are significantly damaged or destroyed by natural or manmade disasters, including earthquakes, flooding or power outages, we could suffer a loss of some or all of the stored cord blood and tissue units. In addition, if we encounter problems during transportation, including while our customers' samples are in the possession of third-party commercial carriers that we contract with to transport the samples, some or all of the transported units could be damaged. Any such problems, particularly if publicized, could negatively impact our reputation, which could adversely affect our business and business prospects. If our Evercord offering does not meet customer or other public expectations, any resulting harm to our reputation could extend beyond Evercord to our core women's health and genetic testing business, which comprises the substantial portion of our revenue, because Evercord is promoted to the same OB/GYNs who prescribe and order many of our other products.. In addition to reputational damage, we face the risk of legal liability for loss of or damage to cord blood units. We do not own the cord blood units banked by our cord blood banking customers; instead, we act as custodian on behalf of the child-donor's parent or guardian. Loss of or damage to the units would be loss of or damage to the customer's property. We have included provisions in our enrollment agreement for this service, limiting our liability. However, we cannot be sure to what extent we could nevertheless be found liable for damages suffered as a result of harm to or loss of a cord blood unit, and if we are found liable, whether our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover such damages.. We offer a quality service guarantee that provides that, subject to certain conditions, if an Evercord customer's cord blood and tissue sample is used for a transplant and fails to engraft, or begin to grow and develop, we will refund all service fees paid to us by the customer plus an additional $100,000. Failure to engraft can occur for a variety of reasons,. 45. Table of Contents. and may occur more frequently than we anticipate. Frequent failures to engraft could result in many customers making claims under our quality service guarantee, which could adversely impact the profitability of this service offering.. The marketing, sale, and use of Panorama and our other products could result in substantial damages arising from product liability or professional liability claims that exceed our resources.. The marketing, sale and use of Panorama and our other products could lead to product liability claims against us if someone were to allege that our test failed to perform as it was designed or as claimed in our promotional materials, was performed pursuant to incorrect or inadequate laboratory procedures, if we delivered incorrect or incomplete test results, or if someone were to misinterpret test results. In addition, we may be subject to liability for errors in, a misunderstanding of, or inappropriate reliance upon, the information we provide, or for failure to provide such information, in connection with our marketing and promotional activities or as part of the results generated by Panorama and our other products. For example, Panorama could provide a low-risk result which a patient or physician may rely upon to make a conclusion about the health of the fetus, which may, in fact, have the condition for which we delivered a low-risk result because the Panorama result was a so-called false negative. Even though Panorama is highly accurate, it is not 100% accurate and we may report false negative results. If the resulting baby with the condition is born, the family may file a lawsuit against us claiming product or professional liability. We are currently involved in a lawsuit by a patient alleging that we failed to perform a carrier screening test that was ordered. See \"Commitments and Contingencies - Legal Proceedings\" in Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. A product liability or professional liability claim could result in substantial damages and be costly and time-consuming for us to defend. Although we maintain product and professional liability insurance, our insurance may not fully protect us from the financial impact of defending against product liability or professional liability claims or any judgments, fines or settlement costs arising out of any such claims. Any product liability or professional liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could increase our insurance rates, cause our insurance coverage to be terminated or prevent us from securing insurance coverage in the future. Additionally, any product liability or professional liability lawsuit could harm our reputation, result in a cessation of our services or cause our partners to terminate our agreements with them, any of which could adversely impact our results of operations.. If we are unable to successfully scale our operations, our business could suffer.. As our test volumes and product offerings grow, we will need to continue to ramp up our testing capacity and implement increases in scale. We will need additional or new equipment, laboratory space and qualified laboratory personnel, and will need to increase office space, expand our customer service capabilities, implement billing and systems process improvements, enhance our controls and procedures and expand our internal quality assurance program and technology platform. The value of Panorama and our other products depends on our ability to perform the tests on a timely basis and at an exceptionally high standard of quality, and on maintaining our reputation for such timeliness and quality. Failure to implement necessary procedures, transition to new equipment or processes or to hire the necessary personnel in a timely and effective manner could result in higher processing costs or an inability to meet market demand, or could otherwise affect our operating results. For example, in 2017 we experienced a delay in our claims submissions and processing as a result of transitioning most of our insurance billing operations from our headquarters in San Carlos, California to our facility in Austin, Texas, which resulted in our delayed receipt of approximately $1.5 million of insurance payments and impacted our revenue for that quarter. In addition, our efforts to scale our operations may be unable to keep pace with an increase in the frequency of our launches of new or enhanced products and services. We launched four new products in 2017 alone, two of which are in markets or industries that are new to us; as we continue to launch additional offerings and product enhancements, we will need to manage our resources among various initiatives, and such competing priorities could lead to delays in one or more of our business initiatives. Conversely, to the extent that we scale our operations, infrastructure and other resources but do not ultimately meet our anticipated timelines in our product development efforts, we will experience higher costs and expenses than necessary until our project timelines and operational resources become aligned. We may also, intentionally or unintentionally, allocate resources to new products or initiatives in a manner disproportionate to the amount of revenue that such initiatives generate compared to our existing or core offerings. We cannot assure you that our efforts to scale our commercial operations will not negatively affect the quality of our test process or results, or that we will be successful in managing the growing complexity of our business operations.. 46. Table of Contents. To execute our growth plan, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, especially for sales, scientific, medical, laboratory, research and development and other technical personnel, and especially in the San Francisco Bay Area where our headquarters and laboratory facility is located, and the turnover rate of such personnel can be high. We have from time to time experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining employees with appropriate qualifications. Many of the companies with which we compete for highly qualified personnel have greater resources than we have. If we hire employees from competitors or other companies, their former employers may attempt to assert that these employees or we have breached their legal obligations to their former employers. In addition, job candidates and existing employees in the San Francisco Bay Area often consider the value of the equity awards they receive in connection with their employment. To the extent that our current or potential employees perceive the value of our equity awards to be low, our ability to recruit, retain and motivate highly skilled employees may be adversely affected, which could then have an adverse effect on our business and future growth prospects. Furthermore, to the extent that we are unable to retain our employees and they leave our company to join one of our competitors, we cannot assure you that any invention, non-disclosure or non-compete agreements we have in place will provide meaningful protection against a departing employee's unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information, as further discussed in \" - Risks Relating to our Intellectual Property -  If we are not able to adequately protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, the value of our technology and products could be significantly diminished.\". In addition, our growth may place a significant strain on our management, operating and financial systems and our sales, marketing and administrative resources. As a result of our growth, our operating costs may escalate faster than we anticipate, we may face difficulties in obtaining additional office or laboratory space, and some of our internal systems may need to be enhanced or replaced. If we cannot effectively manage our expanding operations and our costs, we may not be able to grow successfully or we may grow at a slower pace, and our business could be adversely affected.. If our sales and distribution partnerships are not successful and we are not able to offset the resulting impact through our direct sales efforts or through agreements with new partners, our commercialization activities may be impaired and our financial results could be adversely affected.. While we have increased the focus of our commercial efforts on our U.S. direct sales force, we continue to rely on relationships with laboratory partners to sell Panorama and our other products, both in the United States and internationally. Distributing Panorama and our other products through partners reduces our control over our revenues, our market penetration and our gross margin on sales by the partner if we could have otherwise made that sale through our direct sales force. The financial condition of these laboratories could weaken, these laboratory partners could stop selling our products, reduce their marketing efforts in respect of our products, develop and commercialize or otherwise sell competing products, or otherwise breach their agreements with us. Furthermore, our laboratory partners may misappropriate our trade secrets or use our proprietary information in such a way as to expose us to litigation and potential liability. Disagreements or disputes with our laboratory partners, including disagreements over customers, proprietary rights or our or their compliance with contractual obligations, might cause delays or impair the commercialization of Panorama or our other tests, lead to additional responsibilities for us with respect to new tests, or result in litigation or arbitration, any of which would divert management attention and resources and be time consuming and expensive.. In addition, we face the risk of our laboratory partners terminating their relationship with us and completely suspending the sale of our products, which has happened in the past. Laboratory partners that are not bound by obligations of exclusivity or non-competition to us or our products could decide to develop their own product that competes with ours or sell a competing product, in addition to or in lieu of our tests. For example, we terminated our licensing and distribution agreement with Bio-Reference in January 2017, and Bio-Reference began selling a competing NIPT. Moreover, our partners could merge with or be acquired by a competitor of ours or a company that chooses to de-prioritize the efforts to sell our products.. If our partnerships are not successful, our ability to increase sales of Panorama and our other products and to successfully execute our strategy could be compromised.. 47. Table of Contents. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by international regulatory and business risks.. As we expand our international operations and offer our tests in other countries, we are increasingly subject to varied and complex foreign and international laws and regulations due to operating, offering our products, or contracting with employees, contractors and other service providers in these other countries. Compliance with these laws and regulations often involves significant costs and may require changes in our business practices that may result in reduced revenues and profitability.. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, or the FCPA, which prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making payments in violation of law to non-U.S. government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or securing any other improper advantage. Our reliance on independent laboratories to sell Panorama and other products internationally demands a high degree of vigilance in maintaining our policy against participation in corrupt activity, because these distributors could be deemed to be our agents and we could be held responsible for their actions. Other U.S. companies in the medical device and pharmaceutical field have faced criminal penalties under the FCPA for allowing their agents to deviate from appropriate practices in doing business with foreign government officials. We are also subject to similar anti-bribery laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including the United Kingdom's Bribery Act of 2010, which also prohibits commercial bribery and makes it a crime for companies to fail to prevent bribery. These laws are complex and far-reaching in nature. Any violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our operations, involve significant management distraction, involve significant costs and expenses, including legal fees, and we could be subject to severe penalties, including criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement, and other remedial measures, any of which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, or results of operations.. In addition, our international activities are subject to U.S. economic and trade sanctions, which restrict or otherwise limit our ability to do business in certain designated countries. Other limitations, such as restrictions on the import into the United States or the export to other countries of tissue or genetic data necessary for us to perform our tests, or restrictions on importation and circulation of blood collection tubes or other equipment or supplies by countries outside the United States, may limit our ability to offer our tests internationally. We may also face competition from companies located in the countries in which we or our partners or licensees offer our tests, and in which we may be at a competitive disadvantage because the country may favor a local provider or for other reasons.. By operating internationally, we may experience longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; realize lower margins due to lower pricing in many countries; incur potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value added tax systems, tax inefficiencies related to our corporate structure and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; experience financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; experience difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including under labor and employment laws and regulations that are new or unfamiliar to us; be subject to trade barriers such as tariffs, quotas, preferential bidding or import or export licensing requirements; be exposed to political, social and economic instability abroad, including terrorist attacks and security concerns; be exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and experience reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights and practical difficulties in enforcing intellectual property and other rights, including with respect to assignment of inventions to us by our consultants in foreign jurisdictions.. Outside the United States we enlist local and regional laboratories, contract employees and other service providers to assist with blood draws, engineering, sales, marketing and customer support. Subject to regulatory clearance where required, we also contract with international licensees to run the molecular portion of our tests in their own labs and then access our algorithm for analysis of the resulting data through our cloud-based Constellation platform. Locating, qualifying and engaging additional distribution partners and local laboratories with local industry experience and knowledge is necessary to effectively market and sell our tests outside the United States. We may not be successful in finding, attracting and retaining such distribution partners or laboratories, or we may not be able to enter into such arrangements on favorable terms. Sales practices and other activities utilized by our distribution partners, contract employees and other service providers that are locally acceptable may not comply with relevant standards required under United States laws that apply to our operations overseas, including through third parties, which could create additional compliance risk. Our training and compliance program and our other internal control policies and procedures may not always protect us from acts. 48. Table of Contents. committed by our employees, contractors or agents abroad. Non-compliance by us or our employees, contractors or agents of these or any other applicable laws or regulations could result in fines or penalties, or adversely affect our ability to operate and grow our business. Even if we are able to effectively manage our international operations, if our distribution partners and local and regional laboratory licensees are unable to effectively manage their businesses, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Furthermore, the legal landscape governing advertising, promotional and other marketing activities can vary widely from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, and is often more complex, less clear or less developed than in the United States. If our marketing activities are found to be in violation of local laws, regulations or practices, we may be subject to fines and other penalties, and may be required to cease marketing or commercialization activities in such jurisdiction. If our sales and marketing efforts are not successful outside the United States, we may not achieve market acceptance for our tests outside the United States, which would harm our business.. Operating internationally requires significant management attention and financial resources. We cannot be certain that the investment and additional resources required to increase international revenues or expand our international presence will produce desired levels of revenues or profitability.. If we lose the services of our founder and Chief Executive Officer or other members of our senior management team, we may not be able to execute our business strategy.. Our success depends in large part upon the continued service of our senior management team. In particular, our founder and Chief Executive Officer, Matthew Rabinowitz, is critical to our vision, strategic direction, culture, products and technology. Although Dr. Rabinowitz spends significant time with us and is highly active in our management, he has the ability to spend up to one business day per week on other commitments pursuant to his employment agreement. In addition, we do not maintain key-man insurance for Dr. Rabinowitz or any other member of our senior management team. The loss of our founder and Chief Executive Officer or one or more other members of our senior management team could have an adverse effect on our business.. We may engage in acquisitions that could disrupt our business, cause dilution to our stockholders or reduce our financial resources.. In the future, we may enter into transactions to acquire other businesses, products or technologies. Because we have not made any acquisitions to date, our ability to do so successfully is unproven. Even if we identify suitable targets, we may not be able to make such acquisitions on favorable terms or at all. Any acquisitions we make may not strengthen our competitive position, and these transactions may be viewed negatively by customers or investors. We may decide to incur debt in connection with an acquisition or issue shares of our common stock or other equity securities to the stockholders of the acquired company, which would cause dilution to our existing stockholders. We could incur losses resulting from undiscovered liabilities of the acquired business that are not covered by any indemnification we may obtain from the seller. In addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired personnel, technologies and operations into our existing business in an effective, timely and non-disruptive manner. Acquisitions may also divert management attention from day-to-day responsibilities, increase our expenses and reduce our cash available for operations and other uses. We cannot predict the number, timing or size of future acquisitions or the effect that any such transactions might have on our operating results.. We may need to raise additional capital, and if we cannot do so when needed or on commercially acceptable terms, we may have to curtail or cease operations.. We may need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financings, corporate collaborations or licensing arrangements to continue to fund or expand our operations.. Our actual liquidity and capital funding requirements will depend on numerous factors, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to achieve broader commercial success with Panorama, Horizon and our other products;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe costs and success of our research, development, and commercialization efforts for potential new products;. 49. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to obtain more extensive coverage and reimbursement for our tests, including in the average-risk patient population and for microdeletions screening;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to generate sufficient revenues from our cloud-based distribution model;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to collect on our accounts receivable;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour need to finance capital expenditures and further expand our clinical laboratory operations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to manage our operating costs; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe timing and results of any regulatory authorizations that we are required to obtain for our tests.. Additional capital, if needed, may not be available on satisfactory terms or at all. Furthermore, any additional capital raised through the sale of equity or equity-linked securities will dilute stockholders' ownership interests in us and may have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. In addition, the terms of any financing may adversely affect stockholders' holdings or rights. Debt financing, if available, may include restrictive covenants, and may impose other constraints on us and our operations, as is the case under our 2017 Term Loan, as further described in the risk factor entitled \" - Our outstanding debt may impair our financial and operating flexibility.\" To the extent that we raise capital through collaborations and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us.. If we are not able to obtain adequate funding when needed, we may have to delay development programs or sales and marketing initiatives. In addition, we may have to work with a partner on one or more of our tests or market development programs, which could lower the economic value of those programs to our company.. Our outstanding debt may impair our financial and operating flexibility.. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, we had approximately $125.1 million and $49.6 million, respectively, of debt outstanding with accrued interest. On August 8, 2017, we completed our 2017 Term Loan under which we borrowed $75.0 million. In addition, we have $50.1 million outstanding under our Credit Line with UBS. Except for operating leases, we do not have any off-balance sheet financing arrangements in place or available. Our 2017 Term Loan contains various restrictive covenants and is secured by substantially all of our assets, including our intellectual property. These restrictions could limit our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must use a portion of these funds to make principal and interest payments on our debt; conversely, our ability to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash. If we default under the 2017 Term Loan or the Credit Line and if the default is not cured or waived, the lenders could terminate their commitments to lend to us and cause any amounts outstanding to be payable immediately. Under certain circumstances, they could also exercise their rights under the security agreements entered into in connection with the loans. Such a default could also result in cross defaults under other debt instruments. Moreover, any such default would limit our ability to obtain additional financing, which may have an adverse effect on our cash flow and liquidity.. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future. If we incur additional debt, a greater portion of our cash flows may be needed to satisfy our debt service obligations, and if we do not generate sufficient cash to meet our debt service requirements, we may need to seek additional financing. In that case, it may be more difficult, or we may be unable, to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to us. As a result, we would be more vulnerable to general adverse economic, industry and capital markets conditions in addition to the risks associated with indebtedness described above.. Ethical, legal and social concerns related to the use of genetic information could reduce demand for our tests.. DNA testing, like that conducted using Panorama, Horizon, our Signatera (RUO) cancer diagnostic test, and our other products, has raised ethical, legal and social issues regarding privacy and the appropriate uses of the resulting information. Governmental authorities could, for social or other purposes, limit or regulate the use of genomic information or genomic testing or prohibit testing for genetic predisposition to certain conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure. Patients may also refuse to use genetic tests even if permissible, for similar reasons; they may also refuse genetic testing due to concerns regarding eligibility for life or other insurance. Ethical and social concerns may also. 50. Table of Contents. influence U.S. and foreign patent offices and courts with regard to patent protection for technology relevant to our business. These and other ethical, legal and social concerns may limit market acceptance of our tests or reduce the potential markets for services and products enabled by our technology platform, either of which could harm our business.. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited.. We have a significant amount of net operating loss, or NOL, carryforwards that can be used to offset potential future taxable income and related income taxes.  As of December 31, 2017, we had federal and state NOL carryforwards of approximately $319.6 million and $165.5 million, respectively, which, if not utilized, begin to expire in 2027 and 2028, respectively. We also had federal research and development credit carryforwards of approximately $11.7 million, which begin to expire in 2028, and state research and development credit carryforwards of approximately $8.1 million, which can be carried forward indefinitely. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change\" (generally defined as a greater than 50% change, by value, in equity ownership over any three-year period), the corporation's ability to use its pre-change NOL carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes to offset its post-change income or taxes may be limited. We may have experienced an \"ownership change\" upon our initial public offering; we may also experience ownership changes in the future as a result of subsequent shifts in our stock ownership, some of which may not be within our control. Our ability to use these carryforwards could be limited if we experience an \"ownership change.\". Our estimates of market opportunity and forecasts of market growth may prove to be inaccurate, and even if the market in which we compete achieves the forecasted growth, our business could fail to grow at similar rates.. Market opportunity estimates and growth forecasts are subject to significant uncertainty and are based on assumptions and estimates that may not prove to be accurate. Our publicly announced estimates and forecasts relating to the size and expected growth of our market may prove to be inaccurate. Even if the market in which we compete meets our size estimates and forecasted growth, our business could fail to grow at similar rates.. Reimbursement and Regulatory Risks Related to Our Business. If we are unable to expand or maintain third-party payer coverage and reimbursement for Panorama and our other tests, or if we are required to refund any reimbursements already received, our revenues and results of operations would be adversely affected.. Our business depends on our ability to obtain or maintain adequate reimbursement coverage from third-party payers and patients. Third-party reimbursement for our testing represents a significant portion of our revenues, and we expect third-party payers such as insurance companies and government healthcare programs to continue to be our most significant source of payments. In particular, we believe that expanding insurance coverage from the high-risk to the average-risk pregnancy population, which represents roughly 80% of the United States pregnancy market, and for microdeletions screening, and obtaining positive coverage determinations and favorable reimbursement rates from commercial third-party payers, CMS, and state reimbursement programs for Panorama, will be necessary for us to continue to achieve commercial success. We do not expect to receive reimbursement for approximately 28,000 Panorama tests for average-risk patients and approximately 41,000 Panorama tests for microdeletions that we performed in the quarter ended December 31, 2017. If we are unable to obtain or maintain adequate reimbursement coverage from, or achieve in-network status with, third-party payers for our existing tests or future tests, our ability to generate revenues will be limited. For example, physicians may be reluctant to order our tests due to the potential of a substantial cost to the patient if reimbursement coverage is unavailable or insufficient.. In making coverage determinations, third-party payers often rely on practice guidelines issued by professional societies. ACMG has issued updated guidelines recommending informing pregnant women that NIPT is the most sensitive screening option for Patau, Edwards and Down syndromes, as well as of the availability of the expanded use of NIPT to screen for clinically relevant CNVs in the context of counseling that includes the risks/benefits and limitations of screening for CNVs. ISPD has issued guidelines that are supportive of performing NIPT in average-risk pregnancies, as well as high-risk pregnancies. However, ACOG and SMFM have issued guidelines for NIPT stating that, while all pregnant women should be informed of the option to receive NIPT, conventional screening methods, such as traditional serum screening,. 51. Table of Contents. rather than NIPT, remain the most appropriate choice for first-line screening for average-risk pregnancies. While we expect that, based on the ACMG, ACOG and SMFM guidelines, more average-risk women will be informed of NIPT and may request it, it is uncertain whether all third-party payers will reimburse for NIPT for these average-risk patients. Currently, Aetna Inc., UnitedHealthcare Insurance Company and a number of other third-party payers have negative coverage determinations for average-risk patient populations, meaning that their policy is not to reimburse for NIPT for patients in the average-risk population. The recent ACOG and SMFM guidelines also echoed a previous statement from SMFM that routine screening for microdeletions should not be performed. Many third-party payers do not reimburse for microdeletions screening. While we have published data on the performance of Panorama for the 22q11.2 deletion syndrome, we have and may continue to experience a negative impact on third-party payers' reimbursement for Panorama for microdeletions, at least until additional validation data on the sensitivity and specificity of our tests becomes available. If we are unable to present satisfactory additional data on the performance of Panorama for 22q11.2 deletion syndrome, including from our SMART study, we may be unable to obtain positive coverage determinations for our test. If third-party payers do not reimburse for NIPT for average-risk pregnancies or microdeletions in the future, our future revenues and results of operations would be adversely affected, including to the extent that we continue to perform large volumes of tests for which we do not receive reimbursement.. Furthermore, a new CPT code for microdeletions went into effect beginning January 1, 2017. We have experienced low average reimbursement rates thus far for microdeletions under this new code, and we expect that this new code will cause, at least in the near term, our microdeletions reimbursement to remain low, either due to third-party payers declining to reimburse or through reduced reimbursement, under the new code, which has had, and we expect to continue to have, an adverse effect on our revenues. In addition, the AMA has approved the use of a CPT code for expanded carrier screening tests, which is expected to take effect January 1, 2019. The new code may cause our reimbursement rates for our broader Horizon carrier screening panel to decrease, as those tests will be reimbursed as a single panel instead of as multiple tests.. The reimbursement environment, particularly for molecular diagnostics, is changing and our efforts to broaden reimbursement for our tests with third-party payers may not be successful. Third-party payers from whom we have received reimbursement may withdraw coverage or decrease the amount of reimbursement coverage for our tests at any time and for any reason. In some cases, our tests or their uses with certain populations, such as for microdeletions, are considered experimental by third-party payers and, as a result, some payers have decided not to reimburse for such tests. In addition, some third-party payers bundle payment for multiple tests, such as Horizon, that screen for multiple conditions, or our Panorama test and the separate Panorama screen for microdeletions, into a single payment rate, thereby limiting our reimbursement. Payers may also dispute our billing or coding. Based on any of the foregoing, third-party payers may also decide to deny payment or recoup payment for testing that they contend to have been not medically necessary, against their coverage determinations, or for which they have otherwise overpaid, and we may be required to refund reimbursements already received. We deal with requests for recoupment from third-party payers from time to time in the ordinary course of our business, and it is likely that we will continue to do so in the future. See \"Commitments and Contingencies - Third-Party Payer Reimbursement Audits\" in Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. If a third-party payer denies payment for testing, reimbursement revenue for our testing could decline. If a third-party payer successfully proves that payment for prior testing was in breach of contract or otherwise contrary to law, they may recoup payment, which amounts could be significant and would impact our results of operations, and we might be required to restate our financials from a prior period, which would likely cause our stock price to decline. As described in \"Commitments and Contingencies - Legal Proceedings\" in Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, we have recently reached a settlement with the United States Department of Justice to pay approximately $11.4 million to resolve claims under a qui tam complaint regarding past reimbursement submissions; although the settlement involved no admission of fault by us and no corporate integrity agreement, we cannot guarantee that we will not be subject to similar claims, resulting in additional settlements or repayments, in the future.. Furthermore, some of our contracts with third-party payers contain so-called most favored nation provisions, pursuant to which we have agreed that we will not bill the third-party payer more than we bill any other third-party payer. We must therefore monitor our billing and claims submissions to ensure that we remain in compliance with these contractual requirements with third-party payers. If we do not successfully manage these most favored nation provisions, we may need to forego revenues from some third-party payers, which would adversely affect our revenues, and we may. 52. Table of Contents. be subject to claims for recoupment, which could require the time and attention of our management, may be a distraction from development of our business and, ultimately, could result in an obligation to repay amounts previously earned.. In addition, if a third-party payer denies coverage, it may be difficult for us to collect from the patient, and we may not be successful in doing so. In particular, we are often unable to collect the full amount of a patient's responsibility where we are an out-of-network provider and the patient is left with a large balance, despite our good faith efforts to collect. As a result, we cannot always collect the full amount due for our tests when third-party payers deny coverage, cover only a portion of the invoiced amount or the patient has a large deductible, which may cause payers to raise questions regarding our billing policies and patient collection practices. We believe that our billing policies and our patient collection practices are compliant with applicable laws. However, we have in the past received, and we may in the future receive, inquiries from third-party payers regarding our billing policies and collection practices. While we have addressed these inquiries as and when they have arisen, there is no guarantee that we will always be successful in addressing such concerns in the future, which may result in a third-party payer deciding to reimburse for our tests at a lower rate or not at all, seeking recoupment of amounts previously paid to us, or bringing legal action seeking reimbursement of previous amounts paid. Any of such occurrences could cause reimbursement revenue for our testing, which constitutes the large majority of our revenue, to decline, or if we were required to make a repayment, which could be significant, this would impact our results of operations, and we might be required to restate our financials from a prior period, which would likely cause our stock price to decline.. We are aware of policies and practices of our competitors to offer patients a set cap on their out-of-pocket responsibility, waive patient responsibility altogether, and, in some cases, to not send patients a bill at all, all of which we believe is not in accordance with third-party payers' policies and, in some cases, not compliant with the law. In contrast, it is our policy not to offer such caps or waivers and to send bills to patients for services rendered. Because of this discrepancy, our offerings may be perceived as less attractive to patients and their healthcare providers, who are concerned about patients having a large financial responsibility for these products. As a result, we believe that our revenues and results of operations have been adversely affected, and may continue to be so affected to the extent that our competitors continue such practices.. Our revenues may be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully obtain reimbursement from state Medicaid programs.. Our revenues from Medicare are currently very small, given the population that Medicare covers, and we do not expect those revenues to increase materially with regard to NIPT. However, Medicare reimbursement can affect both Medicaid reimbursement, which is relevant to NIPT, and reimbursement from commercial third-party payers. Specifically, fee-for-service Medicaid programs generally do not reimburse at rates that exceed Medicare's fee-for-service rates, and many commercial third-party payers set their payment rates at a percentage of the amounts that Medicare pays for testing services. Medicare reimbursement rates are typically based on the Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule, or CLFS, set by CMS pursuant to a statutory formula established by the U.S. Congress. Our current Medicare Part B reimbursement was not set pursuant to a national coverage determination by CMS. Although we believe that coverage is available under Medicare Part B even without such a determination, we currently lack the national coverage certainty afforded by a formal coverage determination by CMS. Thus, CMS could issue an adverse coverage determination as to Panorama which could influence other third-party payers, including Medicaid, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues.. It is estimated that nearly half of all births in the United States are to state Medicaid program recipients. Each state's Medicaid program has its own coverage determinations related to our testing, and many state Medicaid programs do not provide their recipients with coverage for our testing. Even if our testing is covered by a state Medicaid program, we must be recognized as a Medicaid provider by the state in which the Medicaid recipient receiving the services resides in order for us to be reimbursed by a state's Medicaid program. In addition, many Medicaid programs have entered into agreements with managed care plans to have the managed care plans manage the provision of healthcare to that Medicaid program's beneficiaries; in order for us to enter into contracts to provide our testing services to beneficiaries who are enrolled with a Medicaid managed care plan, we must be recognized as a Medicaid provider in that state. As of March 1, 2018, we are recognized by 46 states as a Medicaid provider. We may not be able to be recognized as a provider by additional Medicaid programs, because some states require that a provider maintain a laboratory in that state in order to be recognized; furthermore, some states have closed provider panels, which means that the state does not intend to expand. 53. Table of Contents. its current provider network and therefore does not intend to recognize additional Medicaid providers. Even if we are recognized as a provide in a state, if Medicare's CLFS rate for our services and tests are low, the Medicaid reimbursement amounts are sometimes as low, or lower, than the Medicare reimbursement rate. In addition, each state's Medicaid program has its own coverage determinations related to our testing, and many state Medicaid programs do not provide their recipients with coverage for our testing. As a result of all of these factors, our testing is not reimbursed or only reimbursed at a very low amount by some state Medicaid programs.  In some cases, a state Medicaid program's reimbursement rate for our testing might be zero dollars. Low or zero dollar Medicaid reimbursement rates for our tests could have an adverse effect on our business and revenues.. Our revenues may be adversely impacted if third-party payers withdraw coverage or provide lower levels of reimbursement due to changing policies, billing complexities or other factors.. We are out of network with some third-party payers from whom we receive reimbursement, which means that we do not have agreements with them that govern approval or payment terms. Therefore, such third-party payers could withdraw coverage and decline to reimburse for our tests in the future, at any time and for any reason. Managing reimbursement on a case-by-case basis is time consuming and contributes to an increase in the number of days it takes us to collect on accounts, and increases our risk of non-payment. Negotiating reimbursement on a case-by-case basis also typically results in the receipt of reimbursement at a significant discount to the list price of our tests.. Further, even if we are under contract with a third-party payer, the contract does not guarantee reimbursement for all testing we perform. For example, many third-party payers with whom we have written agreements typically have policies that state they will not reimburse for use of NIPTs in the average-risk pregnancy population or for the screening of microdeletions, or don't have a policy in place to reimburse for microdeletions screening. In addition, the terms of certain of our agreements require a physician or qualified practitioner's signature on test requisitions or put in place other controls and procedures prior to conducting a test. In particular, third-party payers have been increasingly requiring prior authorization to be obtained prior to conducting a test, as a condition to reimbursing for the test. This has placed a burden on our billing operations as we have had to dedicate resources to ensuring that these requirements are met and to conduct follow-up and address issues as they arise, and has also impacted our results of operations, including our gross margins, in the fourth quarter of 2017, when these requirements began to take effect. To the extent we or the physicians ordering our tests do not follow these requirements, we may be subject to claims for recoupment of reimbursement amounts previously paid to us, or may not receive some or all of the reimbursement payments to which we would otherwise be entitled, which has occurred in some cases and may occur more frequently in the future, and either of which would have an adverse impact on our revenues.. Even if we are being reimbursed for our tests, third-party payers may review and adjust the rate of reimbursement, require co-payments from patients or stop paying for our tests. Government healthcare programs and other third-party payers continue to increase their efforts to control the cost, utilization and delivery of healthcare services by demanding price discounts or rebates and limiting coverage of, and amounts they will pay for, molecular diagnostic tests. These measures have resulted in reduced payment rates and decreased utilization in the clinical laboratory industry. Because of these cost-containment measures, governmental and commercial third-party payers may reduce, suspend, revoke or discontinue payments or coverage at any time. Reduced reimbursement of our tests may harm our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Billing for clinical laboratory testing services is complex. We perform tests in advance of payment and without certainty as to the outcome of the billing process. In cases where we expect to receive a fixed fee per test due to our reimbursement arrangements, we may nevertheless encounter disputes over pricing and billing. Each third-party payer typically has different billing requirements, and the billing requirements of many payers have become increasingly difficult to meet. Among the factors complicating our billing of third-party payers are:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdisparity in coverage among various payers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdisparity in information and billing requirements among payers, including with respect to prior authorization requirements and procedures; and. 54. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincorrect or missing billing information, which is required to be provided by the ordering health care practitioner.. These risks related to billing complexities, and the associated uncertainty in obtaining payment for our tests, could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In the United States, the AMA generally assigns specific billing codes for laboratory tests under a coding system known as Current Procedure Terminology, or CPT, which we and our referring health care providers must use to bill and receive reimbursement for our diagnostic tests. Once the CPT code is established, CMS establishes payment levels and coverage rules under Medicare while private payers establish rates and coverage rules independently. A CPT code specific to NIPT for aneuploidies came into effect in January 2015, and a CPT code for microdeletions came into effect in January 2017. CMS has established a pricing benchmark of $802 for aneuploidy and microdeletions testing. However, our microdeletions reimbursement has decreased under this new code because third-party payers are declining to reimburse under this new code or reimbursing at a much lower rate than we had previously received. Furthermore, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to negotiate favorable rates for this code or receive reimbursement at all if we are unable to collect and publish additional data and obtain positive coverage determinations for Panorama for microdeletions. In addition, the AMA has approved the use of a CPT code for expanded carrier screening tests, which will be published later this year, and may similarly cause our reimbursement rates for our Horizon expanded carrier screening tests to decline. We do not currently have assay-specific CPT codes assigned for all of our tests, and there is a risk that we may not be able to obtain such codes, or if obtained, we may not be able to negotiate favorable rates for such codes. We currently submit for reimbursement using CPT codes based on the guidance of outside legal and coding experts. There is a risk that these codes may be rejected or withdrawn or that third-party payers will seek refunds of amounts that they claim were inappropriately billed based on either the CPT code used, or the number of units billed. In addition, third-party payers may not establish positive coverage policies for our tests or adequately reimburse for any CPT code we may use, or seek recoupment for testing previously performed, which have occurred in the past.. If the FDA were to begin actively regulating our tests, we could incur substantial costs and delays associated with trying to obtain premarket clearance or approval and incur costs associated with complying with post-market controls.. We currently offer a number of prenatal genetic tests, including Panorama, and each of those tests is an LDT. In addition, we currently anticipate initially commercializing our planned Signatera CLIA laboratory test as an LDT. An LDT is generally considered to be a test that is designed, developed, validated and used within a single laboratory. The FDA takes the position that it has the authority to regulate such tests as medical devices under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDC Act, but it has generally exercised enforcement discretion with regard to LDTs. This means that even though the FDA believes it can impose regulatory requirements on LDTs, such as requirements to obtain premarket approval or clearance of LDTs, it has generally chosen not to enforce those requirements to date.. The regulation by the FDA of LDTs remains uncertain. In October 2014, the FDA issued draft guidances outlining its plan to actively regulate LDTs using a risk-based approach. In November 2016, the FDA announced that it no longer plans to finalize the 2014 draft guidances. In January 2017, the FDA issued a discussion paper that laid out elements of a possible revised future LDT regulatory framework, but did not establish any regulatory requirements. The FDA's efforts to regulate LDTs prompted the drafting of legislation governing diagnostic products and services that sought to substantially revamp the regulation of both LDTs and IVDs. Congress may still act to provide further direction to the FDA on the regulation of LDTs.. In the meantime, the FDA could require us to seek premarket clearance or approval to offer our tests for clinical use even before it finalizes any future guidance. If FDA premarket clearance or approval is required, or if we voluntarily pursue FDA clearance or approval, for any of our existing or future tests, we may be forced to stop selling our tests or we may be required to modify claims or make other changes to our tests while we work to obtain FDA clearance or approval. Our business would be adversely affected while such review is ongoing and if we are ultimately unable to obtain premarket clearance or approval. For example, the regulatory premarket clearance or approval process may involve, among other things, successfully completing analytical, pre-clinical and/or clinical studies beyond the studies we have already performed for each of our products and would involve submitting a premarket notification, or 510(k), or filing a PMA application with the FDA. As further described in the risk factor entitled \"If the results of our clinical studies do not support. 55. Table of Contents. the use of our tests, particularly in the average-risk pregnancy population or for microdeletions screening, or cannot be replicated in later studies required for reimbursement by third-party payers and for regulatory approvals or clearances, our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation could be adversely affected,\" completing such studies is requires the expenditure of time, attention and financial and other resources, and may not yield the desired results, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. In addition, we may require cooperation in our filings for FDA approval from third-party manufacturers of the components of our tests. If we are unable to obtain such required cooperation, we may be unable to achieve desired regulatory clearances or approvals, or may be delayed or be required to expend additional costs and other resources in doing so. For example, Illumina currently is our sole sequencer and sequencing reagent supplier. If we seek to achieve regulatory clearance or approval for Panorama, to the extent that Panorama incorporates Illumina's sequencer or sequencing reagents, we may require Illumina's cooperation in demonstrating safety and efficacy with respect to such components of our test. We may face difficulty obtaining cooperation from Illumina because Illumina is the parent company of Verinata, a direct competitor of ours in the NIPT field. Furthermore, if FDA premarket clearance or approval is required, our cash flows may be adversely affected until we obtain such clearance or approval, as most third-party payers, including Medicaid, will not reimburse for use of medical devices which are required to be cleared or approved but which have not been.. We have informed the FDA of our intent to pursue a PMA for Panorama. We cannot assure you that Panorama or any of our other tests for which we pursue or are required to obtain premarket clearance or approval by the FDA will be cleared or approved on a timely basis, if at all. In addition, if a test has been approved through a PMA, certain changes that we may make to improve the test, or as a result of issues with suppliers of the components of the test or if a supplier modifies its component upon which our approval relies, may need to be approved by the FDA before we can implement them, which could increase the time and expense involved in rolling such changes out to the commercial market. Ongoing compliance with FDA regulations would increase the cost of conducting our business and subject us to heightened regulation by the FDA and penalties for failure to comply with these requirements, any of which may adversely impact our business and results of operations.. Furthermore, the FDA or the Federal Trade Commission may object to the materials and methods we use to promote the use of our current tests or other LDTs we may develop in the future, including with respect to the product claims in our promotional materials, and may initiate enforcement actions against us. Enforcement actions by the FDA may include, among others, untitled or warning letters; fines; injunctions; civil or criminal penalties; recall or seizure of current or future tests, products or services; operating restrictions and partial suspension or total shutdown of production.. Failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals in foreign jurisdictions may adversely affect our ability to expand our operations internationally.. An important part of our business strategy is to expand and offer our tests internationally, either by providing our testing services directly or through our laboratory partners, or through our licensees under our Constellation cloud-based distribution model. As we do so, we will become increasingly subject to or impacted by the regulatory requirements of foreign jurisdictions, which are varied and complex. Our tests, and certain components of our tests, may be subject to the regulatory approval requirements in each foreign country in which they are sold by us or a laboratory partner, or by our licensees under our cloud-based distribution model, and our future performance would depend on us or our partners or licensees obtaining any necessary regulatory approvals in a timely manner. For example, while we have obtained a CE Mark from the European Commission for our Constellation software and the key reagents required for our licensees to run their NIPT based on our technology, we have not obtained a CE Mark for our Panorama test as a whole. Therefore, while we are able to offer Constellation in the European Union and other countries that accept a CE Mark, we are unable to offer Panorama as an IVD directly in these jurisdictions. This, coupled with our use of our Panorama brand name under our Constellation model, has caused confusion among the regulatory authorities in some countries in the European Union; to the extent that regulatory authorities believe that we, our laboratory partners or our licensees may be marketing, commercializing or otherwise offering our tests without required approvals, they may raise questions or concerns which, if not addressed to their satisfaction, may result in our being required to cease offering our products, either directly or through our partners or licensees, in the relevant country. This may in turn result in similar concerns, and subsequent cessation of our sources of revenue, in other countries. We have in the past addressed inquiries from regulatory authorities in the European Union regarding the regulatory status of our Panorama offering, and may in the future face questions from regulatory authorities in various countries with respect to Panorama or Constellation.. 56. Table of Contents. Our cloud-based distribution model has caused similar confusion in some countries outside of the European Union; as a result, we have had to address inquiries from international regulatory authorities from time to time, and it is likely that we will continue to do so in the future regarding the regulatory status of Panorama and Constellation. We may also be at a competitive disadvantage in the European Union to our competitors who have obtained a CE Mark for their end to end NIPT. In addition, as further described in the risk factor entitled \"Risks Related to Our Business and Industry - We rely on a limited number of suppliers or, in some cases, single suppliers, for some of our laboratory instruments and materials and may not be able to find replacements or immediately transition to alternative suppliers,\" blood collection tubes sourced solely from Streck are required to run our tests. These blood collection tubes are CE Marked by the European Commission; however, if such blood collection tubes are not registered in jurisdictions that do not accept a CE Mark, we may be unable to expand our business in such jurisdictions.. Regulatory approval can be a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process. In addition, regulatory processes are subject to change, and new or changed regulations can result in unanticipated delays and cost increases. For example, the European Commission has published new directives regulating, among others, IVDs, which are expected to become effective in 2022. The new regulations will require companies providing genetic testing services to obtain a CE Mark for what will be considered IVDs, or a CE-IVD; in addition to requiring notified body approval for various classes of devices, including prenatal tests such as Panorama, companies will also be required to submit clinical evidence and post-market performance data to regulators after their tests have been approved and are commercialized. We or our partners or licensees may not be able to obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all, which may cause us to incur additional costs or prevent us from marketing our tests in foreign countries.. Changes in laws and regulations, or in their application, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The clinical laboratory testing industry is highly regulated, and failure to comply with applicable regulatory, supervisory, accreditation, registration or licensing requirements may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, the laws and regulations governing the marketing and research of clinical diagnostic testing are extremely complex and in many instances there are no clear regulatory or judicial interpretations of these laws and regulations, which increases the risk that we may be found to be in violation of these laws.. Furthermore, the molecular diagnostics industry as a whole is a growing industry and regulatory agencies such as Health and Human Services, or HHS, or the FDA may apply heightened scrutiny to new developments in the field. While we have taken steps to ensure compliance with the current regulatory regime in all material respects, given its nature and our geographical diversity, there could be areas where we are non-compliant. Any change in the laws or regulations relating to our business may require us to implement changes to our business or practices, and we may not be able to do so in a timely or cost-effective manner. Should we be found to be non-compliant with current or future regulatory requirements, we may be subject to sanctions which could include required changes to our operations, adverse publicity, substantial financial penalties and criminal proceedings, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations by increasing our cost of compliance or limiting our ability to develop, market and commercialize our tests.. In addition, there has been a recent trend of increased U.S. federal and state regulation of payments made to physicians, which are governed by laws and regulations including the Stark law. Among other requirements, the Stark law requires laboratories to track, and places a cap on, non-monetary compensation provided to referring physicians.. While we have a compliance plan to address compliance with government laws and regulations, including applicable fraud and abuse laws and regulations such as those described in this risk factor, the evolving commercial compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and scalable systems to comply with regulations in multiple jurisdictions with different compliance and reporting requirements increases the possibility that we could inadvertently violate one or more of these requirements.. 57. Table of Contents. If we fail to comply with federal, state and foreign laboratory licensing requirements, we could lose the ability to perform our tests or experience disruptions to our business.. We are subject to CLIA, a federal law that regulates clinical laboratories that perform testing on specimens derived from humans for the purpose of providing information for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of disease. CLIA regulations require clinical laboratories to obtain a certificate and mandate specific standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration, and participation in proficiency testing, patient test management and quality assurance. CLIA certification is also required in order for us to be eligible to bill state and federal healthcare programs, as well as many private third-party payers, for our tests. To renew these certifications, we are subject to survey and inspection every two years. Moreover, CLIA inspectors may make random inspections of our clinical laboratory.. We are also required to maintain certain state licenses to conduct testing in our laboratories. California law establishes standards for the day-to-day operation of our clinical laboratory in San Carlos, California, including the training and skills required of personnel and quality control matters. We maintain a license in good standing with the California Department of Health Services, or DHS. In addition, we have obtained a license for our San Carlos laboratory from the New York Department of Health, or DOH, which mandates proficiency testing regardless of whether such laboratories are located in New York. If we are found to be out of compliance with either California or New York requirements, DHS or DOH may, among others, suspend, restrict or revoke our license for that state, assess substantial civil monetary penalties, or impose specific corrective action plans. Any such actions could materially and adversely affect our business.. Moreover, some states require that we hold licenses to test samples from patients in those states. We have obtained licenses from states that we believe require us to do so, and we intend to comply with similar requirements that we may become aware of for any other states. However, we cannot assure you that the regulators in each of the states will at all times find us to be in compliance with the applicable laws of their respective state, which may result in suspension, limitation, revocation or annulment of our laboratory's license for that state, censure, or civil monetary penalties, and would result in our inability to test samples from patients in that state.. CMS also has the authority to impose a wide range of sanctions, including revocation of a laboratory's CLIA certification along with a bar on the ownership or operation of any CLIA-certified laboratory by any owners or operators of the deficient laboratory. If we fail to maintain our CLIA certification or any required state license or accreditation, or if any sanction were imposed upon us under CLIA, its implementing regulations, or state or foreign laws or regulations governing licensure, we would not be able to operate our clinical laboratory and offer our testing services in the affected states or countries, which would materially and adversely impact our business and results of operations.. Our cord blood and tissue banking activities are subject to regulations that may impose significant costs and restrictions on us.. Our Evercord cord blood and tissue banking service is subject to FDA regulatory oversight. Pursuant to FDA regulations, an individual or entity that performs any of the manufacturing steps in banking stem cells from peripheral and cord blood (recovery, processing, donor screening, donor testing, storage, labeling, packaging, or distribution) must register with the FDA unless an exception applies. Based on our direct activities, we are subject to FDA requirements and we may be subject to FDA inspection. We have registered with the FDA as an establishment engaged in specific manufacturing steps, including collecting cord blood and tissue samples, donor screening and distribution of cord blood HCPs. We have contracted with Bloodworks, another FDA-registered establishment, to perform other manufacturing steps in the process on our behalf, which we may do as a registered establishment. As the contractor establishment, we remain responsible for ensuring that our subcontractors perform each manufacturing step in compliance with applicable requirements, and are required to terminate any arrangement if our subcontractor is non-compliant. While we are not required to validate and oversee the processes of our subcontractor registered establishments, we are required to make an initial determination that the subcontractor is compliant, and to have policies and procedures in place to ensure that the subcontractor remains compliant throughout the term of the arrangement. We have made this determination with respect to Bloodworks and have put such procedures in place. We are also responsible for any manufacturing step performed on our behalf by an individual or entity that is not required to register with the FDA, such as the doctors and midwives who perform the collection of the cord blood and tissue.. 58. Table of Contents. We are also required to comply with good tissue practice regulations, or GTPs, that establish a comprehensive regulatory program for human cellular and tissue-based products. We believe that we currently comply with GTP standards. However, the FDA may determine that we are not compliant or, even if we are currently compliant, we may not be able to maintain this compliance or comply with future regulatory requirements that may be imposed on us.. In certain states, manufacturing steps in banking stem cells from cord blood and tissue are subject to state licensure or registration and compliance with state requirements. Certain states regulate private cord blood and/or tissue banking activities, and may require us and our subcontractors engaged in specific manufacturing steps to become licensed, permitted or registered in such states. We believe that we are licensed, permitted or registered to operate in such states as required. If other states adopt similar requirements, we would have to obtain licenses, permits or registrations to continue providing services in those states.. Changes in government healthcare policy could increase our costs and negatively impact coverage and reimbursement for our tests by governmental and other third-party payers.. The U.S. government has shown significant interest in pursuing healthcare reform and reducing healthcare costs. Government healthcare policy has been and will likely continue to be a topic of extensive legislative and executive activity in the U.S. federal government and many U.S. state governments. As a result, our business could be affected by significant and potentially unanticipated changes in government healthcare policy, such as changes in reimbursement levels by government third-party payers. Any of these or other changes could substantially impact our revenues, increase costs and divert management attention from our business strategy. Going forward, we cannot predict the full impact of governmental healthcare policy changes on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In the United States, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, or collectively, the PPACA, was signed into law in March 2010 and significantly impacts the U.S. pharmaceutical and medical device industries, including the diagnostics sector, in a number of ways. Among other things, the PPACA expanded health care fraud and abuse laws such as the False Claims Act and the Anti-Kickback Statute, including required disclosures of financial arrangements with physician customers, lower thresholds for violations, new government investigative powers, and enhanced penalties for such violations. The PPACA restricts insurers from charging higher premiums or denying coverage to individuals with pre-existing conditions, and requires insurers to cover certain preventative services without charging any copayment or coinsurance, including screening for lung, breast, colorectal and cervical cancers. The PPACA also created a new system of health insurance \"exchanges,\" designed to make health insurance available to individuals and certain groups through state- or federally-administered marketplaces in addition to existing channels for obtaining health insurance coverage. In connection with such exchanges, certain \"essential health benefits\" are intended to be made more consistent across plans, setting a baseline coverage level. The states (and the federal government) have some discretion in determining the definition of \"essential health benefits\" and we do not know whether Panorama or our other tests will fall into a benefit category deemed \"essential\" for coverage purposes across the plans offered in any or all of the exchanges. If Panorama or any of our other tests are not covered by plans offered in the health insurance exchanges, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Furthermore, there have been a number of proposed legislative initiatives with respect to the PPACA, including possible repeal of the PPACA. These attempts have resulted in considerable uncertainty and concern regarding, for example, electing to undergo genetic screening and whether doing so may impact health insurance eligibility. Because it is unclear whether or not, or how, the PPACA may change, and whether and to what extent NIPT, cancer screening or other genetic screening may be affected, we are uncertain how our business may be impacted.. In addition to the PPACA, various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged from federal and state governments. The Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014, or PAMA, introduced a multi-year pricing program for services payable under the CLFS that is designed to bring Medicare allowable amounts in line with the amounts paid by private payers. The rule issued by CMS to implement PAMA required certain laboratories to report third-party payer rates and test volumes. Since January 1, 2018, the Medicare payment rate for these tests are equal to the weighted median private payer rate reported to CMS, which for many tests are lower than the previous CLFS payment rates due to the often lower negotiated private payer rates applicable to large commercial laboratories that were required to report data to CMS. While we believe that the new rates will have minimal impact on our business, the rates have been the subject of controversy in the industry, and it is unclear whether and to what extent the new rates will affect overall pricing and reimbursement for. 59. Table of Contents. clinical laboratory testing services. In addition, federal budgetary limitations and changes in healthcare policy, such as the creation of broad limits for our tests or requirements that beneficiaries of government health plans pay for, or pay for higher, portions of clinical laboratory tests or services received, could substantially diminish the utilization of our tests, increase costs and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and achieve profitability.. We cannot predict whether future healthcare initiatives will be implemented at the federal or state level or how any such future legislation, regulation or initiative may affect us. Current or potential future federal legislation and the expansion of government's role in the U.S. healthcare industry, as well as changes to the reimbursement amounts paid by payers for our current and future tests, may adversely affect our test volumes and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. If we or our laboratory distribution partners, consultants or commercial partners act in a manner that violates healthcare fraud and abuse laws or otherwise engage in misconduct, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties.. We are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulation and enforcement by both the U.S. federal government and the states in which we conduct our business, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tHIPAA, which created federal civil and criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters and also imposes significant obligations with respect to maintenance of the privacy and security, and transmission, of individually identifiable health information;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfederal and state laws and regulations governing informed consents for genetic testing and the use of genetic material;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tstate laws and regulations governing the submission of claims, as well as billing and collection practices, for healthcare services;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, the knowing and willful solicitation, receipt, offer or payment of remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as Medicare;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe federal False Claims Act which prohibits, among other things, the presentation of false or fraudulent claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other government-funded third-party payers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfederal laws and regulations governing the Medicare program, providers of services covered by the Medicare program, and the submission of claims to the Medicare program, as well as the Medicare Manuals issued by CMS and the local medical policies promulgated by the Medicare Administrative Contractors with respect to the implementation and interpretation of such laws and regulations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe federal Stark physician self-referral law, which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits a physician from making a referral for certain designated health services covered by the Medicare program (and according to case law in some jurisdictions, the Medicaid program as well), including laboratory and pathology services, if the physician or an immediate family member has a financial relationship with the entity providing the designated health services;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe federal Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits, among other things, the offer or transfer of remuneration to a Medicare or state healthcare program beneficiary if the person knows or should know it is likely to influence the beneficiary's selection of a particular provider, practitioner or supplier of services reimbursable by Medicare or a state healthcare program;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe prohibition on reassignment by the program beneficiary of Medicare claims to any party; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tstate law equivalents of the above U.S. federal laws, such as the Stark law and anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payer, including commercial insurers, and state data privacy and security laws.. 60. Table of Contents. Furthermore, a development affecting our industry is the increased enforcement of the federal False Claims Act and, in particular, actions brought pursuant to the False Claims Act's \"whistleblower\" or \"qui tam\" provisions. The False Claims Act imposes liability for, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment by a federal governmental payer program. The qui tam provisions of the False Claims Act allow a private individual to bring civil actions on behalf of the federal government for violations of the False Claims Act and permit such individuals to share in any amounts paid by the defendant to the government in fines or settlement. When an entity is determined to have violated the False Claims Act, it is subject to mandatory damages of three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties of up to approximately $22,000 for each false claim. In addition, various states have enacted false claim laws analogous to the federal False Claims Act, and in some cases go even further because many of these state laws apply where a claim is submitted to any third-party payer and not merely a governmental payer program. As described further in Note 6 - Commitments and Contingencies - Legal Proceedings in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we have recently reached a settlement with the United States Department of Justice to resolve claims under a qui tam complaint regarding past reimbursement submissions; although the settlement involved no admission of fault by us and no corporate integrity agreement, we cannot guarantee that we will not be subject to similar claims in the future.. Many of these laws and regulations have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. We have adopted policies and procedures designed to comply with these laws, and in the ordinary course of our business, we conduct internal reviews of our compliance with these laws. However, the rapid growth and expansion of our business both within and outside of the United States may increase the potential for violating these laws or our internal policies and procedures, and the uncertainty around the interpretation of these laws and regulations increases the risk that we may be found in violation of these or other laws and regulations, or of allegations of such violations, including pursuant to private qui tam actions brought by individual whistleblowers in the name of the government as described above. If our operations, including the conduct of our employees, distributors, consultants and commercial partners, are found to be in violation of any laws or regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, disgorgement of profits, exclusion from participation in government programs, injunctions, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, denial or withdrawal of pre-marketing product approvals, contractual damages, reputational harm, diminished profits and future earnings and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Failure to comply with privacy and security laws and regulations could result in fines, penalties and damage to our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business.. The federal HIPAA privacy and security regulations, including the expanded requirements under the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH, which was enacted as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, establish comprehensive federal standards with respect to the use and disclosure of protected health information by health plans, health care providers, and health care clearinghouses, in addition to setting standards to protect the confidentiality, integrity and security of protected health information. The regulations establish a complex regulatory framework on a variety of subjects, including patient authorization of the use and disclosure of, administrative, technical and physical safeguards for, and analysis of security incidents and breach notification requirements with respect to, protected health information.. We have implemented policies and procedures related to compliance with the HIPAA regulations. The privacy and security regulations establish minimum requirements, and do not supersede state laws that are more stringent. Therefore, we are required to comply with federal as well as various state privacy and security laws and regulations. HIPAA, as amended by HITECH, provides for significant fines and other penalties for wrongful use or disclosure of protected health information in violation of privacy and security regulations, including potential civil and criminal fines and penalties. We could also incur damages under state laws pursuant to an action brought by a private party for the wrongful use or disclosure of confidential health information or other private personal information. In addition, other federal and state laws that protect the privacy and security of patient information may be subject to enforcement and interpretation by various governmental authorities and courts, resulting in complex compliance issues.. 61. Table of Contents. The European Union's new data privacy regulations, the GDPR, will become subject to enforcement in May 2018. These regulations comprehensively reform the prior data protection rules of the European Union, and are more stringent, provide for higher potential liabilities, and apply to a broader range of personal data than those in the United States. The GDPR is applicable to U.S.-based companies, such as ours, that do business or offer services in, or that process or hold personal data of data subjects in, the European Union. Our current processes and practices do not comply with the GDPR, and we will need to expend considerable time and resources, including management attention, to revise our practices and bring them into compliance. Furthermore, the GDPR enables EU member states to enact jurisdiction-specific requirements in key areas, which could require us to modify our plans to comply with the GDPR, or otherwise to implement multiple policies unique to the jurisdictions in which we operate, which could make it more difficult and resource-intensive to continue to operate in the European Union.. As we continue to expand and grow our business, our overall compliance with applicable laws and regulations may result in increased costs and attention of management, and failure to comply may result in significant fines, penalties and damage to our reputation. Additionally, the interpretation and application of health-related, privacy and data protection laws are often uncertain, contradictory and in flux, and it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our practices. As a result, we could be subject to government-imposed fines or orders requiring that we change our practices, which could cause us to incur substantial costs and may adversely affect our business and our reputation.. Changes in the way the FDA regulates the reagents, other consumables, and testing equipment we use when developing, validating, and performing our tests could result in delay or additional expense in bringing our tests to market or performing such tests for our customers.. Many of the sequencers, reagents, kits and other consumable products used to perform our testing, as well as the instruments and other capital equipment that enable the testing, are offered for sale as analyte specific reagents, or ASRs, or for research use only, or RUO. In addition, we have recently launched Signatera (RUO) as a research use only offering. ASRs are medical devices and must comply with QSR provisions and other device requirements, but most are exempt from 510(k) and PMA premarket review. Products that are intended for research use only and are labeled as RUO are exempt from compliance with FDA requirements, including the approval or clearance and other product quality requirements for medical devices. A product labeled RUO but which is actually intended for clinical diagnostic use may be viewed by the FDA as adulterated and misbranded under the FDC Act and subject to FDA enforcement action. The FDA has said that when determining the intended use of a product labeled RUO, it will consider the totality of the circumstances surrounding distribution and use of the product, including how the product is marketed and to whom. The FDA could disagree with a supplier's assessment that the supplier's products are ASRs, or could conclude that products labeled as RUO are actually intended for clinical diagnostic use, and could take enforcement action against the supplier, such as us with respect to Signatera (RUO), including requiring the supplier to cease offering the product while it seeks clearance or approval. Suppliers of RUO products that we employ in our other tests may cease selling their respective products, and we may be unable to obtain an acceptable substitute on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could significantly and adversely affect our ability to provide timely testing results to our customers or could significantly increase our costs of conducting business.. The sequencers and reagents supplied to us by Illumina and the blood collection tubes supplied to us by Streck are labeled as RUO in the United States. We are using these sequencers, reagents and blood collection tubes for clinical diagnostic use. If the FDA were to require clearance or approval for the sale of Illumina's sequencers and if Illumina does not obtain such clearance or approval, we would have to find an alternative sequencing platform for Panorama. We currently have not validated an alternative sequencing platform on which Panorama could be run in a commercially viable manner. If we were not successful in selecting, acquiring on commercially reasonable terms and implementing an alternative platform on a timely basis, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Similarly, a decision by the FDA to require clearance or approval for the sale by Streck of the blood collection tubes used for Panorama, or a finding that any of our other suppliers failed to comply with applicable requirements, could result in interruptions in our ability to supply our products to the market and adversely affect our operations.. 62. Table of Contents. Our use of hazardous materials in the development of our tests exposes us to risks related to accidental contamination or injury and requires us to comply with regulations governing hazardous waste materials.. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials and chemicals. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury to employees or third parties from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could exceed our resources or any applicable insurance coverage we may have. In addition, we are subject on an ongoing basis to federal, state and local regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specified hazardous waste materials. An increase in the costs of compliance with such laws and regulations could harm our business and results of operations.. If the validity of an informed consent from a patient intake for Panorama or our other tests is challenged, we could be precluded from billing for such testing or forced to stop performing such tests, which would adversely affect our business and financial results.. All clinical data and blood samples that we receive are required to have been collected from individuals who have provided appropriate informed consent for us to perform our testing, both commercially and in clinical trials. We seek to ensure that the individuals from whom the data and samples are collected do not retain or have conferred on them any proprietary or commercial rights to the data or any discoveries derived from them. Our partners operate in a number of different countries in addition to the United States, and, to a large extent, we rely upon them to comply with the individual's informed consent and with U.S. and international laws and regulations. The collection of data and samples in many different countries results in complex legal questions regarding the adequacy of informed consent and the status of genetic material under a large number of different legal systems. The individual's informed consent obtained in any particular country could be challenged in the future, and those informed consents could be deemed invalid, unlawful or otherwise inadequate for our purposes. Any findings against us, or our partners, could deny us access to, or force us to stop testing samples in, a particular country or could call into question the results of our clinical trials. We could also be precluded from billing third-party payers for tests for which informed consents are challenged, or could be requested to refund amounts previously paid by third-party payers for such tests. We could become involved in legal challenges, which could require significant management and financial resources and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. Third-party claims of intellectual property infringement could result in litigation or other proceedings, which would be costly and time-consuming, and could limit our ability to commercialize our products or services.. Our success depends in part on our non-infringement of the patents or intellectual property rights of third parties. Certain third parties, including our competitors, have asserted and may in the future assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization or that we are otherwise infringing their intellectual property rights. For example, we are presently aware of at least one instance in which a competitor has asserted to us and to third parties that it has an issued patent that covers one or more of our tests in the United States; while this competitor has not filed any patent infringement action based on this assertion, such an action could be brought at any time. Defending against infringement claims is costly and may divert the attention of our management and technical personnel. If we are unsuccessful in defending against patent infringement claims, we could be required to stop developing or commercializing products or services; pay potentially substantial monetary damages; and/or obtain licenses from third parties, which we may be unable to do on acceptable terms, if at all, and which may require us to make substantial royalty payments. In addition, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative non-infringing products. Any of these or other adverse outcomes could prevent us from offering our tests, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and our results of operations.. We operate in a crowded technology area in which there has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the genetic diagnostics industry. We have in the past and may also in the future be involved with intellectual property litigation or patent office actions. For example, we were recently engaged in patent litigation with Sequenom. The number of contested intellectual property proceedings may increase as the number of products and the level of competition in our industry segments grows.. 63. Table of Contents. As we move into new markets and applications for our products, competitors in such markets may assert their patents and other proprietary rights against us as a means of blocking or slowing our entry into such markets or as a means to extract substantial license and royalty payments from us. Our competitors and others may have significantly stronger, larger and/or more mature patent portfolios than we have. In addition, future litigation may involve patent holding companies or other patent owners or licensees who have no relevant product revenues and against whom our own patents may provide little or no deterrence or protection.. In addition, our agreements with some of our customers, suppliers, and other entities with whom we do business require us to defend or indemnify these parties to the extent they become involved in infringement claims, including the types of claims described above. We could also voluntarily agree to defend or indemnify third parties if we determine it to be in the best interests of our business relationships. If we are required or agree to defend or indemnify third parties in connection with any infringement claims, we could incur significant costs and expenses that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Any inability to effectively protect our proprietary technologies could harm our competitive position.. Our success and ability to compete depend to a large extent on our ability to develop proprietary products and technologies and to maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property in the United States and other countries. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant challenges in establishing and enforcing their proprietary rights outside of the United States. These challenges can be caused by the absence of rules and methods for the establishment and enforcement of intellectual property rights outside of the United States. In addition, the proprietary positions of companies developing and commercializing tools for molecular diagnostics, including ours, generally are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. This uncertainty may materially affect our ability to defend or obtain patents or to address the patents and patent applications owned or controlled by our collaborators and licensors.. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. Any finding that our patents or patent applications are unenforceable could harm our ability to prevent others from practicing the related technology. We cannot be certain that we were the first to invent the inventions covered by pending patent applications or that we were the first to file such applications, and a finding that others have claims of inventorship or ownership rights to our patents and applications could require us to obtain certain rights to practice related technologies, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. In addition, our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing similar or alternative competing products or design around our patented technologies, and may therefore fail to provide us with any competitive advantage. Furthermore, as our issued patents expire, we may lose some competitive advantage as others develop competing products that would have been covered by the expired patents, and, as a result, we may lose revenue.. We may be required to file infringement lawsuits to protect our interests, which can be expensive and time consuming. We cannot assure you that we would be successful in proving any such infringement by a third party, and we may become subject to counterclaims by such third parties. Our patents may be declared invalid or unenforceable, or narrowed in scope, as a result of such litigation. Some third-party infringers may have substantially greater resources than us and may be able to sustain the costs of complex infringement litigation more effectively than we can. Even if we prevail in an infringement action, we cannot assure you that we would be fully or partially financially compensated for any harm to our business. We may be forced to enter into a license or other agreement with the infringing third party on terms less profitable or otherwise less commercially acceptable to us than those negotiated between a willing licensee and a willing licensor. Any inability to stop third-party infringement could result in loss in market share of some of our products or lead to a delay, reduction and/or inhibition of our development, manufacture or sale of some of our products. A product produced and sold by a third-party infringer may not meet our or other regulatory standards or may not be safe for use, which could cause irreparable harm to the reputation of our products, which in turn could result in substantial loss in our market share and profits.. There is also the risk that others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies, and our competitors or others may have filed, and may in the future file, conflicting patent. 64. Table of Contents. claims covering technology similar or identical to ours. The costs associated with challenging conflicting patent claims could be substantial, and it is possible that our efforts would be unsuccessful and may result in a loss of our patent position and the issuance or validation of the competing claims. Should such competing claims cover our technology, we could be required to obtain rights to those claims at substantial cost. Certain of our intellectual property was partly supported by a U.S. government grant awarded by the National Institutes of Health, and the government accordingly has certain rights in this intellectual property, including a non-exclusive, non-transferable, irrevocable worldwide license to use applicable inventions for any governmental purpose. Such rights also include \"march-in\" rights, which refer to the right of the U.S. government to require us to grant a license to the technology to a responsible applicant if we fail to achieve practical application of the technology or if action is necessary to alleviate health or safety needs, to meet requirements of federal regulations or to give preference to U.S. industry.. Any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to obtain commercially relevant or competitively advantageous patent protection for our products.. If we are not able to adequately protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, the value of our technology and products could be significantly diminished.. We rely on trade secret protection and proprietary know-how protection for our confidential and proprietary information, and we have taken security measures to protect this information. These measures, however, may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how, or other confidential information. For example, although we have a policy of requiring our consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements and our employees to enter into invention, non-disclosure and non-compete agreements, we cannot assure you that such agreements will provide for a meaningful protection of our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure of information, including as a result of breaches of our physical or electronic security systems, or as a result of our employees failing to abide by their confidentiality obligations during or upon termination of their employment with us. Any action to enforce our rights is likely to be time consuming and expensive, and may ultimately be unsuccessful, or may result in a remedy that is not commercially valuable. These risks are heightened in countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect proprietary rights as fully as in the United States or Europe. Any unauthorized use or disclosure of, or access to, our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information, whether accidentally or through willful misconduct, could have a material adverse effect on our programs and our strategy, and on our ability to compete effectively.. If our trademarks and trade names are not adequately protected, we may not be able to build name recognition in our markets of interest, and our business may be adversely affected.. Failure to maintain our trademark registrations, or to obtain new trademark registrations in the future, could limit our ability to protect our trademarks and impede our marketing efforts in the countries in which we operate. We may not be able to protect our rights to trademarks and trade names which we may need to build name recognition with potential partners or customers in our markets of interest. As a means to enforce our trademark rights and prevent infringement, we may be required to file trademark claims against third parties or initiate trademark opposition proceedings. This can be expensive, particularly for a company of our size, and time-consuming, and we may not be successful. Our registered or unregistered trademarks or trade names may be challenged, infringed, circumvented, declared generic or determined to be infringing on other marks.. Our pending trademark applications in the United States and in other foreign jurisdictions where we may file may not be allowed or may subsequently be opposed. Even if these applications result in registration of trademarks, third parties may challenge our use or registration of these trademarks in the future. Over the long term, if we are unable to establish name recognition based on our trademarks and trade names, then we may not be able to compete effectively and our business may be adversely affected.. 65. Table of Contents. We may be subject to claims that our employees, consultants or independent contractors have wrongfully used or disclosed confidential information of third parties.. We employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or diagnostic companies. We may be subject to claims that we or our employees, consultants or independent contractors have inadvertently or willfully used or disclosed confidential information of our employees' former employers or other third parties. We may also be subject to claims that our employees' former employers or other third parties have an ownership interest in our patents. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims, and if we are unsuccessful, we could be required to pay substantial damages and could lose rights to important intellectual property. Even if we are successful, litigation could result in substantial costs to us and could divert the time and attention of our management and other employees.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. The market price of our common stock has been and may be volatile which could subject us to litigation.. The trading prices of the securities of life sciences companies, including ours, have been and may continue to be highly volatile. Accordingly, the market price of our common stock is likely to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, such as those in this \"Risk Factors\" section and others including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactual or anticipated variations in our and our competitors' results of operations, as well as how those results compare to analyst and investor expectations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tannouncements by us or our competitors of new products, significant acquisitions, strategic and commercial partnerships and relationships, joint ventures, collaborations or capital commitments;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in reimbursement practices by current or potential payers; for example, third-party payers are increasingly requiring that prior authorization be obtained prior to conducting genetic testing as a condition to reimbursing for it, which has reduced and/or delayed the reimbursement amounts we receive for Panorama or our other tests, which impacted our results of operations in the fourth quarter of 2017, when these requirements began to take effect;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfailure of analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of our company, issuance of new securities analysts' reports or changed recommendations for our stock;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tforward-looking statements related to our financial guidance or projections, our failure to meet or exceed our financial guidance or projections or changes in our financial guidance or projections;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tperiodic fluctuations in our revenue, due in part to the way in which we recognized revenue prior to transitioning to accrual accounting under ASC 606;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactual or anticipated changes in regulatory oversight of our products;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdevelopments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcommencement of, or our involvement in, litigation;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tannouncement or expectation of additional debt or equity financing efforts;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsales of our common stock by us, our insiders or our other stockholders;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tany major change in our management; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgeneral economic conditions and slow or negative growth of our markets.. In addition, if the market for life sciences stocks or the stock market in general experiences uneven investor confidence, the market price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. The market price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies within, or outside, our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. Some companies that have. 66. Table of Contents. experienced volatility in the trading price of their stock have been the subject of securities class action litigation. For example, as described Note 6 - Commitments and Contingencies - Legal Proceedings\" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, a purported securities class action lawsuit had been filed against us, our directors and certain of our officers and stockholders. Under certain circumstances, we have contractual and other legal obligations to indemnify and to incur legal expenses on behalf of current and former directors and officers, and on behalf of our current or former underwriters, in connection with the litigation described in Note 6 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and in connection with any future lawsuits. Any lawsuit to which we are a party, with or without merit, may result in an unfavorable judgment. We also may decide to settle lawsuits on unfavorable terms. Any such negative outcome could result in payments of substantial damages or fines, damage to our reputation or adverse changes to our offerings or business practices. Defending against litigation is costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management's attention and resources. Furthermore, during the course of litigation, there could be negative public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments, which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. As a public company, we will continue to incur significantly increased costs and devote substantial management time.. As a public company, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. For example, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and are required to comply with the applicable requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, as well as rules and regulations subsequently implemented by the SEC and the Nasdaq Global Select Market, including the establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and changes in corporate governance practices. We expect that compliance with these requirements will continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time consuming and costly. Our management and other personnel have limited experience managing a public company and preparing public filings. In addition, we expect that our management and other personnel will need to divert attention from operational and other business matters to devote substantial time to these public company requirements. In particular, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant expenses and devote substantial management effort toward ensuring compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which will increase when we are no longer an emerging growth company, as defined by the Jumpstart Our Businesses Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act. We hired, and we expect that we will need to continue to hire, additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge and may need to establish an internal audit function. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur as a public company or the timing of such costs. Additional compensation costs and any future equity awards will increase our compensation expense, which would increase our general and administrative expense and could adversely affect our profitability. Also, as a public company it is more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance on reasonable terms. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified people to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers.. We are an emerging growth company and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an emerging growth company. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption from new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, we will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies.. For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we intend to take advantage of certain other exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies including, but not limited to, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We cannot predict whether investors will find our common stock less attractive because we rely on these exemptions, which could result in a less active trading market for our common stock and increased volatility in our stock price.. 67. Table of Contents. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of (a) the end of the fiscal year (i) following the fifth anniversary of the closing of our IPO, or December 31, 2020, (ii) in which the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million and (iii) in which we have total annual gross revenues of $1 billion or more during such fiscal year, and (b) the date on which we issue more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt in a three-year period.. If we are unable to implement and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting in the future, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected.. As a public company, we are required to maintain internal controls over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in such internal controls. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and provide a management report on internal controls over financial reporting. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act also requires that our management report on internal controls over financial reporting be attested to by our independent registered public accounting firm, to the extent we are no longer an emerging growth company. We do not expect to have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to our management report on internal controls over financial reporting for so long as we are an emerging growth company.. Although we have determined that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2017, we must continue to monitor and assess our internal controls over financial reporting. If we have a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting, we may not detect errors on a timely basis and our financial statements may be materially misstated. If we identify material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, if we are unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, if we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, or, when required in the future, if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected, and we could become subject to investigations by the stock exchange on which our securities are listed, the SEC, or other regulatory authorities.. We do not intend to pay dividends on our capital stock so any returns will be limited to changes in the value of our common stock.. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. In addition, our ability to pay cash dividends on our capital stock may be prohibited or limited by the terms of any current or future debt financing arrangement. Any return to stockholders will therefore be limited to the increase, if any, in the price of our common stock.. Future sales and issuances of our common stock or rights to purchase common stock, including pursuant to our equity incentive plans, could result in additional dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders and could cause the price of our common stock to decline.. In the future, we may issue additional securities or sell common stock, convertible securities or other equity securities in one or more transactions at prices and in a manner we determine from time to time. We also expect to issue common stock to employees and directors pursuant to our equity incentive plans. If we sell common stock, convertible securities or other equity securities in subsequent transactions, or common stock is issued pursuant to equity incentive plans, investors may be materially diluted. New investors in such subsequent transactions could gain rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets could cause the price of our common stock to decline.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or the perception that these sales might occur could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through. 68. Table of Contents. the sale of additional equity securities. We are unable to predict the effect that sales may have on the prevailing market price of our common stock.. Certain holders of shares of our common stock are entitled to rights with respect to the registration of their shares under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in the shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act, except for shares held by our affiliates as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Any sales of securities by these stockholders could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.. We may issue our shares of common stock or securities convertible into our common stock from time to time in connection with a financing, acquisition, investments or otherwise. Any such issuance could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and cause the trading price of our common stock to decline.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. Currently, only a small number of securities analysts cover our stock. If more analysts do not commence coverage of us, or if industry analysts cease coverage of us or fail to publish reports on us regularly, the trading price for our common stock could be adversely affected. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our common stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our common stock price would likely decline.. Insiders have substantial control over us and will be able to influence corporate matters.. As of December 31, 2017, our directors and executive officers and their affiliates beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 44.2% of our outstanding capital stock. As a result, these stockholders will be able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. This concentration of ownership could limit stockholders' ability to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control over us.. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the market price of our common stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could depress the market price of our common stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions, among other things:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tauthorize the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock that our board of directors could use to implement a stockholder rights plan;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\teliminate the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\testablish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at annual stockholder meetings;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\testablish a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board are elected at one time;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpermit the board of directors to establish the number of directors;. 69. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprovide that directors may only be removed \"for cause\" and only with the approval of 75% of our stockholders;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequire super-majority voting to amend some provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprovide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our amended and restated bylaws.. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Section 203 imposes certain restrictions on merger, business combinations and other transactions between us and holders of 15% or more of our common stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, any action asserting a breach of fiduciary duty, any action asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law or any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees and may discourage these types of lawsuits. Alternatively, if a court were to find the choice of forum provision contained in our certificate of incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
