[1] "Item 1A. \t\t\tRisk Factors.. Our business is subject to various risks. Certain risks are specific to each way we do business, such as through Company-owned restaurants, franchised restaurants, branded products and retail, while other risks, such as health-related or economic risks, may affect all of the ways that we do business.. Investors should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this Form 10-K, including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in any of the Company’s securities. The following risk factors are not exhaustive. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company may also adversely impact its business. The Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. In that case, the trading price of the Company’s common stock could decline. This Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The Company’s results could materially differ from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks it faces described below and elsewhere. See “Forward-Looking Statements” above.. Our licensing revenue and overall profitability is substantially dependent on our agreement with John Morrell & Co. and the loss or a significant reduction of this revenue would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We earned license royalties from John Morrell of approximately $19,445,000 in fiscal 2018 and approximately $17,073,000 in fiscal 2017 representing 18.7% and 17.7% of total revenues, respectively. As a result of our agreement with John Morrell, we expect that most of our license revenues will be earned from John Morrell for the foreseeable future. In addition, the increase in our adjusted EBITDA from $28.3 million in fiscal 2017 to $29.1 million in fiscal 2018 was primarily the result of an increase in license royalties earned from John Morrell. While our agreement with John Morrell expires in 2032, John Morrell’s BPP business is weighted towards one high volume user who has not sold product pursuant to a formal agreement. Accordingly, in the event that (i) John Morrell or its customers experience financial difficulties, (ii) there is a disruption or termination of the John Morrell Agreement or (iii) there is a significant decrease in our revenue from John Morrell, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. A significant amount of our Branded Product Program (“BPP”) revenue is from a small number of BPP accounts. The loss of any one or more of those BPP accounts could harm our profitability and operating results.. For the fiscal 2018 period, approximately 79% of our BPP business is from seven accounts, including one account representing approximately 32% of the BPP business, with which we have relatively short-term contracts. In the event that these BPP customers experience financial difficulties or, upon the expiration of their existing agreements are not willing to do business with us in the future on terms acceptable to management, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Increases in the cost of food and paper products could harm our profitability and operating results.. The cost of the food and paper products we use depends on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Food and paper products typically represent approximately 25% to 30% of our cost of restaurant sales. We purchase large quantities of beef and our beef costs in the United States represent approximately 80% to 90% of our food costs. The market for beef is particularly volatile and is subject to significant price fluctuations due to seasonal shifts, climate conditions, industry demand and other factors beyond our control. For several years prior to June 2015, reduced supply and increased demand in beef resulted in shortages, which required us to pay significantly higher prices for the beef we purchased. Since June 2015, beef prices have significantly declined. Accordingly, the market price of hot dogs during the fiscal 2016 period was approximately 7.1% lower than the period ended March 27, 2015 and was approximately 17.1% lower during the fiscal 2017 period than the fiscal 2016 period. The market price for hot dogs during our fiscal 2018 period was approximately 6.9% higher than the fiscal 2017 period. We are unable to predict the future cost of our hot dogs and expect to experience price volatility for our beef products during fiscal 2019. To the extent that beef prices increase as compared to earlier periods, it could impact our results of operations. If the price of beef or other food products that we use in our operations significantly increases, particularly in the BPP, and we choose not to pass, or cannot pass, these increases on to our customers, our operating margins will decrease and such decrease in operating margins could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. 19. John Morrell currently has three manufacturing facilities producing different Nathan’s products and a long-term significant interruption of a primary facility could potentially disrupt our operations.. John Morrell currently has three manufacturing facilities producing different Nathan’s products. A temporary closure of any of the three plants could potentially cause a temporary disruption to our source of supply, potentially causing some or all of certain shipments to customers to be delayed. A longer-term significant interruption at any of these production facilities, whether as a result of a natural disaster or other causes, could significantly impair our ability to operate our business on a day-to-day basis while John Morrell determines how to make up for any lost production capabilities, during which time we may not be able to secure sufficient alternative sources of supply on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, a long-term disruption in supply to our customers could cause our customers to determine not to purchase some or all of their hot dogs from us in the future, which in turn would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, a supply disruption or other events such as the discovery in May 2017 that a limited number of packages of Nathan’s hot dogs had visible metal flakes between the hot dogs and the packaging film might affect our brand in the eyes of consumers and the retail trade, which damage might negatively impact our overall business in general, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. The loss of one or more of our key suppliers could lead to supply disruptions, increased costs and lower operating results.. We have historically relied on one supplier for the majority of our hot dogs and another supplier for a majority of our supply of frozen French fries for our restaurant system. An interruption in the supply of product from either of these suppliers without our obtaining an alternative source of supply on comparable terms could lead to supply disruptions, increased costs and lower operating results.. We have an agreement with a secondary hot dog manufacturer that continues to also supply natural casing hot dogs for our restaurant business. Additionally, a majority of the frozen crinkle-cut French fries sold through our franchised restaurants have been obtained from one supplier. Beginning in fiscal 2013, we began a relationship with a secondary source of supply of our frozen French fries for our restaurant system.. In the event that the hot dog or French fry suppliers are unable to fulfill our requirements for any reason, including due to a significant interruption in its manufacturing operations, whether as a result of a natural disaster or for other reasons, such interruption could significantly impair our ability to operate our business on a day-to-day basis.. In the event that we are unable to find one or more alternative suppliers of hot dogs or French fries on a timely basis, there could be a disruption in the supply of product to Company-owned restaurants, franchised restaurants and BPP accounts, which would damage our business, our franchisees and our BPP customers and, in turn, negatively impact our financial results. In addition, any gap in supply to retail customers would result in lost royalty payments to us, which could have a significant adverse financial impact on our results of operations. Furthermore, any gap in supply to retail customers may damage our brand in the eyes of consumers and the retail trade, which damage might negatively impact our overall business in general and impair our ability to continue our retail licensing program.. Additionally, there is no assurance that any supplemental sources of supply would be capable of meeting our specifications and quality standards on a timely and consistent basis or that the financial terms of such supply arrangement will be as favorable as our present terms with our hot dog or French fry supplier, as the case may be.. Any of the foregoing occurrences may cause disruptions in the supply of our hot dog or French fry products, as the case may be, damage our franchisees and our BPP customers, adversely impact our financial results and/or damage our brand.. 20. Our earnings and business growth strategy depends in large part on the success of our product licensees and product manufacturers. Our reputation and the reputation of our brand may be harmed by actions taken by our product licensees or product manufacturers that are otherwise outside of our control.. A significant portion of our earnings has come from royalties paid by our product licensees such as John Morrell & Co., Saratoga Food Specialties, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of John Morrell & Co., Lamb Weston, Inc., and Perfection Foods. Although our agreements with these licensees contain numerous controls and safeguards, and we monitor the operations of our product licensees, our licensees are independent contractors, and their employees are not our employees. Accordingly, we cannot necessarily control the performance of our licensees under their license agreements, including without limitation, the licensee’s continued best efforts to manufacture our products for retail distribution and our foodservice businesses, timely delivery of the licensed products, market the licensed products and assure the quality of the licensed products produced and/or sold by a product licensee. Any shortcoming in the quality, quantity and/or timely delivery of a licensed product is likely to be attributed by consumers to an entire brand’s reputation, potentially adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, a licensee’s failure to effectively market the licensed products may result in decreased sales, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Also, to the extent that the terms and conditions of any of these license agreements change or we change any of our product licensees, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially affected.. The quick-service restaurant business is highly competitive, and that competition could lower revenues, margins and market share.. The quick-service restaurant business of the foodservice industry is intensely competitive regarding price, service, location, personnel and type and quality of food. We and our franchisees compete with international, national, regional and local retailers primarily through the quality, variety and value perception of food products offered. Other key competitive factors include the number and location of restaurants, quality and speed of service, attractiveness of facilities, effectiveness of advertising and marketing programs, and new product development. We anticipate competition will continue to focus on pricing. Many of our competitors have substantially larger marketing budgets, which may provide them with a competitive advantage. Changes in pricing or other marketing strategies by these competitors can have an adverse impact on our sales, earnings and growth. For example, many of those competitors have adopted “value pricing” strategies intended to lure customers away from other companies, including our Company. Consequently, these strategies could have the effect of drawing customers away from companies which do not engage in discount pricing and could also negatively impact the operating margins of competitors which attempt to match their competitors’ price reductions. Extensive price discounting in the quick-service restaurant business could have an adverse effect on our financial results.. In addition, we and our franchisees compete within the foodservice market and the quick-service restaurant business not only for customers but also for management and hourly employees and qualified franchisees. If we are unable to maintain our competitive position, we could experience downward pressure on prices, lower demand for products, reduced margins, the inability to take advantage of new business opportunities and the loss of market share.. Recent changes to minimum wage rates have increased our labor costs.. We must comply with the Fair Labor Standards Act and various federal and state laws governing minimum wages.  Increases in the minimum wage and labor regulations have increased our labor costs.  New York State passed legislation increasing the minimum hourly wage for fast food workers of restaurant chains with 30 or more locations nationwide which over a period of time will increase the minimum wage to $15.00 per hour. The first increase from this law took effect beginning December 31, 2015 and will be fully phased in by December 31, 2018 in New York City, where we operate three Company-owned restaurants and by December 31, 2021 throughout the rest of New York State which impacts the labor costs at our two remaining Company-owned restaurants and our franchised restaurants that operate in New York State. The impact of the New York minimum wage increases on our business amounted to a 12.3% average salary increase in 2016 and approximately an 11.0% average salary increase in 2017 for our employees that were affected.  We also expect that the increases that took effect on December 31, 2017 will increase the hourly wage by 11.4% for the employees that are affected in 2018. In addition, the federal government and a number of other states are evaluating various proposals to increase their respective minimum wage. As minimum wage rates increase, we may need to increase not only the wages of our minimum wage employees but also the wages paid to employees at wage rates that are above minimum wage. Additionally, as a result, we anticipate that our labor costs will continue to increase.  If we are unable to pass on these higher costs through price increases, our margins and profitability as well as the profitability and margins of our franchisees will be adversely impacted which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our business could be further negatively impacted if the decrease in margins for our franchisees results in the potential loss of new franchisees or the closing of a significant number of existing franchised restaurants.. 21. Increases in labor costs due to new regulations or labor shortages could slow our growth or harm our business.. In addition to minimum wage increases, in the past several years, state and local governments have enacted legislation which had increased labor costs. For instance, effective November 27, 2017, the City of New York enacted Fair Work Week Legislation. A key component of this legislation is a requirement that fast food restaurants schedule their workers at least two weeks in advance or pay employees between $10 to $75 per scheduling change, depending on the situation. Due to Nathan’s dependency on weather conditions at our two Coney Island locations during the summer, we are unable to determine the potential impact on our results of operations, which could be material. We have estimated that the daily penalty could amount to as much as $10,000 per day during the height of the summer season for these two restaurants. Continued increases in our labor costs as a result of this or other new legislation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Moreover, our success depends in part upon our ability and the ability of our franchisees to continue to attract, motivate and retain regional, operational and restaurant general managers with the qualifications to succeed in our industry and the motivation to apply our core service philosophy. If we or our franchisees are unable to continue to recruit and retain sufficiently qualified managers or to motivate our employees to achieve sustained high service levels, our business and our growth could be adversely affected. Competition for these employees could require the payment of higher wages that could result in higher labor costs.. Changes in the U.S. healthcare system could increase our cost of doing business.. In March 2010, the federal government passed new legislation to reform the U.S. health care system. As part of the plan, employers are expected to provide their employees with minimum levels of healthcare coverage or incur certain financial penalties. Our workforce includes numerous part-time workers, which may increase our health care costs and expose us to certain excise taxes, in the event that healthcare is offered to less than 95% of our full-time employees, as defined by the legislation. Additionally, some states and localities have passed state and local laws mandating the provision of certain levels of health benefits by some employers. Continued increases in health care costs could adversely affect our operations and those of the restaurant industry and we might have to further reconsider our pricing strategy as a means to offset reduced operating margins. Increased health care costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in economic, market and other conditions could adversely affect us and our franchisees, and thereby our operating results.. The quick-service restaurant business is affected by changes in international, national, regional, and local economic conditions, consumer preferences and spending patterns, demographic trends, consumer perceptions of food safety, weather, traffic patterns, the type, number and location of competing restaurants, and the effects of war or terrorist activities and any governmental responses thereto. Factors such as inflation, higher costs for each of food, labor, benefits and utilities, the availability and cost of suitable sites, fluctuating insurance rates, state and local regulations and licensing requirements, legal claims, and the availability of an adequate number of qualified management and hourly employees also affect restaurant operations and administrative expenses. Our ability and our franchisees’ ability to finance new restaurant development, to make improvements and additions to existing restaurants, and the acquisition of restaurants from, and sale of restaurants to, franchisees is affected by economic conditions, including interest rates and other government policies impacting land and construction costs and the cost and availability of borrowed funds.. Current restaurant locations may become unattractive, and attractive new locations may not be available for a reasonable price, if at all, which may reduce our revenue.. The success of any restaurant depends in substantial part on its location. There can be no assurance that current locations will continue to be attractive as demographic patterns change. Neighborhood or economic conditions where restaurants are located could decline in the future, thus resulting in potentially reduced sales in those locations. If we and our franchisees cannot obtain desirable additional and alternative locations at reasonable prices, our results of operations would be adversely affected.. 22. Any perceived or real health risks related to the food industry could adversely affect our ability to sell our products.. We are subject to risks affecting the food industry generally, including risks posed by the following:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfood spoilage or food contamination;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tconsumer product liability claims;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tproduct tampering; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe potential cost and disruption of a product recall.. Our products are susceptible to contamination by disease-producing organisms, or pathogens, such as listeria monocytogenes, salmonella, campylobacter, hepatitis A, trichinosis and generic E. coli. Because these pathogens are generally found in the environment, there is a risk that these pathogens could be introduced to our products as a result of improper handling at the manufacturing, processing, foodservice or consumer level. Our suppliers’ manufacturing facilities and products, as well as our franchisee and Company-operated restaurant operations, are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to health, food preparation, sanitation and safety standards. Difficulties or failures by these companies in obtaining any required licenses or approvals or otherwise complying with such laws and regulations could adversely affect our revenue that is generated from these companies. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that compliance with governmental regulations by our suppliers or in connection with restaurant operations will eliminate the risks related to food safety. In addition, our beef products are also subject to the risk of contamination from bovine spongiform encephalopathy.. Events reported in the media, or incidents involving food-borne illnesses or food tampering, whether or not accurate, can cause damage to our brand’s reputation and affect sales and profitability. Reports, whether true or not, of food-borne illnesses (such as e-coli, avian flu, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, hepatitis A, trichinosis or salmonella) and injuries caused by food tampering have in the past severely injured the reputations of participants in the quick-service restaurant business and could in the future affect our business as well. Our brand’s reputation is an important asset to the business; as a result, anything that damages our brand’s reputation could immediately and severely hurt system-wide sales and, accordingly, revenue and profits. If customers become ill from food-borne illnesses or food tampering, we could also be forced to temporarily close some, or all, restaurants. In addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or food tampering, even those occurring solely at the restaurants of competitors, could, by resulting in negative publicity about the restaurant industry, adversely affect system sales on a local, regional or system-wide basis. A decrease in customer traffic as a result of these health concerns or negative publicity, or as a result of a temporary closure of any of our Company-owned restaurants or our franchisees’ restaurants, could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Additionally, we may be subject to liability if the consumption of any of our products causes injury, illness, or death. A significant product liability judgment or a widespread product recall may negatively impact our sales and profitability for a period of time depending on product availability, competitive reaction, and consumer attitudes. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate and brand image. Injury to our brand’s reputation would likely reduce revenue and profits.. Negative publicity, including complaints on social media platforms and other internet-based communications, could damage our reputation and harm our guest traffic, and in turn, negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. There has been a marked increase in the use of social media platforms and similar devices, including blogs, social media websites and other forms of internet-based communications that allow individuals to access a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons. Consumers value readily available information concerning goods and services that they have or plan to purchase, and may act on such information without further investigation or authentication. The availability of information on social media platforms is virtually immediate, as is its impact. Many social media platforms immediately publish the content their subscribers and participants can post, often without filters or checks on accuracy of the content posted. The opportunity for dissemination of information, including inaccurate information, is seemingly limitless and readily available. Information concerning our business and products may be posted on such platforms at any time. Information posted may be adverse to our interests or may be inaccurate, each of which may harm our performance, prospects or business. The harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. Such platforms could also be used for dissemination of trade secret information, compromising valuable Company assets. In sum, the dissemination of information online, regardless of its accuracy, could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. 23. Changing health or dietary preferences may cause consumers to avoid products offered by us in favor of alternative foods.. The foodservice industry is affected by consumer preferences and perceptions. Reports of the use of hormones, antibiotics or pesticides in the production of certain food products may cause consumers to reduce or avoid consumption of such food products. If prevailing health or dietary preferences, perceptions and governmental regulation cause consumers to avoid the products we offer in favor of alternative or healthier foods, demand for our products may be reduced and our business could be harmed.. We are subject to health, employment, environmental and other government regulations, and failure to comply with existing or future government regulations could expose us to litigation, damage our corporate reputation or the reputation of our brands and lower profits.. We and our franchisees are subject to various federal, state and local laws, rules or regulations affecting our businesses. To the extent that the standards imposed by local, state and federal authorities are inconsistent, they can adversely affect popular perceptions of our business and increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings. We may be unable to manage effectively the impact of new, potential or changing regulations that affect or restrict elements of our business. The successful development and operation of restaurants depends to a significant extent on the selection and acquisition of suitable sites, which are subject to zoning, land use (including the placement of drive-thru windows), environmental (including litter), traffic and other regulations. There can be no assurance that we and our franchisees will not experience material difficulties or failures in obtaining the necessary licenses or approvals for new restaurants which could delay the opening of such restaurants in the future. Restaurant operations are also subject to licensing and regulation by state and local departments relating to health, food preparation, sanitation and safety standards, federal and state labor laws (including applicable minimum wage requirements, overtime, working and safety conditions and citizenship requirements), federal and state laws prohibiting discrimination and other laws regulating the design and operation of facilities, such as the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. If we fail to comply with any of these laws, we may be subject to governmental action or litigation, and accordingly our reputation could be harmed.. Injury to us or our brand’s reputation would, in turn, likely reduce revenue and profits. In addition, difficulties or failures in obtaining any required licenses or approvals could delay or prevent the development or opening of a new restaurant or renovations to existing restaurants, which would adversely affect our revenue.. In recent years, there has been an increased legislative, regulatory and consumer focus on nutrition and advertising practices in the food industry, particularly among quick-service restaurants. As a result, we may become subject to regulatory initiatives in the area of nutrition disclosure or advertising, such as requirements to provide information about the nutritional content of our food products, which could increase expenses. The operation of our franchise system is also subject to franchise laws and regulations enacted by a number of states and rules promulgated by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission. Any future legislation regulating franchise relationships may negatively affect our operations, particularly our relationship with our franchisees. Failure to comply with new or existing franchise laws and regulations in any jurisdiction or to obtain required government approvals could result in a ban or temporary suspension on future franchise sales. Changes in applicable accounting rules imposed by governmental regulators or private governing bodies could also affect our reported results of operations, which could cause our stock price to fluctuate or decline.. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could decrease the value of our business or the value of our brands and products.. The success of our business depends on the continued ability to use existing trademarks, service marks and other components of each of our brands in order to increase brand awareness and further develop branded products. We may not be able to adequately protect our trademarks, and the use of these trademarks may result in liability for trademark infringement, trademark dilution or unfair competition. All of the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not be adequate.. 24. We have registered or applied to register many of our trademarks and service marks both in the United States and in foreign countries. Because of the differences in foreign trademark laws, our trademark rights may not receive the same degree of protection in foreign countries as they would in the United States. We also cannot assure you that our trademark and service mark applications will be approved. In addition, third parties may oppose our trademark and service mark applications, or otherwise challenge our use of the trademarks or service marks. In the event that our trademarks or service marks are successfully challenged, we could be forced to rebrand our products and services, which could result in loss of brand recognition, and could require us to devote resources advertising and marketing new brands. Further, we cannot assure you that competitors will not infringe our marks, or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our trademarks or service marks.. We also license third party franchisees and other licensees to use our trademarks and service marks. We enter into franchise agreements with our franchisees and license agreements with other licensees which govern the use of our trademarks and service marks. Although we make efforts to police the use of our trademarks and service marks by our franchisees and other licensees, we cannot assure you that these efforts will be sufficient to ensure that our franchisees and other licensees abide by the terms of the trademark licenses. In the event that our franchisees fail to do so, our trademark and service mark rights could be diluted.. Our earnings and business growth strategy depends in large part on the success of our restaurant franchisees and on new restaurant openings. Our corporate reputation or brand reputation may be harmed by actions taken by restaurant franchisees that are otherwise outside of our control.. A significant portion of our earnings comes from royalties, fees and other amounts paid by our restaurant franchisees. The opening and success of franchised restaurants depends on various factors, including the demand for our franchises and the selection of appropriate franchisee candidates, the availability of suitable restaurant sites, the negotiation of acceptable lease or purchase terms for new locations, permitting and regulatory compliance, the ability to meet construction schedules, the availability of financing and the financial and other capabilities of our franchisees and area developers. We cannot assure you that area developers planning the opening of franchised restaurants will have the business abilities or sufficient access to financial resources necessary to open the restaurants required by their agreements. We cannot assure you that franchisees will successfully participate in our strategic initiatives or operate their restaurants in a manner consistent with our concept and standards. Our franchisees are independent contractors, and their employees are not our employees. We provide training and support to, and monitor the operations of, our franchisees, but the quality of their restaurant operations may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control. Consequently, the franchisees may not successfully operate their restaurants in a manner consistent with our high standards and requirements, and franchisees may not hire and train qualified managers and other restaurant personnel. Any operational shortcoming of a franchised restaurant is likely to be attributed by consumers to an entire brand or our system, thus damaging our corporate or brand reputation, potentially adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Growth in our restaurant revenue and earnings is significantly dependent on new restaurant openings. Numerous factors beyond our control may affect restaurant openings. These factors include but are not limited to:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to attract new franchisees;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe availability of site locations for new restaurants;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe ability of potential restaurant owners to obtain financing, which has become more difficult due to current market conditions and operating results;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe ability of restaurant owners to hire, train and retain qualified operating personnel;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tconstruction and development costs of new restaurants, particularly in highly-competitive markets;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe ability of restaurant owners to secure required governmental approvals and permits in a timely manner, or at all; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadverse weather conditions.. We cannot assure you that franchisees will renew their franchise agreements or that franchised restaurants will remain open. Closings of franchised restaurants are expected in the ordinary course and may cause our royalty revenues and financial performance to decline. Our principal competitors may have greater influence over their respective restaurant systems than we do because of their significantly higher percentage of company restaurants and/or ownership of franchisee real estate and, as a result, may have a greater ability to implement operational initiatives and business strategies, including their marketing and advertising programs.. 25. As our franchisees are independent operators, we have limited influence over their ability to invest in other businesses or incur excessive indebtedness. Some of our franchisees have invested in other businesses, including other restaurant concepts. Such franchisees may use the cash generated by their Nathan’s restaurants to expand their other businesses or to subsidize losses incurred by such businesses. Additionally, as independent operators, franchisees do not require our consent to incur indebtedness. Consequently, our franchisees have in the past, and may in the future, experience financial distress as a result of over-leveraging. To the extent that our franchisees use the cash from their Nathan’s restaurants to subsidize their other businesses or experience financial distress, due to over-leveraging, delayed or reduced payments of royalties, advertising fund contributions and rents for properties we lease to them, or otherwise, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, lenders to our franchisees may be less likely to provide current or prospective franchisees necessary financing on favorable terms, or at all, due to current market conditions and operating results.. Changes in franchise regulation laws could impact our ability to obtain or retain licenses or approvals and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We are also subject to federal statutes and regulations, including the rules promulgated by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, as well as certain state laws governing the offer and sale of franchises. Many state franchise laws impose substantive requirements on franchise agreements, including limitations on non-competition provisions and on provisions concerning the termination or non-renewal of a franchise. Some states require that certain materials be filed for a franchisor to be registered and approved, before franchises can be offered or sold in that state. The failure to obtain or retain licenses or approvals to sell franchises could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We rely on the performance of major retailers, wholesalers, specialty distributors and mass merchants for the success of our business, and should they perform poorly or give higher priority to other brands or products, our business could be adversely affected.. We sell our products to retail outlets and wholesale distributors including, traditional supermarkets, mass merchandisers, warehouse clubs, wholesalers, food service distributors and convenience stores. The replacement by or poor performance of our major wholesalers, retailers or chains or our inability to collect accounts receivable from our customers could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our customers offer branded and private label products that compete directly with our products for retail shelf space and consumer purchases. Accordingly, there is a risk that our customers may give higher priority to their own products or to the products of our competitors. In the future, our customers may not continue to purchase our products or provide our products with adequate levels of promotional support. A significant decline in the purchase of our products would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The sophistication and buying power of our customers could have a negative impact on profits.. Our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs, and food distributors, have continued to consolidate, resulting in fewer customers with which to do business. These consolidations and the growth of supercenters have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power and negotiating strength who are more capable of resisting price increases and can demand lower pricing, increased promotional programs, or specialty tailored products. In addition, larger retailers have the scale to develop supply chains that permit them to operate with reduced inventories or to develop and market their own retailer brands. If the larger size of these customers results in additional negotiating strength and/or increased private label or store brand competition, our profitability could decline.. Consolidation also increases the risk that adverse changes in our customers’ business operations or financial performance will have a corresponding material adverse effect on us. For example, if our customers cannot access sufficient funds or financing, then they may delay, decrease, or cancel purchases of our products, or delay or fail to pay us for previous purchases.. Failure by third-party manufacturers or suppliers of raw materials to comply with food safety, environmental or other regulations may disrupt our supply of certain products and adversely affect our business.. We rely on third-party manufacturers to produce our products and on other suppliers to supply raw materials. Such manufacturers and other suppliers, whether in the United States or outside the United States, are subject to a number of regulations, including food safety and environmental regulations. Failure by any of our manufacturers or other suppliers to comply with regulations, or allegations of compliance failure, may disrupt their operations. Disruption of the operations of a manufacturer or other suppliers could disrupt our supply of product or raw materials, which could have an adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Additionally, actions we may take to mitigate the impact of any such disruption or potential disruption, including increasing inventory in anticipation of a potential production or supply interruption, may adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.. 26. Leasing of real estate exposes us to possible liabilities and losses.. We lease land and/or buildings for certain restaurants, which can include the sub-letting of leased land and/or buildings to franchisees or companies other than our franchisees. Accordingly, we are subject to all of the risks associated with owning, leasing and sub-leasing real estate. We generally cannot cancel these leases. If an existing or future store is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may nonetheless be committed to perform the obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying the base rent for the balance of the lease term. In addition, as each of the leases expires, we may fail to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close stores in desirable locations.. We may evaluate acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic initiatives, any of which could distract management or otherwise have a negative effect on revenue, costs and stock price.. Our future success may depend on opportunities to buy or obtain rights to other businesses that could complement, enhance or expand our current business or products or that might otherwise offer growth opportunities. In particular, we may evaluate potential mergers, acquisitions, joint venture investments, strategic initiatives, alliances, vertical integration opportunities and divestitures. We have no commitments, agreements or understandings with respect to any of such transactions. In addition, our ability to engage in these transactions may be impacted by the incurrence of debt as a result of our sale of the Notes. Any attempt by us to engage in these transactions may expose us to various inherent risks, including:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnot accurately assessing the value, future growth potential, strengths, weaknesses, contingent and other liabilities and potential profitability of acquisition candidates;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe potential loss of key personnel of an acquired business;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe ability to achieve projected economic and operating synergies;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in successfully integrating, operating, maintaining and managing newly-acquired operations or employees;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tunanticipated changes in business and economic conditions affecting an acquired business;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe possibility of impairment charges if an acquired business performs below expectations; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe diversion of management’s attention from the existing business to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired or combined business or implement the strategic initiative.. Our annual and quarterly financial results may fluctuate depending on various factors, many of which are beyond our control, and, if we fail to meet the expectations of investors, our share price may decline.. Our sales and operating results can vary from quarter to quarter and year to year depending on various factors, many of which are beyond our control. Certain events and factors may directly and immediately decrease demand for our products. These events and factors include:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in customer demand;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsales promotions by Nathan’s and its competitors;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tvariations in the timing and volume of Nathan’s sales and franchisees’ sales;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in the terms of our existing license/supply agreements and/or the replacement of existing licenses or suppliers;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in average same-store sales and customer visits;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tvariations in the price, availability and shipping costs of supplies;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tseasonal effects on demand for Nathan’s products;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tunexpected slowdowns in new store development efforts;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in competitive and economic conditions generally;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in the cost or availability of ingredients or labor;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tweather and acts of God; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in the number of franchises sold and in franchise agreement renewals.. 27. Our operations are influenced by adverse weather conditions.. Weather, which is unpredictable, can impact our sales. Harsh weather conditions that keep customers from dining out result in lost opportunities for our Company-owned and our franchisees’ restaurants. A heavy snowstorm or a tropical storm or hurricane in the Northeast can shut down an entire metropolitan area, resulting in a reduction in sales in that area at Company-owned and franchised restaurants. Our fourth quarter includes winter months and historically has a lower level of sales at Company-owned and franchised restaurants. Additionally, our Company-owned restaurants at Coney Island are heavily dependent on favorable weather conditions during the summer season. Rain during the weekends and/or unseasonably cold temperatures will negatively impact the number of patrons going to the Coney Island beach locations. Because a significant portion of our restaurant operating costs is fixed or semi-fixed in nature, the loss of sales during these periods hurts our operating margins, and can result in restaurant operating losses. For these reasons, a quarter-to-quarter comparison may not be a good indication of our performance or how it may perform in the future.. Due to the concentration of our restaurants in particular geographic regions, our business results could be impacted by the adverse economic conditions prevailing in those regions regardless of the state of the national economy as a whole.. As of March 25, 2018, we and our franchisees (including units operated pursuant to our BMP) operated Nathan’s restaurants in 20 states and 12 foreign countries. As of March 25, 2018, the highest concentration of operating units was in the Northeast, principally in New York and New Jersey. This geographic concentration in the Northeast can cause economic conditions in particular areas of the country to have a disproportionate impact on our overall results of operations. It is possible that adverse economic conditions in states or regions that contain a high concentration of Nathan’s restaurants could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations in the future.. We rely extensively on computer systems, point of sales system and information technology to manage our business. Any disruption in our computer systems, point of sales system or information technology may adversely affect our ability to run our business.. We are significantly dependent upon our computer systems, point of sales system and information technology to properly conduct our business. A failure or interruption of computer systems, point of sales systems or information technology could result in the loss of data, business interruptions or delays in business operations. Further, despite our considerable efforts and technological resources to secure our computer systems, point of sales systems and information technology, security breaches, such as unauthorized access and computer viruses, may occur resulting in system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Any security breach of our computer systems, point of sales systems or information technology may result in adverse publicity, loss of sales and profits, penalties or loss resulting from misappropriation of information.. Cyberattacks and breaches could cause operational disruptions, fraud or theft of sensitive information.. Aspects of our operations are reliant upon internet-based activities, such as ordering supplies and back-office functions such as accounting and transaction processing, making payments and accepting credit card  payments in our restaurants , processing payroll and other administrative functions, etc.  For instance, if we fail to comply with applicable rules or requirements for the payment methods we accept, or if payment-related data is compromised due to a breach or misuse of data, we may be liable for costs incurred by payment card issuing banks and other third parties or subject to fines and higher transaction fees, or our ability to accept or facilitate certain types of payments may be impaired.  In addition, our customers could lose confidence in certain payment types, which may result in a shift to other payment types or potential changes to our payment systems that may result in higher costs.. We also use third-party vendors.  While we select third-party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions.  Any problems caused by these third parties, including those resulting from breakdowns or other disruptions in communication services provided by a vendor, failure of a vendor to handle current or higher volumes, cyberattacks and security breaches at a vendor could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to conduct our business.. Although we have taken measures to protect our technology systems and infrastructure, including continuously working to install new, and upgrade our existing information technology systems and provide employee training around phishing, malware and other cyber risks, there can be no assurance that we will be successful and fully protected  against cyber risks and security breaches.  A security breach could result in operational disruptions, theft or fraud, or exposure of sensitive information to unauthorized parties. Such events could result in additional costs related to operational inefficiencies, or damages, claims or fines.. 28. We may be required to recognize additional asset impairment and other asset-related charges.. We have long-lived assets, goodwill and intangible assets and have incurred impairment charges in the past with respect to those assets. In accordance with applicable accounting standards, we test for impairment annually, or more frequently, if there are indicators of impairment, such as:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsignificant adverse changes in the business climate;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcurrent period operating or cash flow losses combined with a history of operating or cash flow losses or a projection or forecast that demonstrates continuing losses associated with long-lived assets;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta current expectation that more-likely-than-not (e.g., a likelihood that is more than 50%) long-lived assets will be sold or otherwise disposed of significantly before the end of their previously estimated useful life; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta significant drop in our stock price.. Based upon future economic and capital market conditions, as well as the performance of individual operating units, future impairment charges could be incurred.. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business.. Unforeseen events, or the prospect of such events, including war, terrorism and other international conflicts, public health issues such as epidemics or pandemics, labor unrest and natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes or other extreme adverse weather and climate conditions, whether occurring in the United States or abroad, could disrupt our operations, disrupt the operations of franchisees, suppliers or customers, or result in political or economic instability. These events could negatively impact consumer spending, thereby reducing demand for our products, or the ability to receive products from suppliers. We do not have insurance policies that insure against certain of these risks. To the extent that we do maintain insurance with respect to some of these risks, our receipt of the proceeds of such policies may be delayed or the proceeds may be insufficient to offset our losses fully.. Our international operations are subject to various factors of uncertainty.. Our business outside of the United States is subject to a number of additional factors, including international economic and political conditions, differing cultures and consumer preferences, currency regulations and fluctuations, diverse government regulations and tax systems, uncertain or differing interpretations of rights (including intellectual property rights) and obligations in connection with international franchise agreements and the collection of royalties from international franchisees, the availability and cost of land and construction costs, and the availability of appropriate franchisees. In developing markets, we may face risks associated with new and untested laws and judicial systems. Although we believe we have developed the support structure required for international growth, there is no assurance that such growth will occur or that international operations will be profitable.. Fluctuations in weather, supply and demand and economic conditions could adversely affect the cost, availability and quality of some of our critical products, including beef. Our inability to obtain requisite quantities of high-quality ingredients would adversely affect our ability to provide the menu items that are central to our business, and the highly competitive nature of our industry may limit our ability to pass through increased costs to our customers. Continuing increases in the cost of fuel would increase the distribution costs of our prime products thereby increasing the food and paper cost to us and to our franchisees, thus negatively affecting profitability.. We have sought to lock in the cost of a portion of our beef purchases by entering into various commitments to purchase hot dogs during certain periods in an effort to ensure supply of product at a fixed cost of product. However, we may be unable to enter into similar purchase commitments in the future. In addition, we do not have the ability to effectively hedge all of our beef purchases using futures or forward contracts without incurring undue financial cost and risk.. Our business operations and future development could be significantly disrupted if we lose key members of our management team.. The success of our business continues to depend to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior officers and key employees, both individually and as a group. Our future performance will be substantially dependent, in particular, on our ability to retain and motivate our executive officers, for certain of whom we currently have employment agreements in place. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, as well as our ability to satisfy our obligations under the Notes. If we lose the services of any of these individuals in the foreseeable future; we currently have no effective replacement for any of these individuals due to their experience, reputation in the industry and special role in our operations.. 29. A recent ruling and complaint filed by the general counsel of the National Labor Relations Board could, if upheld, make us liable for violations of overtime, wage or union-organization violations by our franchisees.. On July 29, 2014, the General Counsel of the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) issued a statement announcing that McDonald’s USA LLC might be charged with being jointly liable for labor and wage violations by its franchisees. Subsequently on December 19, 2014, the General Counsel issued complaints alleging that McDonald’s USA LLC was a “joint employer” with its franchisees at certain franchised locations, under certain fact patterns. McDonald’s USA LLC and its franchisees are currently in administrative litigation with the NLRB. However, in March 2018, the NLRB announced a proposed settlement of that complaint. If the parties do not ultimately settle and the NLRB’s general counsel were to prevail in the administrative proceedings (as well as in related appeals in federal courts that will ensue), against McDonald’s USA LLC, then depending upon the facts charged in that case, the “joint employment” principle may be extended more broadly to franchisors other than McDonald’s, USA LLC (such as Nathan’s). If that took place, then we also might be held partly liable in cases of alleged overtime, wage, or union-organizing violations by our franchisees. Similar to the NLRB’s action, there have been private lawsuits in which parties have alleged that a franchisor and its franchisee “jointly employ” the franchisee’s staff, that the franchisor is responsible for the franchisees’ staff (under theories of apparent agency, ostensible agency, or actual agency), or otherwise. Among other things, a determination that Nathan's and its franchisees are joint employers of one or more franchisees’ staff may make it easier to organize our franchisees’ staff into unions, provide the staff and their union representatives with bargaining power to request that we have our franchisees raise wages, and make it more expensive and less profitable to operate a Nathan’s franchised restaurant. A decrease in profitability or the closing of a significant number of franchised restaurants could significantly impact our business (as well as our franchisees’ businesses), and we may also be significantly impacted if the NLRB or a private party successfully brought an action against our company alleging that we are a “joint employer” of our franchisees’ staffs.. We face risks of litigation and pressure tactics, such as strikes, boycotts and negative publicity from customers, franchisees, suppliers, employees and others, which could divert our financial, and management resources and which may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Class action lawsuits have been filed, and may continue to be filed, against various quick-service restaurants alleging, among other things, that quick-service restaurants have failed to disclose the health risks associated with high-fat foods and that quick-service restaurant marketing practices have targeted children and encouraged obesity. In addition, we face the risk of lawsuits and negative publicity resulting from injuries, including injuries to infants and children, allegedly caused by our products, toys and other promotional items available in our restaurants or by our playground equipment.. In addition, activist groups, including animal rights activists and groups acting on behalf of franchisees, the workers who work for suppliers and others, have in the past, and may in the future, use pressure tactics to generate adverse publicity by alleging, for example, inhumane treatment of animals by our suppliers, poor working conditions or unfair purchasing policies. These groups may be able to coordinate their actions with other groups, threaten strikes or boycotts or enlist the support of well-known persons or organizations in order to increase the pressure on us to achieve their stated aims. In the future, these actions or the threat of these actions may force us to change our business practices or pricing policies, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Further, we may be subject to employee, franchisee and other claims in the future based on, among other things, mismanagement of the system, unfair or unequal treatment, discrimination, harassment, wrongful termination and wage, rest break and meal break issues, including those relating to overtime compensation. We have been subject to these types of claims in the past, and if one or more of these claims were to be successful or if there is a significant increase in the number of these claims, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed.. 30. General regulation of the restaurant industry could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. The restaurant industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local governmental regulations, including those relating to the preparation and sale of food and those relating to building and zoning requirements. In recent years, there has been an increased legislative, regulatory and consumer focus on nutrition and advertising practices in the food industry, particularly among restaurants. This focus has resulted in, and may continue to result in, the enactment of laws and regulations that impact the ingredients and nutritional content of our menu offerings. For example, a number of states, counties and cities have enacted menu labeling laws requiring multi-unit restaurant operators to disclose certain nutritional information available to customers, or have enacted legislation restricting the use of certain types of ingredients in restaurants. Furthermore, the 2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (“PPACA”) establishes a uniform, federal requirement for certain restaurants to post nutritional information on their menus. Specifically, the PPACA amended the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act to require chain restaurants with 20 or more locations operating under the same name and offering substantially the same menus to publish the total number of calories of standard menu items on menus and menu boards, along with a statement that puts this calorie information in the context of a total daily calorie intake. The PPACA also requires covered restaurants to provide to consumers, upon request, a written summary of detailed nutritional information for each standard menu item, and to provide a statement on menus and menu boards about the availability of this information.. The PPACA further permits the United States Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”) to require covered restaurants to make additional nutrient disclosures, such as disclosure of trans fat content. The FDA nutritional labeling rules require establishments to post calorie counts on all menu items, calorie boards and drive-thru displays throughout the United States. Businesses affected by the new regulations had one year to comply. Compliance with current and future laws and regulations regarding the ingredients and nutritional content of our menu items may be costly and time-consuming.. An unfavorable report on, or reaction to, our menu ingredients, the size of our portions or the nutritional content of our menu items could negatively influence the demand for our offerings. Additionally, if consumer health regulations or consumer eating habits change significantly, we may be required to modify or discontinue certain menu items, and we may experience higher costs associated with the implementation of those changes. Additionally, some government authorities are increasing regulations regarding trans fats and sodium, which may require us to limit or eliminate trans fats and sodium from our menu offerings, switch to higher cost ingredients or may hinder our ability to operate in certain markets. Failure to comply with these laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We cannot make any assurances regarding our ability to effectively respond to changes in consumer health perceptions or our ability to successfully implement the nutrient content disclosure requirements and to adapt our menu offerings to trends in eating habits. The imposition of menu-labeling laws could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position, as well as the restaurant industry in general.. While we recently approved a quarterly dividend policy, there can be no assurance as to the declaration of future dividends or the amount of such dividend.. We paid our shareholders a special $25.00 per share dividend in 2015 and a special $5.00 per share dividend in January 2018. On May 31, 2018, Nathans’ Board of Directors authorized the commencement of a regular dividend of $1.00 per share per annum, payable at the rate of $0.25 per quarter. The initial $0.25 per share dividend was declared on June 8, 2018 and will be paid on Friday June 22, 2018 to shareholders of record at the close of business on June 18, 2018.  Our declaration and payment of future cash dividends  are subject to the final determination  by our Board of Directors that (i) the dividend will be made in compliance with laws applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends, including Section 170 of the Delaware General  Business Corporation Law, (ii) the dividend complies with the terms of the Indenture, and (iii) the payment of dividends remains in our best interests, which determination will be based on a number of factors, including the impact of changing laws and regulations, economic conditions, our results of operations and/or financial condition, capital resources, the ability to satisfy financial covenants and other factors considered relevant by the Board of Directors. There can be no assurance our Board of Directors will approve the payment of cash dividends in the future or the amount of a cash dividend. Any discontinuance of the payment of a dividend or changes to the amount of a dividend compared to prior dividends could cause our stock price to decline.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 may increase the after-tax cost of our outstanding indebtedness.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the “Tax Act”) limits our interest expense deduction on our Notes to 30% of taxable income before interest, depreciation and amortization from 2018 to 2021 and then taxable income before interest thereafter. The Tax Act permits us to carry forward disallowed interest expense indefinitely. Due to our high degree of leverage, beginning in 2018, a portion of our interest expense in future years may not be deductible, which may increase the after tax cost of any new debt financings as well as the refinancing of our existing debt. We are currently analyzing the impact of the nondeductible interest on our operations and capital structure.. 31. Changes in tax laws and unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies could adversely affect our tax expense.. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws, both domestically and internationally. From time to time, the United States Congress and foreign, state and local governments consider legislation that could increase our effective tax rates. If changes to applicable tax laws are enacted, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. Our tax returns and positions (including positions regarding jurisdictional authority of foreign governments to impose tax) are subject to review and audit by federal, state, local and international taxing authorities. An unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax expense, thereby negatively impacting our results of operations.. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and other corporate documents include anti-takeover provisions which may deter or prevent a takeover attempt.. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, other corporate documents, including the terms and condition of our Notes, and provisions of Delaware law may discourage takeover attempts and hinder a merger, tender offer or proxy contest targeting us, including transactions in which stockholders might receive a premium for their shares. This may limit the ability of stockholders to approve a transaction that they may think is in their best interest. The corporate documents include:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tShareholder Rights Agreement. We adopted a rights agreement which provided for a dividend distribution of one right for each share to holders of record of common stock on June 17, 2013. The rights become exercisable in the event any person or group accumulates 15% or more of our common stock, or if any person or group announces an offer which would result in it owning 15% or more of our common stock and our management does not approve of the proposed ownership.. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tEmployment Contracts. The employment agreements between us and each of Howard M. Lorber and Eric Gatoff provide that in the event there is a change in control of Nathan’s, the employee has the option, exercisable within one year for each of Messrs. Lorber and Gatoff, of his becoming aware of the change in control, to terminate his employment agreement. Upon such termination, Mr. Gatoff has the right to receive a lump sum payment equal to his salary and annual bonus for a one-year period, and Mr. Lorber has the right to receive a lump sum payment equal to the greater of (i) his salary and annual bonuses for the remainder of the employment term or (ii) 2.99 times his salary and annual bonus plus the difference between the exercise price of any exercisable options having an exercise price of less than the then current market price of our common stock and such current market price. Mr. Lorber will also receive a tax gross up payment to cover any excise tax.. Our net income and cash results could be impacted by the closing of the sale of our Company-owned restaurant, including the real estate, in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, New York.. We have entered into an Agreement of Sale to sell our Company-owned restaurant, including the real estate, in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, New York.  We have received an aggregate of $1.2 million deposit in connection with entering into the Agreement of Sale and an amendment thereto and proceeds for the sale are estimated to be $12.25 million. Such consideration would contribute significantly to our net income for the period in which the closing occurs as well our cash.  While the Agreement of Sale, as amended, contemplates a closing in the second quarter of fiscal 2019, the Agreement of Sale initially contemplated a closing in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and there can be no assurance that the closing of the Agreement of Sale will occur in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 or at all.  If the Agreement of Sale does not close, we will not receive the expected increase to our net income and cash.. Risks Related to the Notes. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness.. We have significant indebtedness and debt service obligations. As of March 25, 2018, we had total outstanding indebtedness of $150 million which is due in 2025. In addition, subject to the terms of any future agreements, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future. There is a risk that we will not be able to generate sufficient funds to repay our debt. If we cannot service our fixed charges, it would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under the Notes and our other debt.. As of March 25, 2018, we had $150.0 million of indebtedness under the Notes. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to you. For example, it could:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincrease our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake it more difficult for us to satisfy our other financial obligations, including our obligations relating to the Notes;. 32. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trestrict us from making strategic acquisitions or cause us to make non-strategic divestitures;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequire us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations to our lenders, resulting in possible defaults on and acceleration of such indebtedness;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tplace us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimit our ability to borrow additional funds or increase our cost of borrowing.. In addition, the terms of the indenture governing the Notes contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debts, including the Notes. The occurrence of any one of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects or ability to satisfy our obligations under the Notes.. Despite our current indebtedness level, we may still be able to incur significant additional amounts of debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness.. We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness, including additional Notes and other secured indebtedness, in the future. Although the indenture governing the Notes contains restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, the amount of indebtedness that could be incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If new debt is added to our existing debt levels, the related risks that we face would intensify and we may not be able to meet all our debt obligations, including the repayment of the Notes. In addition, the indenture governing the Notes does not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness under the indenture.. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. As such, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service the Notes or our other indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make payments on the Notes, to fund planned capital expenditures and to maintain sufficient working capital will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control.. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or future borrowings from other sources in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness, including the Notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to allow us to make scheduled payments on our indebtedness, we may need to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, including the Notes, on or before the maturity thereof, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including the Notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that the terms of that indebtedness will allow any of the above alternative measures or that these measures would satisfy our scheduled debt service obligations. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to repay or refinance our debt on favorable terms, it could significantly adversely affect our financial condition, the value of our outstanding debt, including the Notes, and our ability to make any required cash payments under our indebtedness, including the Notes. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at that time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. In addition, any future credit facility may be secured by a priority lien on substantially all of our assets. As such, our ability to refinance the Notes or seek additional financing could be impaired as a result of such security interest.. 33. We are subject to a number of restrictive covenants, which may restrict our business and financing activities.. The indenture governing the Notes imposes, and the terms of any future indebtedness may impose, operating and other restrictions on us. Such restrictions will affect, and in many respects limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred stock;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpay dividends on or make distributions in respect of our equity interests;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tredeem, repurchase or retire our equity interests, unsecured indebtedness or subordinated indebtedness;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake certain investments;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ttransfer or sell assets;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcreate or incur certain liens;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcreate restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to us;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmerge or consolidate with other companies or sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our and our restricted subsidiaries’ assets;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tengage in certain transactions with our affiliates; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdesignate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries.. The restrictions in the indenture governing the Notes may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interests of our business, and may make it difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. We also may incur future debt obligations that might subject us to additional restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility. Our ability to comply with these covenants in future periods will largely depend on the pricing of our products and services, and our ability to successfully implement our overall business strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be granted waivers or amendments to these agreements if for any reason we are unable to comply with these agreements. The breach of any of these covenants and restrictions could result in a default under the indenture governing the Notes, which could result in an acceleration of our indebtedness.. Changes in respect of the debt ratings of our Notes may materially and adversely affect the availability, the cost and the terms and conditions of our debt.. Our Notes have been publicly rated by Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., or Moody’s, and Standard & Poor’s Rating Services, or S&P, independent rating agencies. In addition, future debt instruments may be publicly rated. These debt ratings may affect our ability to raise debt. Any future downgrading of the Notes or our other debt by Moody’s or S&P may affect the cost and terms and conditions of our financings and could adversely affect the value and trading of the Notes."                                                                                                                 
