[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. If economic trends reverse or recession returns, our credit risk will increase and there could be greater loan losses.. A reversal in economic trends or return to a recession is likely to result in a higher rate of business closures and increased job losses in the region in which we do business. In addition, reduced State funding for the public colleges and universities that are large employers in our market area could have an adverse effect on employment levels and on the area’s economy. These factors would increase the likelihood that more of our customers would become delinquent or default on their loans. A higher level of loan defaults could result in higher loan losses, which could adversely affect our performance.. A reversal in economic trends, return to recession, or change in interest rates could increase the risk of losses in our investment portfolio.. The Company holds both corporate and municipal bonds in its investment portfolio. A reversal in economic recovery or return to recession could increase the actual or perceived risk of default by both corporate and government issuers and, in either case, could adversely affect the value of these investments. In addition, the value of these investments could be affected by a change in interest rates and related factors, including the pricing of securities.. The condition of the local real estate market could negatively affect our business.. Substantially all of the Company’s real property collateral is located in its market area. If there is a decline in real estate values, especially in the Company’s market area, the collateral for loans would deteriorate and provide significantly less security.. Focus on lending to small to mid-sized community-based businesses may increase its credit risk.. Most of the Company’s commercial business and commercial real estate loans are made to small business or middle market customers. These businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities and have a heightened vulnerability to economic conditions. If general economic conditions in the market areas in which the Company operates negatively impact this important customer sector, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.  Moreover, a portion of these loans have been made by the Company in recent years and the borrowers may not have experienced a complete business or economic cycle since becoming borrowers of the Bank. The deterioration of the borrowers’ businesses may hinder their ability to repay their loans with the Company, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.. Market interest rates, while rising, remain historically low. When market interest rates rise further, our net interest income can be negatively affected in the short term.. The direction and speed of interest rate changes affect our net interest margin and net interest income. In the short term, rising interest rates may negatively affect our net interest income if our interest-bearing liabilities (generally deposits) reprice sooner than our interest-earning assets (generally loans).. The allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses.. In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, an allowance for loan losses is maintained to provide for loan losses. The allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual credit losses, and future provisions for credit losses could materially and adversely affect operating results.  The allowance for loan losses is based on prior experience, as well as an evaluation of the risks in the current portfolio. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating, and other outside forces and conditions, including changes in interest rates, all of which are beyond the Company’s control; and these losses may exceed current estimates. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review the Company’s loans and allowance for loan losses. While management believes that the allowance for loan losses is adequate to cover current losses, it cannot make assurances that it will not further increase the allowance for loan losses or that regulators will not require it to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could adversely affect earnings.. The allowance for loan losses requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. Due to the inherent nature of this estimate, management cannot provide assurance that it will not significantly increase the allowance for loan losses, which could materially and adversely affect earnings.. Nonperforming assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.. The Company’s nonperforming assets adversely affect its net income in various ways. The Company expects to continue to incur additional losses relating to volatility in nonperforming loans. The Company does not record interest income on nonaccrual loans, which adversely affects its income and increases credit administration costs. When the Company receives collateral through foreclosures and similar proceedings, it is required to mark the related asset to the then fair market value of the collateral less estimated selling costs, which may, and often does, result in a loss. An increase in the level of nonperforming assets also increases the Company’s risk profile and may impact the capital levels regulators believe are appropriate in light of such risks. The Company utilizes various techniques such as workouts and restructurings to manage problem assets. Increases in or negative adjustments in the value of these problem assets, the underlying collateral, or in the borrowers’ performance or financial condition, could adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires significant commitments of time from management and staff, which can be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities, including generation of new loans. There can be no assurance that the Company will avoid further increases in nonperforming loans in the future.. 10. Table of Contents. The Company relies upon independent appraisals to determine the value of the real estate which secures a significant portion of its loans, and the values indicated by such appraisals may not be realizable if the Company is forced to foreclose upon such loans.. A significant portion of the Company’s loan portfolio consists of loans secured by real estate. The Company relies upon independent appraisers to estimate the value of such real estate. Appraisals are only estimates of value and the independent appraisers may make mistakes of fact or judgment which adversely affect the reliability of their appraisals. In addition, events occurring after the initial appraisal may cause the value of the real estate to increase or decrease.  As a result of any of these factors, the real estate securing some of the Company’s loans may be more or less valuable than anticipated at the time the loans were made. If a default occurs on a loan secured by real estate that is less valuable than originally estimated, the Company may not be able to recover the outstanding balance of the loan and will suffer a loss.. If more competitors come into our market area, our business could suffer.. The financial services industry in our market area is highly competitive, with a number of commercial banks, credit unions, insurance companies and stockbrokers seeking to do business with our customers. If there is additional competition from new business or if our existing competitors focus more attention on our market, we could lose customers and our business could suffer.. Additional laws and regulations or revisions and rescission of existing laws and regulations could lead to a significant increase in our regulatory burden.. The Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations have resulted in greater compliance costs and reduced the profitability of some of our products and services. Implementation of the proposed Basel III rules for capital could increase our compliance costs because of the complexity in the risk assessment rules. While the risk appears to have diminished somewhat, both federal and state governments could enact new laws affecting financial institutions that would further increase our regulatory burden and could negatively affect our profits. Likewise, revisions or rescission of existing laws and regulations already implemented may result in additional compliance costs, at least in the short-term or, if done imprudently, could ultimately create economic risks negatively affecting our revenues.. New laws and regulations could limit our sources of noninterest income.. While the risk appears to have diminished somewhat, new laws and regulations could limit our ability to offer certain profitable products and services. This could have a negative effect on the level of noninterest income.. Intense oversight by regulators could result in stricter requirements and higher overhead costs.. Regulators for the Company and the subsidiary bank are tasked with ensuring compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Laws and regulations are subject to a degree of interpretation. The regulatory environment has caused financial industry regulators to take more extreme interpretations, which could impact the Company’s earnings.. Political risks in the U.S. and the rest of the world could negatively affect the financial markets.. Political risks in the U.S. and the rest of the world could affect financial markets and affect fiscal policy which could negatively affect our investment portfolio and earnings.. Our information systems may experience an interruption or security breach.. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions of our internet banking, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed.. In the ordinary course of business, the Company collects and stores sensitive data, including proprietary business information and personally identifiable information of its customers and employees, in systems and on networks. The secure processing, maintenance and use of this information is critical to the Company’s operations and business strategy. The Company has invested in accepted technologies, and annually reviews its processes and practices that are designed to protect its networks, computers and data from damage or unauthorized access. Despite these security measures, the Company’s computer systems experienced two cyber-intrusions, one in May 2016 and one in January 2017 in which certain customer information was compromised, but which did not cause interruption to the Company’s normal operations. The Company’s computer systems and infrastructure may in the future be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. A breach of any kind could compromise systems and the information stored there could be accessed, damaged or disclosed. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our communications and information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability.. 11. Table of Contents. Cyber-attacks may disarm and/or bypass system safeguards and allow unauthorized access and misappropriation of financial data and assets.. As a financial institution holding company, we are vulnerable to and the target of cyber-attacks that attempt to access our digital technology systems, disarm and/or bypass system safeguards, access customer data and ultimately increase the risk of economic and reputational loss.. The Company experienced two cyber-intrusions, one in May 2016 and one in January 2017 in which certain customer information was compromised. The Company has strengthened its multi-faceted approach to reduce the exposure of our systems to cyber- intrusions, strengthen our defenses against hackers and protect customer accounts and information relevant to customer accounts from unauthorized access. These tools include digital technology safeguards, internal policies and procedures, and employee training.. The Company believes its cybersecurity risk management program addresses the risk from cybersecurity attacks. However, it is not possible to fully eliminate exposure. We may experience human error or have unknown susceptibilities that allow our systems to become victim to a highly-sophisticated cyber-attack. If hackers gain entry to our systems, they may disable other safeguards that limit loss, including limits on the number, amount, and frequency of ATM withdrawals, as well as other loss-prevention or detection measures.. Cybersecurity attacks are probable and may result in additional costs.. The Company has experienced many attempted cybersecurity attacks, of which two resulted in a breach. The Company estimates that the probability of future attempted cyber-attacks is high. To reduce the risk of loss from cyber-attacks and to remediate vulnerabilities discovered through the breach investigations, the Company has incurred costs related to forensic investigations, legal and advisory expenses, insurance premiums, system monitoring and testing, and installing new technological infrastructure and defenses. The Company has implemented or is in the process of implementing every recommendation from the forensic investigations. If the Company experiences another cyber-breach, these costs will increase as well as potential costs for litigation, reputational harm and regulatory costs.. The Company relies on other companies to provide key components of the Company’s business infrastructure.. Third parties provide key components of the Company’s business operations such as data processing, recording and monitoring transactions, online banking interfaces and services, internet connections and network access. While the Company has selected these third party vendors carefully, it does not control their actions. Any problem caused by these third parties, including those resulting from disruptions in communication services provided by a vendor, failure of a vendor to handle current or higher volumes, failures of a vendor to provide services for any reason or poor performance of services, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to deliver products and services to its customers and otherwise conduct its business. Financial or operational difficulties of a third party vendor could also hurt the Company’s operations if those difficulties interface with the vendor’s ability to serve the Company.  Replacing these third party vendors could also create significant delay and expense and damage the Company's ability to service its customers resulting in a loss of goodwill. Accordingly, use of such third parties creates an unavoidable inherent risk to the Company’s business operations.. Consumers may increasingly decide not to use the Bank to complete their financial transactions, which would have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and operations.. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions through alternative methods that historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts, mutual funds or general-purpose reloadable prepaid cards. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost of deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in funding for higher education could materially affect our business.. Two major employers in the Company’s market area are Virginia Tech and Radford University, both state-supported institutions. If federal or state support for public colleges and universities wanes, our business may be adversely affected from declines in university programs, capital projects, employment and other related factors.. The Company is dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect the Company’s operations and prospects.. The Company currently depends on the services of a number of key management personnel. The loss of key personnel could materially and adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s success also depends in part on the ability to attract and retain additional qualified management personnel. Competition for such personnel is strong and the Company may not be successful in attracting or retaining the personnel it requires.. 12. Table of Contents. Changes in accounting standards could impact reported earnings.. The authorities who promulgate accounting standards, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, SEC, and other regulatory authorities, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements. These changes are difficult to predict and can materially impact how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, the Company could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of financial statements for prior periods. Such changes could also require the Company to incur additional personnel or technology costs. Most notably, new guidance on the calculation of credit reserves using current expected credit losses was finalized in June, 2016. The standard will be effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2021. The Company has formed a management committee to prepare for the new standards. The committee has implemented new data collection and has begun the process to run preliminary CECL models along with the incurred loss model currently in use. To implement the new standard, the Company will incur costs related to data collection and documentation, technology and training. The Company expects that implementation could significantly impact our required credit reserves. Other impacts to capital levels, profit and loss and various financial metrics will also result.. The Company is subject to claims and litigation pertaining to fiduciary responsibility.. From time to time, customers make claims and take legal action pertaining to the performance of the Company’s fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action related to the performance of the Company’s fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to the Company, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of the Company and its products and services, as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.. The Company’s ability to pay dividends depends upon the results of operations of its subsidiaries.. The Company is a financial holding company and a bank holding company that conducts substantially all of its operations through NBB. As a result, the Company’s ability to make dividend payments on its common stock depends primarily on certain federal regulatory considerations and the receipt of dividends and other distributions from NBB. There are various regulatory restrictions on the ability of NBB to pay dividends or make other payments to the Company. Although the Company has historically paid a cash dividend to the holders of its common stock, holders of the common stock are not entitled to receive dividends, and regulatory or economic factors may cause the Company’s Board of Directors to consider, among other things, the reduction of dividends paid on the Company’s common stock.. While the Company’s common stock is currently traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market, it has less liquidity than stocks for larger companies quoted on a national securities exchange.. The trading volume in the Company’s common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market has been relatively low when compared with larger companies listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market or other stock exchanges. There is no assurance that a more active and liquid trading market for the common stock will exist in the future. Consequently, stockholders may not be able to sell a substantial number of shares for the same price at which stockholders could sell a smaller number of shares. In addition, the Company cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of its common stock in the market, or the availability of shares of common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of the common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, could cause the price of the Company’s common stock to decline, or reduce the Company’s ability to raise capital through future sales of common stock.. A change in tax rates applicable to the Company may cause impairment of deferred tax assets.. The Company determines deferred income taxes using the balance sheet method. Under this method, each asset and liability is examined to determine the difference between its book basis and its tax basis. The difference between the book basis and the tax basis of each asset and liability is multiplied by the Company’s marginal tax rate to determine the net deferred tax asset or liability. If the applicable tax rate changes, the effect of the change on deferred tax assets is recognized as an increase or decrease to income tax expense.. When changes in tax rates and laws are enacted, the company must recognize the changes in the period in which they are enacted. On December 22, 2017, The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“the ACT”) was signed into law and becomes effective January 1, 2018. The Act will change the Company’s applicable tax rate from a 35% marginal rate to a flat 21%. Deferred tax assets were re-valued from 35% to 21% in 2017, with a resulting charge to income tax expense."
