[1] "ITEM 1A.  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tRISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below, as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10–K. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward–looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10–K, because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward–looking statements. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and cash flows.. Risks Relating to Our Company. We depend on reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid and other third–party payors and reimbursement rates from such payors may be reduced.  We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from third–party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Third–party payor programs are highly regulated and are subject to frequent and substantial changes. Changes in the reimbursement rate or methods of payment from third–party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, or the implementation of other measures to reduce reimbursements for our services has in the past, and could in the future, result in a substantial reduction in our revenues and operating margins. Additionally, net revenue realizable under third–party payor agreements can change after examination and retroactive adjustment by payors during the claims settlement processes or as a result of post–payment audits. Payors may disallow requests for reimbursement based on determinations that certain costs are not reimbursable or reasonable because additional documentation is necessary or because certain services were not covered or were not reasonable and medically necessary. There also continue to be new legislative and regulatory proposals that could impose further limitations on government and private payments to health care providers. In some cases, states have enacted or are considering enacting measures designed to reduce their Medicaid expenditures and to make changes to private health care insurance. We cannot assure you that adequate reimbursement levels will continue to be available for the services provided by us, which are currently being reimbursed by Medicare, Medicaid or private third–party payors. Further limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. It is possible that the effects of further refinements to PPS that result in lower payments to us or cuts in state Medicaid funding could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. See Item 1, \"Business – Regulation and Licenses\" and \"Medicare Legislation and Regulations\" and \"Medicaid Legislation and Regulations\".. 12. Table of Contents. The Affordable Care Act and its implementation could impact our business. The Affordable Care Act may continue to alter the existing U.S. health care system for the delivery and financing of health care. A significant goal of Federal health care reform is to transform the delivery of health care by changing reimbursement for health care services to hold providers accountable for the cost and quality of care provided. Medicare and many commercial third-party payors are implementing ACO models in which groups of providers share in the benefit and risk of providing care to an assigned group of individuals at lower cost. Other reimbursement methodology reforms include value-based purchasing, in which a portion of provider reimbursement is redistributed based on relative performance on designated economic, clinical quality, and patient satisfaction metrics. In addition, CMS is implementing programs to bundle acute care and post-acute care reimbursement to hold providers accountable for costs across a broader continuum of care. These reimbursement methodologies and similar programs are likely to continue and expand, both in public and commercial health plans. Providers who respond successfully to these trends and can deliver quality care at lower cost are likely to benefit financially. The Affordable Care Act and the programs implemented by the law may reduce reimbursements for our services and may impact the demand for the Company’s products. In addition, various healthcare programs and regulations may be ultimately implemented at the federal or state level. Failure to respond successfully to these trends could negatively impact our business, results of operations and/or financial condition.. We cannot predict the effect that further healthcare reform, the possible repeal and replacement of the Affordable Care Act, and other changes in government programs may have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Since the adoption of the Affordable Care Act in 2010, the law has been challenged before the U.S. Supreme Court, and several bills have been and continue to be introduced in Congress to delay, defund or repeal implementation of or amend significant provisions of the Affordable Care Act.  In addition, there continues to be ongoing litigation over the interpretation and implementation of certain provisions of the law.  Furthermore, on January 20, 2017, newly-inaugurated President Trump issued an executive order that, among other things, stated that it was the intent of his administration to repeal the Affordable Care Act and, pending that repeal, instructed the executive branch of the federal government to defer or delay the implementation of any provision or requirement of the Affordable Care Act that would impose a fiscal burden on any state or a cost, fee, tax or penalty on any individual, family, health care provider, or health insurer.. We cannot predict whether the Affordable Care Act will be repealed, replaced, or modified or the impact that the President’s executive order will have on the implementation and enforcement of the provisions of the Affordable Care Act.  In addition, if the Affordable Care Act is replaced or modified, we cannot predict what the replacement plan or modifications would be, when the replacement plan or modifications would become effective, or whether any of the existing provisions of the Affordable Care Act would remain in place.. The net effect of the Affordable Care Act on our business is subject to numerous variables, including the law’s complexity, lack of complete implementing regulations and interpretive guidance, and the gradual implementation of the numerous programs designed to improve access and quality.  As a result, we are unable to predict the effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, the reductions in government healthcare reimbursement spending, and numerous other provisions potentially impacted by the possible repeal, replacement or modification of the Affordable Care Act.. We conduct business in a heavily regulated industry, and changes in, or violations of regulations may result in increased costs or sanctions that reduce our revenue and profitability. In the ordinary course of our business, we are regularly subject to inquiries, investigations and audits by federal and state agencies to determine whether we are in compliance with regulations governing the operation of, and reimbursement for, skilled nursing, assisted living and independent living facilities, hospice, home health agencies and our other operating areas. These regulations include those relating to licensure, conduct of operations, ownership of facilities, construction of new and additions to existing facilities, allowable costs, services and prices for services. In particular, various laws, including federal and state anti–kickback and anti–fraud statutes, prohibit certain business practices and relationships that might affect the provision and cost of health care services reimbursable under federal and/or state health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, including the payment or receipt of remuneration for the referral of patients whose care will be paid by federal governmental programs. Sanctions for violating the anti–kickback and anti–fraud statutes include criminal penalties and civil sanctions, including fines and possible exclusion from governmental programs such as Medicare and Medicaid.. In addition, the Stark Law broadly defines the scope of prohibited physician referrals under federal health care programs to providers with which they have ownership or other financial arrangements. Many states have adopted, or are considering, legislative proposals similar to these laws, some of which extend beyond federal health care programs, to prohibit the payment or receipt of remuneration for the referral of patients and physician referrals regardless of the source of the payment for the care. These laws and regulations are complex and limited judicial or regulatory interpretation exists. We cannot assure you that governmental officials charged with responsibility for enforcing the provisions of these laws and regulations will not assert that one or more of our arrangements are in violation of the provisions of such laws and regulations.. 13. Table of Contents. The regulatory environment surrounding the post–acute and long–term care industry has intensified, particularly for larger for–profit, multi–facility providers like us. The federal government has imposed extensive enforcement policies resulting in a significant increase in the number of inspections, citations of regulatory deficiencies and other regulatory sanctions, including terminations from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, denials of payment for new Medicare and Medicaid admissions and civil monetary penalties. If we fail to comply, or are perceived as failing to comply, with the extensive laws and regulations applicable to our business, we could become ineligible to receive government program reimbursement, be required to refund amounts received from Medicare, Medicaid or private payors, suffer civil or criminal penalties, suffer damage to our reputation in various markets or be required to make significant changes to our operations. We are also subject to federal and state laws that govern financial and other arrangements between health care providers. These laws often prohibit certain direct and indirect payments or fee–splitting arrangements between health care providers that are designed to induce the referral of patients to a provider for medical products and services. Possible sanctions for violation of any of these restrictions or prohibitions include loss of eligibility to participate in reimbursement programs and/or civil and criminal penalties. Furthermore, some states restrict certain business relationships between physicians and other providers of health care services. Many states prohibit business corporations from providing, or holding themselves out as a provider of, medical care. From time to time, we may seek guidance as to the interpretation of these laws; however, there can be no assurance that such laws will ultimately be interpreted in a manner consistent with our practices. In addition, we could be forced to expend considerable resources responding to an investigation or other enforcement action under these laws or regulations. Furthermore, should we lose licenses or certifications for many our facilities as a result of regulatory action or otherwise, we could be deemed in default under some of our agreements, including agreements governing outstanding indebtedness. We also are subject to potential lawsuits under a federal whistle–blower statute designed to combat fraud and abuse in the health care industry, known as the federal False Claims Act.  These lawsuits can involve significant monetary awards to private plaintiffs who successfully bring these suits.  When a private party brings a qui tam action under the False Claims Act, it files the complaint with the court under seal, and the defendant will generally not be aware of the lawsuit until the government makes a determination whether it will intervene and take a lead in the litigation. Even if, during an investigation, the court partially unseals a complaint to allow the government and a defendant to work toward a resolution of the complaint's allegations, the defendant is prohibited from revealing to anyone the existence of the compliant or that the partial unsealing has occurred.. We have established policies and procedures that we believe are sufficient to ensure that our facilities will operate in substantial compliance with these anti–fraud and abuse requirements. While we believe that our business practices are consistent with Medicare and Medicaid criteria, those criteria are often vague and subject to change and interpretation. Aggressive anti–fraud actions, however, have had and could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Item 1, \"Business – Regulation and Licenses\".. We are unable to predict the future course of federal, state and local regulation or legislation, including Medicare and Medicaid statutes and regulations, or the intensity of federal and state enforcement actions. Our failure to obtain or renew required regulatory approvals or licenses or to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the suspension or revocation of our licenses or our disqualification from participation in certain federal and state reimbursement programs, or the imposition of other harsh enforcement sanctions could have a material adverse effect upon our operations and financial condition.. We are required to comply with laws governing the transmission and privacy of health information. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, requires us to comply with standards for the exchange of health information within our Company and with third parties, such as payors, business associates and patients. These include standards for common health care transactions, such as claims information, plan eligibility, payment information and the use of electronic signatures, unique identifiers for providers, employers, health plans and individuals, and security, privacy and enforcement. If we are found to be in violation of the privacy or security rules under HIPAA or other federal or state laws protecting the confidentiality of patient health information, we could be subject to criminal penalties and civil sanctions, which could increase our liabilities, harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity.. We are defendants in significant legal actions, which are commonplace in our industry, and which could subject us to increased operating costs and substantial uninsured liabilities, which would materially and adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition.  As is typical in the health care industry, we are subject to claims that our services have resulted in resident injury or other adverse effects. We, like our industry peers, have experienced an increasing trend in the frequency and severity of professional liability and workers’ compensation claims and litigation asserted against us. In some states in which we have significant operations, insurance coverage for the risk of punitive damages arising from professional liability claims and/or litigation may not, in certain cases, be available due to state law prohibitions or limitations of availability. We cannot assure you that we will not be liable for punitive damage awards that are either not covered or are in excess of our insurance policy limits. We also believe that there have been, and will continue to be, governmental investigations of long–term care providers, particularly in the area of Medicare/Medicaid false claims, as well as an increase in enforcement actions resulting from these investigations. Insurance is not available to cover such losses. Any adverse determination in a legal proceeding or governmental investigation, whether currently asserted or arising in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. 14. Table of Contents. Due to the rising cost and limited availability of professional liability and workers’ compensation insurance, we are largely self–insured on all of these programs and as a result, there is no limit on the maximum number of claims or amount for which we or our insurance subsidiaries can be liable in any policy period. Although we base our loss estimates on independent actuarial analyses using the information we have to date, the amount of the losses could exceed our estimates. In the event our actual liability exceeds our estimates for any given period, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted. In addition, our insurance coverage might not cover all claims made against us. If we are unable to maintain our current insurance coverage, if judgments are obtained in excess of the coverage we maintain, if we are required to pay uninsured punitive damages, or if the number of claims settled within the self–insured retention currently in place significantly increases, we could be exposed to substantial additional liabilities. We cannot assure you that the claims we pay under our self–insurance programs will not exceed the reserves we have set aside to pay claims. The number of claims within the self–insured retention may increase.. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes–Oxley Act could result in a restatement of our financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in our financial statements and our company and have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. We produce our consolidated financial statements in accordance with the requirements of U.S. GAAP. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports to help mitigate the risk of fraud and to operate successfully as a publicly traded company. As a public company, we are required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes–Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting.. Testing and maintaining internal controls can divert our management's attention from other matters that are important to our business. We may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 or our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to issue an unqualified report if we conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective. If either we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report as required by Section 404, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and our company, which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock, and cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations in the future, which in turn could impact our ability to raise additional financing if needed in the future.. Increasing costs of being publicly owned are likely to impact our future consolidated financial position and results of operations. In connection with the Sarbanes–Oxley Act of 2002, we are subject to rules requiring our management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to have effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting in place, we could be unable to provide timely and reliable financial information which could, in turn, have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Significant regulatory changes, including the Sarbanes–Oxley Act and rules and regulations promulgated as a result of the Sarbanes–Oxley Act, have increased, and in the future, are likely to further increase general and administrative costs. In order to comply with the Sarbanes–Oxley Act of 2002, the listing standards of the NYSE exchange, and rules implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), we have had to hire additional personnel and utilize additional outside legal, accounting and advisory services, and may continue to require such additional resources. Moreover, in the rapidly changing regulatory environment in which we operate, there is significant uncertainty as to what will be required to comply with many of the regulations. As a result, we may be required to spend substantially more than we currently estimate, and may need to divert resources from other activities, as we develop our compliance plans.. New accounting pronouncements or new interpretations of existing standards could require us to make adjustments in our accounting policies that could affect our financial statements. The Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC, or other accounting organizations or governmental entities issue new pronouncements or new interpretations of existing accounting standards that sometimes require us to change our accounting policies and procedures. Future pronouncements or interpretations could require us to change our policies or procedures and have a significant impact on our future financial statements.. 15. Table of Contents. By undertaking to provide management services, advisory services, and/or financial services to other entities, we become at least partially responsible for meeting the regulatory requirements of those entities. We provide management and/or financial services to skilled nursing facilities, assisting living facilities and independent living facilities owned by third parties. At December 31, 2017, we perform management services (which include financial services) for 11 such centers and accounting and financial services for an additional 20 such centers. The \"Risk Factors\" contained herein as applying to us may in many instances apply equally to these other entities for which we provide services. We have in the past and may in the future be subject to claims from the entities to which we provide management, advisory or financial services, or to the claims of third parties to those entities. Any adverse determination in any legal proceeding regarding such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, our results of operation, our financial condition and cash flows.. We provide management services to skilled nursing facilities and other healthcare facilities under terms whereby the payments for our services are subject to subordination to other expenditures of the healthcare facility. Furthermore, there are certain third parties with whom we have contracted to provide services and which we have determined, based on insufficient historical collections and the lack of expected future collections, that the service revenue realization is uncertain. We may, therefore, make expenditures related to the provision of services for which we are not paid.. The cost to replace or retain qualified nurses, health care professionals and other key personnel may adversely affect our financial performance, and we may not be able to comply with certain states’ staffing requirements.  We could experience significant increases in our operating costs due to shortages in qualified nurses, health care professionals and other key personnel. The market for these key personnel is highly competitive. We, like other health care providers, have experienced difficulties in attracting and retaining qualified personnel, especially facility administrators, nurses, certified nurses' aides and other important health care providers. There is currently a shortage of nurses, and trends indicate this shortage will continue or worsen in the future. The difficulty our skilled nursing facilities are experiencing in hiring and retaining qualified personnel has increased our average wage rate. We may continue to experience increases in our labor costs due to higher wages and greater benefits required to attract and retain qualified health care personnel. Our ability to control labor costs will significantly affect our future operating results.. Certain states in which we operate skilled nursing facilities have adopted minimum staffing standards and additional states may also establish similar requirements in the future. Our ability to satisfy these requirements will depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified nurses, certified nurses' assistants and other staff. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in the imposition of fines or other sanctions. If states do not appropriate sufficient additional funds (through Medicaid program appropriations or otherwise) to pay for any additional operating costs resulting from minimum staffing requirements, our profitability may be adversely affected.. Although we currently have no collective bargaining agreements with unions at our facilities, there is no assurance this will continue to be the case. If any of our facilities enter into collective bargaining agreements with unions, we could experience or incur additional administrative expenses associated with union representation of our employees.. Our senior management team has extensive experience in the healthcare industry. We believe they have been instrumental in guiding our business, instituting valuable performance and quality monitoring, and driving innovation. Accordingly, our future performance is substantially dependent upon the continued services of our senior management team. The loss of the services of any of these persons could have a material adverse effect upon us.. Future acquisitions may be difficult to complete, use significant resources, or be unsuccessful and could expose us to unforeseen liabilities. We may selectively pursue acquisitions or new developments in our target markets. Acquisitions and new developments may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, capital expenditures, additional operating losses, amortization of the intangible assets of acquired companies, dilutive issuances of equity securities and other expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions also involve numerous other risks, including difficulties integrating acquired operations, personnel and information systems, diversion of management's time from existing operations, potential losses of key employees or customers of acquired companies, assumptions of significant liabilities, exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies and increases in our indebtedness.. We cannot assure that we will succeed in obtaining financing for any acquisitions at a reasonable cost or that any financing will not contain restrictive covenants that limit our operating flexibility. We also may be unable to operate acquired facilities profitably or succeed in achieving improvements in their financial performance.. 16. Table of Contents. We also may face competition in acquiring any facilities. Our competitors may acquire or seek to acquire many of the facilities that would be suitable acquisition candidates for us. This could limit our ability to grow by acquisitions or increase the cost of our acquisitions.. Upkeep of healthcare properties is capital intensive, requiring us to continually direct financial resources to the maintenance and enhancement of our physical plant and equipment. As of December 31, 2017, we leased or owned 68 skilled nursing facilities, 21 assisted living facilities, and four independent living facilities. Our ability to maintain and enhance our physical plant and equipment in a suitable condition to meet regulatory standards, operate efficiently and remain competitive in our markets requires us to commit a substantial portion of our free cash flow to continued investment in our physical plant and equipment. Certain of our competitors may operate centers that are not as old as our centers, or may appear more modernized than our centers, and therefore may be more attractive to prospective customers. In addition, the cost to replace our existing centers through acquisition or construction is substantially higher than the carrying value of our centers. We are undertaking a process to allocate more aggressively capital spending within our owned and leased facilities in an effort to address issues that arise in connection with an aging physical plant.. If factors, including factors indicated in these \"Risk Factors\" and other factors beyond our control render us unable to direct the necessary financial and human resources to the maintenance, upgrade and modernization of our physical plant and equipment, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow could be adversely impacted.. Our business is subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. As a healthcare provider, we face regulatory requirements in areas of air and water quality control, medical and low–level radioactive waste management and disposal, asbestos management, response to mold and lead–based paint in our facilities and employee safety.. As an operator of healthcare facilities, we also may be required to investigate and remediate hazardous substances that are located on and/or under the property, including any such substances that may have migrated off, or may have been discharged or transported from the property. Part of our operations involves the handling, use, storage, transportation, disposal and discharge of medical, biological, infectious, toxic, flammable and other hazardous materials, wastes, pollutants or contaminants. In addition, we are sometimes unable to determine with certainty whether prior uses of our facilities and properties or surrounding properties may have produced continuing environmental contamination or noncompliance, particularly where the timing or cost of making such determinations is not deemed cost–effective. These activities, as well as the possible presence of such materials in, on and under our properties, may result in damage to individuals, property or the environment; may interrupt operations or increase costs; may result in legal liability, damages, injunctions or fines; may result in investigations, administrative proceedings, penalties or other governmental agency actions; and may not be covered by insurance.. We believe that we are in material compliance with applicable environmental and occupational health and safety requirements. However, we cannot assure you that we will not encounter environmental liabilities in the future, and such liabilities may result in material adverse consequences to our operations or financial condition.. Provision for losses in our financial statements may not be adequate. Loss provisions in our financial statements for self–insured programs are made on an undiscounted basis in the relevant period. These provisions are based on internal and external evaluations of the merits of individual claims, analysis of claims history and independent actuarially determined estimates. Our management reviews the methods of determining these estimates and establishing the resulting accrued liabilities frequently, with any material adjustments resulting therefrom being reflected in current earnings. Although we believe that our provisions for self–insured losses in our financial statements are adequate, the ultimate liability may be in excess of the amounts recorded. In the event the provisions for loss reflected in our financial statements are inadequate, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially affected.. Implementation of new information technology could cause business interruptions and negatively affect our profitability and cash flows. We continue to refine and implement our information technology to improve customer service, enhance operating efficiencies and provide more effective management of business operations. Implementation of information technology carries risks such as cost overruns, project delays and business interruptions and delays. If we experience a material business interruption as a result of the implementation of our existing or future information technology infrastructure or are unable to obtain the projected benefits of this new infrastructure, it could adversely affect us and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. 17. Table of Contents. We depend on the proper function and availability of our information systems. We are dependent on the proper function and availability of our information systems. Though we have taken steps to protect the safety and security of our information systems and the data maintained within those systems, there can be no assurance that our safety and security measures and disaster recovery plan will prevent damage or interruption of our systems and operations and we may be vulnerable to losses associated with the improper functioning, security breach or unavailability of our information systems. Failure to maintain proper function and availability of our information systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity.. In addition, certain software supporting our business and information systems are licensed to us by independent software developers. Our inability or the inability of these developers, to continue to maintain and upgrade our information systems and software could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations. In addition, costs and potential problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems and technology or with maintenance or adequate support of existing systems also could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity.. Cybersecurity risks could harm our ability to operate effectively. Cybersecurity refers to the combination of technologies, processes and procedures established to protect information technology systems and data from unauthorized access, attack, or damage. We rely on our information systems to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential patient, resident and other customer information, such as individually identifiable information, including information relating to health protected by HIPAA. Although we have taken steps to protect the security of our information systems and the data maintained in those systems, it is possible that our safety and security measures will not prevent the systems' improper functioning or damage or the improper access or disclosure of personally identifiable information such as in the event of cyber–attacks. Security breaches, including physical or electronic break–ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and similar breaches can create system disruptions or shutdowns or the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. If personal or otherwise protected information of our patients is improperly accessed, tampered with or distributed, we may incur significant costs to remediate possible injury to the affected patients and we may be subject to sanctions and civil or criminal penalties if we are found to be in violation of the privacy or security rules under HIPAA or other similar federal or state laws protecting confidential patient health information.. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any cybersecurity vulnerabilities. The occurrence of any of these events could result in harm to patients; business interruptions and delays; the loss, misappropriation, corruption or unauthorized access of data; litigation and potential liability under privacy, security and consumer protection laws or other applicable laws; reputational damage; or federal and state governmental inquiries. Any failure to maintain proper functionality and security of our information systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we fail to compete effectively with other health care providers, our revenues and profitability may decline.  The health care services industry is highly competitive. Our skilled nursing facilities, assisted living centers, independent living facilities, home care services and other operations compete on a local and regional basis with other nursing centers, health care providers, and senior living service providers. Some of our competitors' facilities are located in newer buildings and may offer services not provided by us or are operated by entities having greater financial and other resources than us. Our skilled nursing facilities face competition from skilled nursing, assisted living, independent living facilities, homecare services, and other operations that provide services comparable to those offered by our skilled nursing facilities. Many competing general acute care hospitals are larger and more established than our facilities.. The health care industry is divided into a variety of competitive areas that market similar services. These competitors include skilled nursing, assisted living, independent living facilities, homecare services, hospice providers and other operations. Our facilities generally operate in communities that also are served by similar facilities operated by our competitors. Certain of our competitors are operated by not–for–profit, non–taxpaying or governmental agencies that can finance capital expenditures on a tax-exempt basis and that receive funds and charitable contributions unavailable to us. Our facilities compete based on factors such as our reputation for quality care; the commitment and expertise of our staff; the quality and comprehensiveness of our treatment programs; the physical appearance, location and condition of our facilities and to a limited extend, the charges for services. In addition, we compete with other health care providers for customer referrals from hospitals. As a result, a failure to compete effectively with respect to referrals may have an adverse impact on our business. Many of these competing companies have greater financial and other resources than we have. We cannot assure that increased competition in the future will not adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. 18. Table of Contents. Possible changes in the case mix of patients as well as payor mix and payment methodologies may significantly affect our profitability. The sources and amounts of our patient revenues will be determined by a number of factors, including licensed bed capacity and occupancy rates of our facilities, the mix of patients and the rates of reimbursement among payors. Likewise, reimbursement for therapy services will vary based upon payor and payment methodologies. Changes in the case mix of the patients as well as payor mix among private pay, Medicare and Medicaid will significantly affect our profitability. Particularly, any significant increase in our Medicaid population could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flow, especially if states operating these programs continue to limit, or more aggressively seek limits on, reimbursement rates.. Private third–party payors continue to try to reduce health care costs.  Private third–party payors are continuing their efforts to control health care costs through direct contracts with health care providers, increased utilization review and greater enrollment in managed care programs and preferred provider organizations. These private payors increasingly are demanding discounted fee structures and the assumption by health care providers of all or a portion of the financial risk. We could be adversely affected by the continuing efforts of private third–party payors to limit the amount of reimbursement we receive for health care services. We cannot assure you that reimbursement payment under private third–party payor programs will remain at levels comparable to present levels or will be sufficient to cover the costs allocable to patients eligible for reimbursement pursuant to such programs. Future changes in the reimbursement rates or methods of private or third–party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, or the implementation of other measures to reduce reimbursement for our services could result in a substantial reduction in our net operating revenues. Finally, as a result of competitive pressures, our ability to maintain operating margins through price increases to private patients is limited.. We are exposed to market risk due to the fact that outstanding debt and future borrowings are or will be subject to wide fluctuations based on changing interest rates. Market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. Our primary exposure to market risk is interest rate risk associated with variable rate borrowings. We currently have a $175,000,000 credit agreement. The credit agreement provides for variable rates and if market interest rates rise, so will our required interest payments on any future borrowings under the credit facility.. We currently have $100 million of debt outstanding and expect to borrow in the future to fund development and acquisitions. In the event we incur additional indebtedness, this could have important consequences to you. For example, it could:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincrease our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including material adverse regulatory changes such as reductions in reimbursement;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimit our ability to obtain financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirement, or to carry out other aspects of our business plan;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequire us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes, or to carry out other aspects of our business plan;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequire us to pledge as collateral substantially all of our assets;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequire us to maintain certain debt coverage and financial ratios at specified levels, thereby reducing our financial flexibility;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimit our ability to make material acquisitions or take advantage of business opportunities that may arise;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\texpose us to fluctuations in interest rates, to the extent our borrowings bear variable rates of interest;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tplace us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt.. 19. Table of Contents. Covenants in our Credit Agreement could restrict our activities and adversely affect our business. Our Credit Agreement contains customary representations and financial covenants which could limit our operating flexibility and prevent us from taking advantage of business opportunities, which would put us at a competitive disadvantage. Our ability to meet these requirements may be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not meet these requirements. Our failure to comply with these covenants may result in an event of default. If such event of default is not cured or waiver, we could suffer adverse effects on our operations, business or financial condition.. We are permitted to incur substantially more debt, which could further exacerbate the risks described above. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of our current debt do not completely prohibit us or our subsidiaries from incurring additional indebtedness. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify.. To service our current as well as anticipated indebtedness and future dividends, we will require a significant amount of cash, the availability of which depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including our present indebtedness, to fund planned capital expenditures, and to fund future dividend payments will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control.. We may not be able to meet all our capital needs.  We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations that anticipated revenue growth and improvement of operating efficiencies will be realized or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets or certain discretionary capital expenditures.. The performances of our fixed–income and our equity investment portfolios are subject to a variety of investment risks. Our investment portfolios are comprised principally of fixed–income securities and common equities. Our fixed–income portfolio is actively managed by an investment group and includes short–term investments and fixed–maturity securities. The performances of our fixed–income and our equity portfolios are subject to a number of risks, including:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tInterest rate risk – the risk of adverse changes in the value of fixed–income securities as a result of increases in market interest rates.. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tInvestment credit risk – the risk that the value of certain investments may decrease in value due to the deterioration in financial condition of, or the liquidity available to, one or more issuers of those securities or, in the case of asset–backed securities, due to the deterioration of the loans or other assets that underlie the securities, which, in each case, also includes the risk of permanent loss.. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tConcentration risk – the risk that the portfolio may be too heavily concentrated in the securities of NHI, or certain sectors or industries, which could result in a significant decrease in the value of the portfolio in the event of a deterioration of the financial condition, performance, or outlook of NHI, or those certain sectors or industries.. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tLiquidity risk – the risk that we will not be able to convert investments into cash on favorable terms and on a timely basis or that we will not be able to sell them at all, when we desire to do so. Disruptions in the financial markets or a lack of buyers for the specific securities that we are trying to sell, could prevent us from liquidating securities or cause a reduction in prices to levels that are not acceptable to us.. In addition, the success of our investment strategies and asset allocations in the fixed–income portfolio may vary depending on the market environment. The fixed–income portfolio's performance also may be adversely impacted if, among other factors: there is a lack of transparency regarding the underlying businesses of the issuers of the securities that we purchase; credit ratings assigned to such securities by nationally recognized credit rating agencies are based on incomplete information or prove unwarranted; or our risk mitigation strategies are ineffective for the applicable market conditions.. The common equity portfolio is subject to general movements in the values of equity markets and to the changes in the prices of the securities we hold. Equity markets, sectors, industries, and individual securities may be subject to high volatility and to long periods of depressed or declining valuations.. If the fixed–income or equity portfolios, or both, were to suffer a decrease in value due to market, sector, or issuer–specific conditions to a substantial degree, our liquidity, financial position, and financial results could be materially adversely affected.. 20. Table of Contents. Disasters and similar events may seriously harm our business. Natural and man–made disasters and similar events, including terrorist attacks and acts of nature such as hurricanes, tornados, earthquakes and wildfires, may cause damage or disruption to us, our employees and our facilities, which could have an adverse impact on our patients and our business. In order to provide care for our patients, we are dependent on consistent and reliable delivery of food, pharmaceuticals, utilities and other goods to our facilities, and the availability of employees to provide services at our facilities. If the delivery of goods or the ability of employees to reach our facilities were interrupted in any material respect due to a natural disaster or other reasons, it would have a significant impact on our facilities and our business. Furthermore, the impact, or impending threat, of a natural disaster has in the past and may in the future require that we evacuate one or more facilities, which would be costly and would involve risks, including potentially fatal risks, for the patients. The impact of disasters and similar events is inherently uncertain. Such events could harm our patients and employees, severely damage or destroy one or more of our facilities, harm our business, reputation and financial performance, or otherwise cause our business to suffer in ways that we currently cannot predict.. Our stock price is volatile and fluctuations in our operating results, quarterly earnings and other factors may result in declines in the price of our common stock. Equity markets are prone to, and in the last few years have experienced, extreme price and volume fluctuations. Volatility over the past few years has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including us and other companies in the healthcare industry. If we are unable to operate our businesses as profitably as we have in the past or as our stockholders expect us to in the future, the market price of our common stock will likely decline as stockholders could sell shares of our common stock when it becomes apparent that the market expectations may not be realized. In addition to our operating results, many economic and other factors beyond our control could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock including:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgeneral economic conditions;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdevelopments generally affecting the healthcare industry;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tstrategic actions, such as acquisitions or restructurings, or the introduction of new services by us or our competitors;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnew laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlitigation and governmental investigations;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinvestor perceptions of us and our business;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactions by institutional or other large stockholders;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tquarterly variations in operating results;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpress releases or negative publicity relating to our competitors or us or relating to trends in health care;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsales of stock by insiders;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnatural disasters, terrorist attacks and pandemics; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadditions or departures of key personnel."                                                                 
