[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Company performance is subject to varying risk factors including general business and financial risk. Any or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or results of the Company or cause the trading price of the Company's Class A common shares (ticker symbol \"NWLI\") to decline materially. This section provides an overview of possible risk exposures at this point in time that could impact Company performance in the future. Many of these risks are interrelated, ongoing, and endemic to the industry. Consequently, they could occur under similar business and economic conditions, and in turn prompt the emergence or amplify the effect of others. While these scenarios do not represent expectations of future experience, they are intended to illustrate the potential impacts if any of the following risks were to manifest into actual occurrences.. Difficult conditions globally and in the U.S. economy may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.. The Company's results from operations can be materially affected by economic conditions both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world. Even under relatively beneficial market conditions, demand for our insurance and products, as well as our investment returns, are sensitive to fixed income, equity, real estate and other fluctuations and overall economic and political conditions. General factors such as credit availability, willingness of business to invest, consumer spending, financial market conditions and inflation affect the Company's business. Demand for our products and ultimately the profitability of our business may be adversely affected by anemic activity in any or all of these areas. Our current policyholders may opt to defer or stop paying insurance premiums. High interest rates or inflation could induce those holding interest-sensitive life insurance and annuity products of the Company to begin an elevated level of discretionary withdrawals of policy funds. Conversely, low interest rates and inflation could cause persistency of our products to vary from that anticipated and adversely affect profitability. In addition, changing economic conditions may serve to create unfavorable public perception of financial institutions and influence policyholder behavior. Changes as detailed above could negatively affect our net income and have a material effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company cannot foretell the occurrence of economic trends or the timing of changes in such trends.. Our investment portfolio is subject to several risks which may lessen the value of invested assets and the amounts credited to policyholders.. The Company primarily invests monies received in investment grade, fixed income investment securities in order to meet its obligations to policyholders and provide a return on its deployed capital. Accordingly, our business is exposed to customary risks of debt markets including credit defaults and changes in fair value. Adverse market conditions can affect the liquidity and value of our investments and we are subject to the credit risk that issuers of these securities may default on principal and interest payments, particularly in the event of an ongoing downturn in the economic and/or business climate. A ratings downgrade affecting issuers of particular securities could worsen the credit quality of our investments and could increase the amount of capital we must hold to maintain our risk-based capital levels which are monitored by regulators and rating agencies. At December 31, 2017, approximately 0.9% of the Company's $10.3 billion fixed income securities portfolio was comprised of issuers who were investment grade at the time the Company acquired them but were subsequently downgraded for various reasons. Although this is an extremely low percentage compared to industry averages, a substantial increase in defaults from these or other issuers could negatively impact the Company's financial position and results of operations.. 16. Table of Contents. For the Company's fixed-index products, over the counter derivative instruments (index options) are purchased from a number of highly-rated counterparties to fund the index credit provided to policyholders. These index options consist primarily of one-year call options. Market conditions could cause these instruments to not perform as intended or expected and result in higher realized losses and unforeseen stresses on liquidity. They may also limit the availability of these hedging instruments or further increase the cost of executing product related hedges which may be difficult to recover in the pricing of our underlying products. Amounts that the Company expects to collect under derivative contracts are subject to counterparty risk. In the event that any of these counterparties fails to meet their contractual obligations under these derivative instruments, the Company would be financially at risk for providing the credits due that the counterparty reneged on. The Company attempts to offset this risk through careful credit evaluation of counterparties, diversification of holdings among numerous institutions, and use of credit support agreements requiring counterparties to provide collateral at specified threshold levels. Although the Company has never had a counterparty default on its obligations, the failure of counterparties to perform could negatively impact the Company's financial strength and reduce the Company's profitability.. The concentration of the Company's portfolio in any particular issuer, asset classes, industries, or geographic areas could have an adverse effect on our investment portfolios and, therefore, the Company's results of operations and financial position. In order to minimize this risk, the Company's investment guidelines contain maximum exposure thresholds to concentrations of risk in order to promote a broadly diversified portfolio. Disruptions in individual market sectors within our investment portfolio could result in significant realized and unrealized losses.. Significant financial and credit market volatility, changes in interest rates and credit spread margins, credit defaults, market illiquidity, declines in equity prices, ratings downgrades of the issuers of debt securities, and declines in general economic conditions, either singularly or in combination, could have a material adverse impact on the Company's results of operations and financial condition through realized losses, impairments, and changes in unrealized loss positions.. The determination of valuation and impairments of fixed income securities include estimations and assumptions that are subjective and prone to differing interpretations and could materially impact our results of operations or financial condition.. The Company makes assumptions regarding the fair value and expected performance of its investments. During periods of market disruption and volatility, it becomes more difficult to evaluate securities, particularly if trading becomes less frequent or market data becomes less observable. Fair value of certain securities may be based upon one or more significant unobservable inputs even in typical market conditions. As a result, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation and judgment as well as valuation methods which are more complex. These values may not be ultimately realizable in a market transaction and may change rapidly as market conditions change and assumptions are modified. We also consider a wide range of factors about security issuers in evaluating the cause of a decline in the estimated fair value of a security and in assessing the prospects for recovery. Inherent in this evaluation are assumptions about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. Such evaluations are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available.. The decision on whether to record an other-than-temporary impairment is determined by our assessment of the financial condition and prospects of a particular issuer, projections of future cash flows and recoverability as well as our ability and intent to hold the securities to recovery or maturity. Expectations that the Company's investments in corporate debt securities will continue to perform in accordance with their contractual terms are based on evidence gathered through our normal credit surveillance process. However, historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments and our conclusions concerning the recoverability of any particular security's market price could ultimately prove to be invalid as facts and circumstances change. Rapidly changing and unprecedented credit market conditions make it possible that issuers of the Company's investments in corporate securities and/or debt obligations will perform worse than current expectations. Consequently, there can be no assurance that we have accurately assessed the level of impairments in our financial statements or that additional impairments may not need to be taken in the future. It is also possible that unanticipated events may lead the Company to dispose of such investments and recognize the effects of any market movements in its financial statements.. We are subject to changing interest rates and credit spreads, market volatility, and general economic conditions which may affect the risk and returns on both our investment portfolio and our products.. We are exposed to significant capital market risk related to changes in interest rates. Our investment performance, including yields and realization of gains and losses, may vary depending on economic and market conditions. Substantial and sustained changes, up or down, in market interest rate levels can materially affect the profitability of our products, the market value of our investments, and ultimately the reported amount of stockholders' equity.. 17. Table of Contents. A rise in interest rates will increase the net unrealized loss position of our investment portfolio and may subject the Company to disintermediation risk. Disintermediation risk is the risk that in a change from a period of low interest rates to a period of significantly higher and increasing interest rates more policyholders than assumed in the product pricing assumptions may surrender their contracts or make early withdrawals in order to increase their returns, potentially requiring the Company to liquidate investments in an unrealized loss position (i.e. the market value less than the carrying value of the investments). The Company manages its liabilities and configures its investment portfolio so as to provide and maintain sufficient liquidity to support expected withdrawal demands. If the Company experiences an unexpected increased level of withdrawal or surrender activity, it could exhaust liquid assets and be forced to liquidate other assets at a loss or on other unfavorable terms. With respect to fixed income security investments maintained in the Company's \"Available for Sale\" category that are reported at fair values, rising interest rates will cause declines in the market value of these securities. These declines are reported in our financial statements as an unrealized investment loss and a reduction of stockholders' equity.. There may be occasions where the Company could encounter difficulty selling some of its investments due to a lack of liquidity in the marketplace. If the Company required significant amounts of cash during such a period, it may have difficulty selling investments at attractive prices, in a timely manner or both.. Significant changes in interest rates expose insurance companies to the risk of not realizing the anticipated spread between the interest rates earned on investments and the credited rates paid on in force policies and contracts. A decline in interest rates could expose the Company to reduced profitability due to minimum interest rate guarantees that are required in our products by regulation. When interest rates decline or remain low, as has been the case in recent years, the Company will have to reinvest investment portfolio cash proceeds in lower-yielding instruments, further reducing investment income. As a key component of profitability, a narrowing of investment spreads (\"spread compression\") could negatively affect operating results. Although the Company has the ability to adjust the rates credited on products in order to maintain our required investment spread, a significant decline in interest rate levels could affect investment yields to the point where the investment spread is compromised due to minimum interest rate guarantees. In addition, the potential for increased policy surrenders and cash withdrawals, competitor activities, and other factors could further limit the Company's ability to maintain crediting rates on its products at levels necessary to avoid sacrificing investment spread.. When interest rates rise, the Company may not be able to replenish assets in its investment portfolio as rapidly with higher-yielding investments needed to fund/support the higher interest rates necessary to have its product offerings for sale remain competitive. Conversely, a prolonged period during which interest rates remain at lower levels may cause policies to remain in force for longer periods than anticipated in our pricing exposing the Company to additional spread compression and potentially greater claim costs than expected.. Due to regulatory and information system support considerations, delays may occur between the time the Company analyzes the need to make changes in the rates it credits on its products and other assumptions used for product pricing and the time the Company is able to reflect these changes in it products available for sale. These delays could negatively impact the long-term profitability of product sales during the interim period.. Changes in interest rates may also impact the Company's business in other ways. The Company's expectation for future interest earnings and spreads is an important component in determining the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs (\"DPAC\") and deferred sales inducements (\"DSI\"). Significantly lower than expected interest earnings or spreads may cause the Company to accelerate its amortization of DPAC and DSI thereby reducing net income in a reporting period. Additionally, during periods of declining interest rates, life insurance and annuity products may be relatively more attractive savings alternatives to consumers resulting in increased premium payments on products with flexible premium features, repayment of policy loans, or otherwise a higher persistency of policies remaining in force from year-to-year during a period when the Company's investments carry lower returns.. The profitability of the Company's fixed-index products, whose crediting rate mechanism is linked in part to market indices, is significantly affected by the cost of underlying call options purchased to fund the credits owed to contract holders selecting this form of interest crediting. If there are little or no gains on the call options purchased over the expected life of these fixed-index products, the Company would incur expenses for credited interest over and above the option costs. In addition, if the Company does not successfully match the terms of the underlying call options purchased with the terms of the fixed-index products, the index credits could exceed call option proceeds. This would serve to reduce the Company's spread on the products and decrease profits.. We are subject to incurring difficulties in marketing and distributing our products through our current and future distribution channels.. 18. Table of Contents. The Company distributes its life and annuity products through independent broker-agents and consultants. These product distributors are not captive and may sell products of competitors of the Company. There is substantial competition, particularly in the Company's domestic market, for independent broker-agents with the demonstrated ability to market and sell insurance products. Competition for these individuals or organizations typically centers on company reputation, products and their features, compensation, home office support services and the insurer's financial position and independent strength ratings. Competitiveness for such individuals and organizations also depends upon the relationships the Company develops with them. An interruption in key relationships could materially affect our ability to market products. Distributors may also elect to reduce or terminate their distribution relationships with the Company at any time. We are further at risk that key distribution partners may change their mode of conducting business that affects how our products are sold. The Company's future sales and financial condition are dependent upon avoiding significant interruptions in attracting and retaining independent broker-agents and consultants.. As technology continues to evolve, such as the use of so called \"robo-advisors\", comparison of a particular product of any company for a particular customer with competing products for that customer will become more readily available, which could also lead to increased competition as well as affecting agent, consultant and customer behavior.. We are subject to a downgrade in our financial strength ratings which may negatively affect our ability to attract and retain independent distributors, make our products less attractive to consumers, and may have an adverse effect on our operations.. Financial strength ratings are important criteria in establishing the competitive position of insurers. While financial strength ratings are not a recommendation to buy the Company's products, these ratings are important to maintaining public confidence in the Company, its products, and its competitive position. Ratings generally reflect the rating agencies' quantitative and qualitative view of a particular company's financial strength, operating performance, and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders. However, since some of the rating factors often relate to the particular and subjective views of the rating agency, their independent economic modeling, the general economic climate, and other circumstances, these are largely outside of the insurer's control. During 2017, Standard & Poor's upgraded National Western's negative outlook to stable, primarily due to the Company's successful efforts to build its capital resources and to consistently produce profitable outcomes . We cannot predict with any certainty what future actions rating agencies may take.. A downgrade in our financial strength rating, or an announced potential downgrade, could potentially affect our competitive position making it more difficult to market our products vis-à-vis competitors with higher financial strength ratings, and/or hurt our relationships with distributors, reinsurers and other business partners. In extreme situations, a significant downgrade action by one or more rating agencies could cause a decrease in the sale of our products, prompt defections within our independent sales force, and induce existing policyholders to cancel their policies and withdraw funds from the Company. Currently, the major rating agencies, including A.M. Best and Standard & Poor's, have revised previously stable outlooks on the U.S. life insurance industry to negative given the prolonged duration of low interest rates levels and the impact of the Department of Labor's fiduciary standard upon equity-indexed annuity sales, among other factors. Regardless of their current view, these rating agencies could revise their benchmarks regarding levels of capital, earnings, and other metrics that align with particular rating levels and impact their rating assessments of U.S. life insurance companies. These events could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and liquidity.. We are subject to competition from new sources as well as companies having substantially greater financial resources, higher ratings, and more expansive product offerings which could have an adverse impact upon our business levels and profitability.. Life insurance is a mature and highly competitive industry. Our ability to compete is based upon a variety of factors including financial strength ratings, competitive products, quality of service, scale, and distribution capacity. There has been considerable consolidation among companies in the insurance and financial sectors resulting in large, well-capitalized entities that offer products comparable to the Company who have greater market share or breadth of distribution, higher financial strength ratings, and offer a broader range of products and services. Frequently, these larger organizations are not domiciled in the United States or are financial services entities attempting to establish a position in the insurance industry. In  recent years, Chinese and Japanese financial institutions have become active in acquiring U.S. insurers. These larger competitors often enjoy better name recognition and economies of scale which produce lower operating costs and the wherewithal to absorb greater risk allowing them to price products more competitively and, in turn, attract independent distributors. Such competition could result in lower sales or higher lapses of existing products. In addition, since the actual cost of products is not precisely known when they are sold, the Company is exposed to competitors who may sell products at prices that do not cover actual costs. Consequently, the Company may encounter additional pricing pressures to lower prices for similar products and be challenged to maintain market share, profit margin targets and profitability criteria. Due to these competitive forces, the Company may not be able to effectively compete without negative effects on our financial position and results of operations.. We are subject to regulation, changes to existing laws, and investigations that may affect our profitability or means of operations.. 19. Table of Contents. The Company is subject to extensive laws and regulations which are complex and subject to change. In addition, these laws and regulations are enforced by a number of different authorities including, but not limited to, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (\"NAIC\"), individual state insurance regulators, the Securities and Exchange Commission (\"SEC\"), state attorney generals, and the U.S. Department of Justice. Compliance with these laws and regulations is time consuming and any changes may materially increase our compliance costs and other expenses of doing business. The regulatory framework at the state and  federal level pertaining to insurance products and practices is advancing and could affect not only the design of our products but our ability to continue to sell certain products.. The Company is subject to government regulation in each of the states in which it conducts business with such regulation vested in state agencies having broad administrative power dealing with many aspects of the Company's business. Regulators oversee matters relating to sales practices, policy forms, claims practices, types and amounts of investments, reserve adequacy, insurer solvency, minimum amounts of capital and surplus, transactions with related parties, and payments of dividends. At any given time, the Company may be subject to a number of financial, market conduct, or other examinations or audits. These examinations or audits may result in payment of fines and penalties as well as changes in systems or procedures, any of these could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations. Other NAIC or state insurance regulator actions, such as the adoption of principles-based reserving or changes to RBC calculations, may adversely impact our business from time to time.. Life insurer products generally offer tax advantages to policyholders via the deferral of income tax on policy earnings during the accumulation phase of the product, be it an annuity or a life insurance product, as compared to other savings instruments such as certificates of deposit and taxable bonds. Taxes are payable on income attributable to a distribution under a policy/contract for the year in which the distribution is made as opposed to the current taxation of other savings instruments. In addition, death benefit proceeds maintain a tax-free status. Periodically, Congress has considered legislation that would reduce or eliminate this tax advantage inherent to the life insurance industry and subject the industry's products to treatment more equivalent with other investments. In the event that the tax status of life insurance products is revised or reduced by Congress all life insurers would be adversely impacted.. Insurance companies that do business in a particular state are subject to assessment up to certain prescribed limits by that state's insurance guaranty association to provide funds to help pay for policyholder losses or liabilities of insolvent insurance companies. The financial crisis of 2008 and 2009 weakened the financial condition of numerous insurers, including insurers already in the state of receivership, thus increasing the risk of sparking guaranty fund assessments. As the amount and timing of assessments by state insurance guaranty associations is outside of the Company's control, the liabilities provided for these potential assessments in our financial statements may differ from the amounts ultimately assessed.. In 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act (\"Dodd-Frank\") was enacted into law. Dodd-Frank called for expansive changes in the regulation and oversight of the financial industry intended to provide for greater supervision of financial industry entities, reduction of risk in banking practices and in securities and derivatives trading, enhancement of public company corporate governance practices and executive compensation disclosures, and greater protections to individual consumers and investors. Numerous provisions of Dodd-Frank required adoption of implementing rules and/or regulations. The process of adopting these have been substantially delayed beyond the timeframes imposed by Dodd-Frank. Dodd-Frank established a Federal Insurance Office with the Department of Treasury.  The director of this office is required to conduct a study on how to modernize and improve the system of insurance regulation in the United States, accomplished by increased national uniformity through either a federal charter or effective action by the states. Legislative or regulatory requirements imposed may impact the Company in a variety of ways including placing the Company at a competitive disadvantage relative to its competition or other financial service entities, changing the competitive framework of the financial services sector and/or life insurance industry, making it more expensive for the Company to conduct its business, or requiring the reallocation of Company resources to legal and compliance-related activities. The 2017 change in the White House Administration has caused speculation as to whether many aspects of Dodd-Frank will be rescinded given their anti-competitive and compliance costly nature. Consequently, the impact of Dodd-Frank on the Company, as well as that on the financial industry and economy cannot be determined until all the rules and regulations called for under the Act have been finalized and implemented, if at all.. 20. Table of Contents. In 2016, the Department of Labor (\"DOL\") promulgated a conflict-of-interest fiduciary regulation, accompanied by new class exemptions and amendments to long-standing exemptions from the prohibited transaction provisions under ERISA, redefining who is considered to be a \"fiduciary\" for purposes of transactions with plans, plan participants and IRAs. The new rules effectively impose limits on interactions with existing and prospective customers for life insurance and annuity products that are qualified transactions. With the advent of the Trump Administration, the DOL acted to delay the effective date multiple times in order to more thoroughly consider the requirements of the regulation. The current delay extending until July 2019 postpones the implementation of the Best Interest Contract Exemption provision which is the most contentious issue for the life insurance industry. We may experience increased costs if we need to adapt our technology and operational infrastructure to meet disclosure and compliance requirements under the rule if ultimately retained as enacted. Our compliance with these rules could lead to a loss of customers and revenues, and otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. The Company's operations are centralized at its Austin, Texas location and it is licensed to do business in forty-nine states (except New York) and various other U.S. territories and possessions and is regulated by the insurance departments in each of these locations. Although not otherwise licensed, the Company also accepts applications from and issues dollar-denominated policies to residents outside of the United States. From time to time insurance regulators in these non-U.S. locations have sought to exercise regulatory authority over the Company including the imposition of substantial penal fines. Although these non-U.S. regulators have no jurisdiction over the Company and any actions, including fines, would be unenforceable against the Company, the threat of regulatory action could impede the submission of future applications from residents in these locations. The Company's future sales and financial condition are dependent upon avoiding significant interruptions in receiving applications from residents outside of the United States.. The Brazilian authorities commenced an investigation into possible violations of Brazilian criminal law in connection with the issuance of the Company's insurance policies to Brazilian residents, and in assistance of such investigation a Commissioner appointed by the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Texas issued a subpoena upon the Company several years ago to provide information relating to such possible violations .  No conclusion can be drawn at this time as to its outcome or how such outcome may impact the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition.  The Company has been cooperating with the relevant governmental authorities the past several years in regard to this matter.  See \"Legal Proceedings\" in Item 3 of Part I of this report.. Changes in accounting standards issued by standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements and affect the management of business operations.. The Company's financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (\"GAAP\") as delineated in the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") Accounting Standards Codification (\"FASB ASC\"). GAAP is subject to constant review by various policy-setting organizations to address emerging accounting rules and issue interpretative accounting guidance. From time to time, the Company is required to adopt new or revise accounting standards or guidance that has been integrated into the FASB ASC. For example, the FASB has an ongoing project to revise the accounting standards for insurance contracts. While the final resolution of changes to GAAP from this particular project is unclear, future accounting standards required to be adopted could possibly change the current accounting treatment that the Company uses in its Consolidated Financial Statements and such changes could possibly have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. In addition, the FASB has been working on several projects with the International Accounting Standards Board (\"IASB\") over the years which could produce significant changes if GAAP converges with International Financial Reporting Standards (\"IFRS\"). These projects include how the Company accounts for its insurance contracts and financial instruments and how its financial statements are prepared and presented. Although most of these efforts have stalled at this point in time, filers in the U.S. could be required to report financial results in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB rather than GAAP were this initiative to be resumed. Despite the uncertainty of any deliberations involving convergence of GAAP and IFRS, adoption of IFRS would be a complete change to the Company's accounting and reporting. The changes to GAAP and the ultimate conversion to IFRS would invoke new demands on public companies in the areas of governance, internal controls, employee training, and disclosure and will likely affect how business operations are managed. The Company is unable to predict whether, and if so, when this effort will be resumed, adopted and/or implemented.. The Company is also required to comply with statutory accounting principles (\"SAP\") which are subject to constant review by the NAIC and related task forces and committees. Various proposals either are currently or have been previously pending before the NAIC. The Company cannot predict whether or in what form reforms will be enacted by state legislatures and whether the enacted reforms will positively or negatively affect the Company.. 21. Table of Contents. We may be subject to unfavorable judicial developments, including the time and expense of litigation, which potentially could affect our financial position and results of operations.. Financial services companies are frequently targets of legal proceedings, including class action litigation. In the ordinary course of business, we are involved in various legal actions common to the life insurance industry, some of which may occasionally assert claims for large amounts. Companies in the life insurance and annuity lines of business have encountered litigation pertaining to allegations of improper sales practices in connection with the sale of life insurance, improper product design and disclosures, marketing unsuitable products to customers especially in the senior market, bad faith in the handling of insurance claims, and other similar pleas. Some of these proceedings have been brought on behalf of various alleged classes of complainants. In addition, life insurance companies are subject to risk of errors and misconduct of the agents selling their products for fraud, non-compliance with policies and recommending products or transactions that are not suitable in a particular situation. Often these legal proceedings have involved plaintiffs seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts and resulted in the award of substantial amounts disproportionate to the actual damages including material amounts of punitive compensatory or exemplary damages. In some states, judges and juries have substantial discretion in awarding punitive and compensatory damages which creates the potential for material adverse judgments or awards. In the event of an unfavorable outcome in one or more matters, the ultimate liability may be in excess of the liabilities established in the Company's accounts.. Legal liability or adverse publicity emanating from current or future legal actions, whether or not they actually involve the Company, could have an adverse effect on us or cause us reputational harm, which could, in turn, impair our prospective business. Given the inherent unpredictability of litigation, and the potential complexity and scope of such actions, there can be no assurance that such litigation, current or in the future, will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations or cash flows in any particular reporting period. In addition, such matters may become more frequent and/or severe in the event that general economic conditions deteriorate.. We could be liable with respect to liabilities ceded to reinsurers if the reinsurers fail to meet the obligations assumed by them.. The Company cedes material amounts of insurance to other unaffiliated insurance companies through reinsurance. New sales of life products are reinsured within prescribed limits and do not require the reinsurer's prior approval within certain guidelines. The Company's maximum retention limit on an insured life is $500,000.  However, these reinsurance arrangements do not fully discharge the Company's obligation to pay benefits on the reinsured business. If a reinsurer fails to meet its obligations, the Company would be forced to cover these claims. In addition, if a reinsurer becomes insolvent, it may cause the Company to lose its reserve credits on the ceded business which require the establishment of additional reserves. To mitigate the risks associated with the use of reinsurance, the Company carefully monitors the ratings and financial condition of its reinsurers on a regular basis and attempts to avoid concentration of credit risks by spreading its business among several reinsurers in order to diversify its risk exposure.. The Company's ability to be competitive is affected by the availability of reinsurance. The availability and cost of reinsurance protection are impacted by our operating and financial performance as well as conditions beyond our control. In recent years, the number of life reinsurers has decreased as the reinsurance industry has consolidated. The lower number of life reinsurers has resulted in increased concentration of risk for insurers. If the cost of reinsurance were to increase or become unavailable, the Company could be adversely impacted.. We are subject to policy claims experience which can fluctuate from period to period and vary from past results or expectations.. The Company's earnings are significantly influenced by policy claims received and will vary from period to period depending upon the amount of claims incurred. In any given quarter or year, there is very limited predictability of claims experience. The liability established for future policy benefits is based upon a number of different factors. Our mortality experience could be adversely impacted by a catastrophic event such as a natural disaster, terrorist attack or pandemic event. Significant deviations in actual experience from pricing assumptions could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our products. Some of the Company's products permit premium increases or adjustment of other charges or credits during the life of a policy, but the adjustments permitted under the terms of the policies may not be sufficient to maintain profitability or may induce policies to lapse. Many of our products do not permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits or otherwise limit the adjustments we can make during the life of a policy. There may be instances in which we may not be able or willing to raise premiums or adjust other charges sufficiently for competitive reasons. Consequently, in the event our future claim experience does not match our past results or pricing assumptions, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected.. We are subject to assumption inaccuracies regarding future mortality, persistency, and interest rates used in determining deferred policy acquisition costs which may require us to accelerate our amortization.. 22. Table of Contents. In the course of business, the Company makes certain assumptions regarding mortality, policy persistency, expenses, interest rates, business mix, investment performance and other factors concerning the type of business experience expected in future periods. Deferred policy acquisition costs (\"DPAC\") and deferred sales inducement (\"DSI\") amounts are calculated using a number of these assumptions. DPAC represent costs that vary with and are primarily related to the acquisition of new insurance and annuity contracts while DSI represents first year bonus interest amounts that are credited to policyholder account balances as an inducement to purchase the policy. Both are amortized over the expected lives of the policies. Amortization is dependent upon actual and estimated future gross profits (\"EGP\") generated by the lines of business that incurred the related expenses and are amortized over the expected lives of the corresponding contracts. The principal assumptions for determining EGP are mortality, persistency, expenses, investment returns (including capital gains and losses on assets supporting contract liabilities), and interest crediting rates to contract holders. DPAC and DSI recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets are tested to determine if they are recoverable under current assumptions. The estimates and assumptions used to amortize these deferred costs proportional to expected gross profits are also regularly reviewed.  Due to the uncertainty associated with establishing these assumptions, the Company cannot, with precision, determine the exact pattern of profit emergence. Updates to these assumptions (commonly referred to as \"unlocking\") could result in an acceleration of amortization of DPAC and DSI. Accordingly, actual results could differ from the related assumptions which could have a material and adverse impact on the Company's operating results.. Assumptions and estimates involve judgment, and by their nature are imprecise and subject to changes and revisions over time. The Company's results may be affected, positively or negatively, by actual results differing from assumptions, by changes in estimates, and by changes resulting from implementing more sophisticated administrative systems and procedures that facilitate the calculation of more precise estimates.. Occurrence of natural or man-made disasters and catastrophes could adversely affect our ability to conduct business operations and the financial condition and results of operations.. The occurrence of natural disasters and catastrophes, including earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, tornadoes, fires, explosions, pandemic disease and man-made disasters, including acts of terrorism and military actions, could adversely affect the financial condition or results of operations of the Company. Such disasters and catastrophes could impact the Company directly by damaging our facilities, preventing employees from performing their duties or otherwise disturbing the Company's ordinary business operations, as well as indirectly by changing the condition and behaviors of consumers, business counterparties and regulators and potentially causing declines or volatility in economic and financial markets. Disasters or a pandemic outbreak could disrupt public and private infrastructure, including communications and financial services, which could disrupt the Company's normal business operations. A terrorist attack affecting financial institutions could negatively impact the financial services industry as a whole and our business operations, investment portfolio and our profitability. In addition, such events and conditions could result in a decrease or halt in economic activity in large geographic regions, adversely impacting the marketing of the Company's business within such geographic areas which in turn could have an adverse effect on the Company. There can be no assurance that our business continuity plans and insurance coverages would be effective in mitigating any negative effects on our operations or profitability in the event of a terrorist attack or other disaster.. The effects of natural and man-made disasters and catastrophes on the Company's business include, but are not limited to: an acceleration of the timing in which benefits are paid under the Company's insurance policies due to catastrophic loss of life, unexpected changes in persistency rates as policyholders affected by disaster may be unable to meet their contractual obligations, harm to the financial condition of the Company's reinsurers due to an increase in claims thereby impacting the cost and availability of reinsurance and possibly increasing the probability of default on reinsurance recoveries, and heightened volatility, loss of liquidity and credit impairment in the financial markets resulting in harm to the Company's financial condition.. Our enterprise risk management practices and procedures may prove to be ineffective exposing us to unidentified or unanticipated risks.. The Company maintains an enterprise-wide risk management framework to mitigate risk and loss to the Company. Under this framework we maintain policies, procedures and controls intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the risks to which the Company is exposed. There are, however, inherent limitations to risk management strategies because there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified. If our risk management framework bears out as to being ineffective, the Company may suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected.. 23. Table of Contents. As our business changes and the markets in which we operate evolve, our risk management framework may not advance at the same pace as those changes. As a result, there is a risk that new products or new business strategies may present risks that are not appropriately identified, monitored or managed. Many of our risk management strategies or techniques are based upon historical customer and market behavior and all such strategies and techniques are based to some degree on management's subjective judgment. We cannot provide assurance that our risk management framework, including the underlying assumptions or strategies, will be accurate and effective. Management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies, procedures and controls to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies, procedures and controls may not be fully effective. In addition, there can be no assurance that controls and procedures that we employ, which are designed to monitor associates' business decisions and prevent us from taking excessive or inappropriate risks, will be effective.. We are dependent upon effective information technology systems and the development and implementation of new technologies.. The Company's business operations are technology dependent for maintaining accurate records, administering complex contract provisions, and complying with increasingly demanding regulation. While systems developments can streamline many processes and in the long term reduce the cost of doing business, these initiatives can present short-term cost and implementation risks. Projections of expenses, implementation time frames and the ultimate enhancement values may be different from expectations and escalate over time. The Company also faces rising costs and time constraints in meeting data security compliance requirements of new and proposed regulations. These increased risks and expanding requirements expose the Company to potential data loss and damages and significant increases in compliance and litigation costs.. The Company relies heavily on its telecommunication and computer systems to conduct business, service customers, and produce financial statements. These systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events wholly or in part beyond our control. Further, we are at risk of third party vendors and parties which the Company utilizes for services, or to which we outsource the provision of services, incurring operational or technology failures. While policies, procedures and back-up plans designed to prevent or minimize the effect of incapacity or failure are maintained, the Company's computer systems may be vulnerable to disruptions or breaches which cause operational difficulties, increased costs, or other adverse effects on our business. The Company's computer systems may be inaccessible to its employees, business partners, and customers for an extended period of time. Even if employees of the Company are able to report to work, they may be unable to perform their duties if the Company's data or systems are disabled or destroyed. The failure or incapacity of any of the Company's computer systems could potentially disrupt operations, damage our reputation and adversely impact our profitability. Unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery or business continuity plans and systems could have a material adverse impact on our ability to resume and conduct business.. Despite implementation of a program of security measures, our information technology and other systems could be subject to physical or electronic break-ins, unauthorized tampering or other security breaches. The Company retains confidential information on its systems, including customer information and proprietary business information, and relies on sophisticated commercial technologies and third parties to maintain the security of those systems and information. The increasing volume and sophistication of computer viruses, hackers and other external threats may increase the vulnerability of the Company's systems to data breaches. Even given our efforts to ensure the integrity of our systems, it is possible that we may not be able to anticipate all types of security breaches, especially in light of the ever-evolving techniques used by hackers, the inability to recognize invasive attacks until launched, and the capability of cyber attacks originating from a wide variety of sources.  Anyone who is able to circumvent the Company's security measures could access, view, misappropriate, alter, or delete any information in the systems, including personally identifiable customer information, customer financial information, and proprietary business information. Security breaches or other technological failures may also produce regulatory inquiries, proceedings, litigation costs, and reputational damage. An increasing number of states require customers to be notified of any unauthorized access, use, or disclosure of their information. We may incur reimbursement and other expenses, including litigation settlements and other additional compliance costs.. The Company's business is dependent on the ability to keep up to date with effective, secure and advanced technology systems to reach a large number of people, provide sizable amounts of information, and secure and store vast quantities of data through our technology systems. Some of the Company's information technology systems are older legacy-type systems and require an ongoing commitment of resources to maintain current standards. These legacy systems are written in older programming languages with which fewer and fewer individuals are knowledgeable of and trained in. The Company's success is in large part dependent on maintaining and enhancing the effectiveness of existing legacy systems until converting to newer technologies and failure of these systems for any reason could disrupt our operations, result in the loss of business and adversely impact our profitability.. 24. Table of Contents. Interruption in telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems, or a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data residing on such systems, whether due to actions by us or others, could delay or disrupt our ability to do business and service our customers, harm our reputation, result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, subject us to substantial regulatory sanctions and other claims, lead to a loss of customers and revenues or financial loss to our customers and otherwise adversely affect our business.. The Company could be adversely affected by changes to tax law or interpretations of existing tax law which could reduce the demand for certain insurance products.. The Internal Revenue Code (the \"IRC\") provides that income tax payable on investment earnings of certain life insurance and annuity products is deferred during the accumulation period of the policies/contracts until payments are made to the policyholder or other beneficiary giving certain of the Company's products a competitive advantage over other non-insurance products. In addition, life insurance death benefits paid under terms of the policy are generally exempt from income tax. If the IRC were amended to reduce or eliminate the tax-deferred status of life insurance and annuity products, all life insurance companies, including the Company, would be adversely affected with respect to the ability to sell these products. Such changes in tax law could make the tax advantages of investing in certain life insurance and annuity products less attractive and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.. In addition, the Company is subject to federal corporate income taxes but receives the benefit of certain tax provisions, including but not limited to, dividends-received deductions and insurance reserve deductions. Due to a variety of factors including the current Federal budget deficit and ongoing proposals from the U.S. Department of Treasury, from time to time Congress and various state legislatures entertain revenue-raising proposals contrary to the life insurance industry, either by raising rates or otherwise changing tax rules, and there is a risk that federal tax legislation could be enacted lessening or eliminating some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting the Company and result in higher taxes. The Tax Cuts and Job Act (\"Tax Act\") which was passed in December 2017, besides reducing the federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, amended certain tax items unique to the life insurance industry which serve to increase the Company's federal taxable income. Chief among these in the Tax Act were the capping of the amount of tax reserves that the Company could currently deduct below previous thresholds and increasing the amount of acquisition expenses the Company is required to defer for deduction to future periods.. The level of profitability of the Company's products is significantly dependent upon current tax law and the Company's ability to generate taxable income, which is incorporated into our product design and pricing. Consequently, changes in tax law could impact product pricing and returns or require the Company to reduce sales of certain products or otherwise implement other courses of action that could be disruptive to our business. The Company cannot predict what other changes to tax laws or interpretations of existing tax law may ultimately be enacted or adopted, or whether such changes will adversely affect the Company.. The Company may be required to establish a valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets which could materially affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. Differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases give rise to deferred tax assets. These deferred tax assets represent future tax savings that would otherwise be paid in cash. GAAP requires that such deferred tax assets be analyzed for their future realizability which is dependent upon the generation of sufficient future taxable income with which to utilize the deferred tax assets. If it is determined that it is more likely than not all or a portion of the deferred tax assets cannot be realized, then an offsetting valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income.. The Company's current assessment of future taxable income in combination with the consideration of available tax planning opportunities has determined that it is more likely than not that it will generate sufficient taxable income to realize its deferred tax assets. This assessment of the realizability of our deferred tax assets requires significant judgment. If future events deviate from the Company's current assessment and cause a failure to achieve our projections, a valuation allowance may need to be established which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition. The Company's year-end net deferred tax assets reflect the top marginal corporate income tax rate of 21% prescribed by the Tax Act. Any future reduction in this rate would cause a further write-down of our deferred tax assets.. Competition for employees is intense and the Company may not be able to attract and retain highly skilled people needed to support its business.. 25. Table of Contents. The Company's success and ability to reach goals is dependent upon its ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. The market for qualified personnel is extremely competitive and the Company may not be able to hire or retain key people. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of the company's key personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Company's operations due to their skills, unique knowledge of our business, years of industry experience and the potential difficulty of quickly finding qualified replacements. The Company has largely managed to sustain lower than average employee turnover and retained valued employees with decades of experience in the Company's products, business and systems. However, as these individuals attain retirement age, the Company is exposed to the loss of cumulative knowledge in its operations. The Company's employees, including named executive officers, are not subject to employee contracts. Sales in our lines of business and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if the Company is unsuccessful in attracting and retaining qualified individuals or its recruiting and retention costs increase significantly."
