[1] "ITEM 1A.     RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Business. To the extent our board of directors deems appropriate, it may determine to decrease the amount of our quarterly distribution or suspend or eliminate the distribution altogether. In addition, our debt agreements and our partnership agreement place restrictions on our ability to pay the quarterly distribution under certain circumstances.. Because distributions on the common units are dependent on the amount of cash we generate, distributions fluctuate based on our performance. The actual amount of cash that is available to be distributed each quarter depends on numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and the control of the general partner. Cash distributions are dependent primarily on cash flow, and not solely on profitability, which is affected by non-cash items. Therefore, cash distributions might be made during periods when we record losses and might not be made during periods when we record profits. The actual amount of cash we have to distribute each quarter is reduced by payments in respect of debt service and other contractual obligations, including distributions on the preferred units, fixed charges, maintenance capital expenditures and reserves for future operating or capital needs that the board of directors may determine are appropriate. We still have significant debt service obligations and obligations to pay cash distributions on our preferred units. To the extent our board of directors deems appropriate, it may determine to decrease the amount of the quarterly distribution on our common units or suspend or eliminate the distribution on our common units altogether. In addition, because our unitholders are required to pay income taxes on their respective shares of our taxable income, our unitholders may be required to pay taxes in excess of any future distributions we make. Our unitholders' share of our portfolio income may be taxable to them even though they receive other losses from our activities. See \" - Tax Risks to Our Unitholders - Our unitholders are required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Our unitholders' share of our portfolio income may be taxable to them even though they receive other losses from our activities.\". The agreements governing our indebtedness and preferred units restrict our ability to raise, and in some cases continue to pay, distributions on our common units. Opco's revolving credit agreement, the indenture governing our 2022 Notes and our partnership agreement each require that we meet certain consolidated leverage tests in order to raise our quarterly distribution on the common units above the current level of $0.45 per quarter. The maximum leverage covenant under Opco's revolving credit facility will step down permanently from 4.0x to 3.0x if we increase the common unit distribution above the current level. In addition, under our partnership agreement, to the extent we have paid any distributions on the preferred units in kind (\"PIK units\"), and such PIK units are still outstanding at any time after January 1, 2022, we will be prohibited from making any distributions with respect to our common units until we have redeemed all such PIK units in cash. For more information on restrictions on our ability to make distributions on our common units, see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources\" and \"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 13. Debt.\". Our leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects.. As of December 31, 2017, we and our subsidiaries had approximately $827.8 million of total indebtedness. The terms and conditions governing the indenture for NRP's 2022 Notes and Opco's revolving credit facility and senior notes:. • require us to meet certain leverage and interest coverage ratios;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our existing debt, thereby reducing the cash available to finance our operations and other business activities and could limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the industries in which we operate;. • increase our vulnerability to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business;. • limit our ability to access the bank and capital markets to raise capital on favorable terms or to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions or to refinance existing indebtedness;. • place restrictions on our ability to obtain additional financing, make investments, lease equipment, sell assets and engage in business combinations;. 24. • place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors with lower levels of indebtedness in relation to their overall size or less restrictive terms governing their indebtedness;. • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our debt agreements and increase the risk that we may default on our debt obligations; and. • limit management's discretion in operating our business.. Our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions and governmental regulation. We cannot be certain that our cash flow will be sufficient to allow us to pay the principal and interest on our debt and meet our other obligations, including payment of distributions on the preferred units. If we do not have sufficient funds, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, borrow more money, or sell assets or raise equity at unattractive prices. We are required to make substantial principal repayments each year in connection with Opco's senior notes, with approximately $81 million due thereunder during 2018. To the extent we borrow to make some of these payments, we may not be able to refinance these amounts on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We may not be able to refinance our debt, sell assets, borrow more money or access the bank and capital markets on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our ability to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt agreements will be affected by the levels of cash flow from our operations and future events and circumstances beyond our control. Failure to comply with these covenants would result in an event of default under our indebtedness, and such an event of default could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Ongoing disputes with Foresight Energy could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if the Deer Run mine remains idled for an extended period or does not resume operations, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Foresight Energy is our largest lessee, and in 2017, we derived approximately 19% of our revenues from them. We are currently in disputes with them with respect to two of their four mining operations in which we have an interest. Foresight Energy's Deer Run mine (which we also refer to as our Hillsboro property) has been idled for almost three years. Foresight Energy has declared a force majeure event at the Deer Run mine and failed to make $76.0 million in required minimum deficiency payments to us as of the date hereof. Such amount is expected to increase by $7.5 million for each quarter with respect to which Foresight Energy fails to make the required minimum payment. We have a lawsuit pending against Foresight Energy and Hillsboro Energy to recover the amounts owed to us and compel them to make the required minimum deficiency payments under the lease. We do not currently have an estimate as to when the mine will resume coal production. If the mine remains idled for an extended period, if the mine is permanently closed or if Hillsboro continues to fail to pay its required contractual minimums, our financial condition could be adversely affected.. In addition, we have also filed a lawsuit against Foresight Energy's Macoupin subsidiary, which has failed to comply with the terms of the coal mining, rail loadout and rail loop leases at the Macoupin mine by incorrectly recouping previously paid minimum royalties. The amount owed to us by Macoupin through December 31, 2017 is approximately $9.5 million. See \"Item 3. Legal Proceedings\" included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information on our lawsuits against Foresight Energy. These ongoing disputes and further deterioration of our relationship with our largest lessee could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Prices for both metallurgical and thermal coal are volatile and depend on a number of factors beyond our control.  Declines in prices could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Coal prices remain at relatively low levels and continue to be volatile. Although metallurgical coal prices have improved since 2016 lows, the current pricing environment may not be sustained, and prices could decline substantially. Thermal coal prices remain relatively steady, but production by some of our lessees may not be economic if the prices decline further or remain at current levels. The prices our lessees receive for their coal depend upon factors beyond their or our control, including:. • the supply of and demand for domestic and foreign coal;. • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes;. • changes in fuel consumption patterns of electric power generators;. • the price and availability of alternative fuels, especially natural gas;. 25. • global economic conditions, including the strength of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies and the demand for steel;. • the proximity to and capacity of transportation facilities;. • weather conditions; and. • the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures.. Natural gas is the primary fuel that competes with thermal coal for power generation. Relatively low natural gas prices have resulted in a number of utilities switching from thermal coal to natural gas to the extent that it is practical to do so. This switching has resulted in a decline in thermal coal prices, and to the extent that natural gas prices remain low, thermal coal prices will also remain low. The closure of coal-fired power plants as a result of increased governmental regulations or the inability to comply with such regulations has also resulted in a decrease in the demand for thermal coal.. Our lessees produce a significant amount of the metallurgical coal that is used in both the U.S. and foreign steel industries. Since the amount of steel that is produced is tied to global economic conditions, declines in those conditions could result in the decline of steel, coke and metallurgical coal production. Since metallurgical coal is priced higher than thermal coal, some mines on our properties may only operate profitably if all or a portion of their production is sold as metallurgical coal. If these mines are unable to sell metallurgical coal, they may not be economically viable and may be temporarily idled or closed. Any potential future lessee bankruptcy filings could create additional uncertainty as to the future of operations on our properties and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. To the extent our lessees are unable to economically produce coal over the long term, the carrying value of our reserves could be adversely affected. A long term asset generally is deemed impaired when the future expected cash flow from its use and disposition is less than its book value. Future impairment analyses could result in additional downward adjustments to the carrying value of our assets.. Mining operations are subject to operating risks that could result in lower revenues to us.. Our revenues are largely dependent on the level of production of minerals from our properties, and any interruptions to the production from our properties would reduce our revenues. The level of production is subject to operating conditions or events beyond our or our lessees' control including:. • the inability to acquire necessary permits or mining or surface rights;. • changes or variations in geologic conditions, such as the thickness of the mineral deposits and, in the case of coal, the amount of rock embedded in or overlying the coal deposit;. • mining and processing equipment failures and unexpected maintenance problems;. • the availability of equipment or parts and increased costs related thereto;. • the availability of transportation facilities and interruptions due to transportation delays;. • adverse weather and natural disasters, such as heavy rains and flooding;. • labor-related interruptions; and. • unexpected mine safety accidents, including fires and explosions.. Under the current regulatory environment, there is substantial uncertainty relating to the ability of our coal lessees to be issued permits necessary to conduct mining operations. The non-issuance of permits has limited the ability of our coal lessees to open new operations, expand existing operations, and may preclude new acquisitions in which we might otherwise be involved. We and our lessees may also incur costs and liabilities resulting from claims for damages to property or injury to persons arising from our or their operations. If we or our lessees are pursued for these sanctions, costs and liabilities, mining operations and, as a result, our revenues could be adversely affected.. The Construction Aggregates segment currently operates four hard rock quarries, one underground limestone mine, six sand and gravel plants, two asphalt plants and two marine terminals. As an operator of these assets, we are exposed to risks that we have not historically been exposed to in our mineral rights and royalties business. Such risks include, but are not limited to, prices and demand for construction aggregates, capital and operating expenses necessary to maintain operations, production levels, general. 26. economic conditions, conditions in the local markets that we serve, inclement or hazardous weather conditions and typically lower production levels in the winter months, permitting risk, fire, explosions or other accidents, and unanticipated geologic conditions. Any of these risks could result in damage to, or destruction of, our construction aggregates mining properties or production facilities, personal injury, environmental damage, delays in mining or processing, reduced revenue or losses or possible legal liability. In addition, not all of these risks are reasonably insurable, and our insurance coverage contains limits, deductibles, exclusions and endorsements. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to meet our needs in the event of loss. Any prolonged downtime or shutdowns at our construction aggregates mining properties or production facilities or material loss could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Changes in fuel consumption patterns by electric power generators resulting in a decrease in the use of coal have resulted in and will continue to result in lower coal production by our lessees and reduced coal-related revenues.. The amount of coal consumed for domestic electric power generation is affected primarily by the overall demand for electricity, the price and availability of competing fuels for power plants and environmental and other governmental regulations. We expect that substantially all newly constructed power plants in the United States will be fired by natural gas because of lower construction and compliance costs compared to coal-fired plants and because natural gas is a cleaner burning fuel. The increasingly stringent requirements of rules and regulations promulgated under the federal Clean Air Act have resulted in more electric power generators shifting from coal to natural-gas-fired power plants, or to other alternative energy sources such as solar and wind. In addition, the proposed rules promulgated by the EPA on greenhouse gas emissions from new and existing power plants are expected to further limit the construction of new coal-fired generation plants in favor of alternative sources of energy and negatively affect the viability of coal-fired power generation. These changes have resulted in reduced coal consumption and the production of coal from our properties and are expected to continue to have an adverse effect on our coal-related revenues.. The adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of \"greenhouse gases\" and other hazardous air pollutants have resulted in and will continue to result in reduced demand for our coal, oil and natural gas.. In December 2009, EPA determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, and other GHGs, present an endangerment to public health and welfare because emissions of such gases are, according to EPA, contributing to warming of the Earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on its findings, EPA has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of GHGs under various provisions of the Clean Air Act.. In August 2015, EPA published its final Clean Power Plan Rule, a multi-factor plan designed to cut carbon pollution from existing power plants, including coal-fired power plants. The rule requires improving the heat rate of existing coal-fired power plants and substituting lower carbon-emission sources like natural gas and renewables in place of coal. The rule will force many existing coal-fired power plants to incur substantial costs in order to comply or alternatively result in the closure of some of these plants. This rule is being challenged by industry participants and other parties. In February, 2016, the Supreme Court of the United States stayed the Clean Power Plan Rule pending a decision by the District of Columbia Circuit as well as any subsequent review by the Supreme Court.. In October 2015, EPA published its final rule on performance standards for greenhouse gas emissions from new, modified, and reconstructed electric generating units. The final rule requires new steam generating units to use highly efficient supercritical pulverized coal boilers that use partial post-combustion carbon capture and storage technology. The final emission standard is less stringent than EPA had originally proposed due to updated cost assumptions, but could still have a material adverse effect on new coal-fired power plants. The final rule has been challenged by several states, industry participants and other parties in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, but is not subject to a stay. Oral arguments are currently scheduled for April 2017.. In addition to EPA's GHG initiatives, there are several other federal rulemakings that are focused on emissions from coal-fired electric generating facilities, including the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR), regulating emissions of nitrogen oxide and sulfur dioxide, and the Mercury and Air Toxics Rule (MATS), regulating emissions of hazardous air pollutants. Installation of additional emissions control technologies and other measures required under these and other EPA regulations have made it more costly to operate many coal-fired power plants and have resulted in and are expected to continue to result in plant closures. Further reductions in coal's share of power generating capacity as a result of compliance with existing or proposed rules and regulations would have a material adverse effect on our coal-related revenues.. 27. In addition to climate change and other Clean Air Act legislation, our businesses are subject to numerous other federal, state and local laws and regulations that may limit production from our properties and our profitability.. The operations of our lessees, our Construction Aggregates business and Ciner Wyoming are subject to stringent health and safety standards under increasingly strict federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws, including mine safety regulations and governmental enforcement policies. The oil and gas industry is also subject to numerous laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, the issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations, the suspension or revocation of permits and other enforcement measures that could have the effect of limiting production from our properties.. New environmental legislation, new regulations and new interpretations of existing environmental laws, including regulations governing permitting requirements, could further regulate or tax the mining and oil and gas industries and may also require significant changes to operations, the incurrence of increased costs or the requirement to obtain new or different permits, any of which could decrease our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Under SMCRA, our coal lessees have substantial reclamation obligations on properties where mining operations have been completed and are required to post performance bonds for their reclamation obligations.  To the extent an operator is unable to satisfy its reclamation obligations or the performance bonds posted are not sufficient to cover those obligations, regulatory authorities or citizens groups could attempt to shift reclamation liability onto the ultimate landowner, which if successful, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. In addition to governmental regulation, private citizens' groups have continued to be active in bringing lawsuits against coal mine operators and land owners that allege violations of water quality standards resulting from ongoing discharges of pollutants from reclaimed mining operations, including selenium and conductivity. Any determination that a landowner or lessee has liability for discharges from a previously reclaimed mine site would result in uncertainty as to continuing liability for completed and reclaimed coal mine operations and could result in substantial compliance costs or fines.. Prices for soda ash are volatile. Any substantial or extended decline in soda ash prices could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. The market price of soda ash directly affects the profitability of Ciner Wyoming's soda ash production operations. If the market price for soda ash declines, Ciner Wyoming's sales will decrease. Historically, the global market and, to a lesser extent, the domestic market for soda ash have been volatile, and those markets are likely to remain volatile in the future. The prices Ciner Wyoming receives for its soda ash depend on numerous factors beyond Ciner Wyoming's control, including worldwide and regional economic and political conditions impacting supply and demand. Glass manufacturers and other industrial customers drive most of the demand for soda ash, and these customers experience significant fluctuations in demand and production costs. Competition from increased use of glass substitutes, such as plastic and recycled glass, has had a negative effect on demand for soda ash. Substantial or extended declines in prices for soda ash could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, Ciner Wyoming relies on natural gas as the main energy source in its soda ash production process. Accordingly, high natural gas prices increase Ciner Wyoming's cost of production and affect its competitive cost position when compared to other foreign and domestic soda ash producers.. An adverse outcome in our contingent consideration payment dispute with Anadarko could have an adverse effect on our business and liquidity.. In July 2017, Anadarko Holding Company and its subsidiary, Big Island Trona Company (together, \"Anadarko\") filed a lawsuit against Opco and NRP Trona LLC alleging that a July 2013 simplification of OCI Wyoming's ownership structure triggered an acceleration of an obligation under the purchase agreement with Anadarko to pay additional contingent consideration in full and demanded immediate payment of such amount, together with interest, court costs and attorneys' fees.  While this matter is in the very early stages, we would be required to pay up to $40 million, plus interest, court costs and attorneys' fees if Anadarko prevails and is awarded the full damages it seeks. Any such payment could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. For more information, see \"Item 3. Legal Proceedings - Anadarko Contingent Consideration Payment Dispute.\". 28. The Construction Aggregates segment operates in a highly competitive and fragmented industry, which may negatively impact prices, volumes and costs. In addition, both commercial and residential construction are dependent upon the overall U.S. economy.. The construction aggregates industry is highly fragmented with a large number of independent local producers operating in local markets. Additionally, our construction aggregates business also competes against large private and public companies, some of which are significantly vertically integrated. Therefore, there is intense competition in a number of markets in which the construction aggregates business operates. This significant competition could lead to lower prices and lower sales volumes in some markets, negatively affecting our earnings and cash flows.. In addition, commercial and residential construction levels generally move with economic cycles. When the economy is strong, construction levels rise and when the economy is weak, construction levels fall. The U.S. economy is recovering from the 2008-2009 recession, but the pace of recovery is slow. Since construction activity generally lags the recovery after down cycles, construction projects have not returned to their pre-recession levels.. If our lessees do not manage their operations well, their production volumes and our royalty revenues could decrease.. We depend on our lessees to effectively manage their operations on our properties. Our lessees make their own business decisions with respect to their operations within the constraints of their leases, including decisions relating to:. • the payment of minimum royalties;. • marketing of the minerals mined;. • mine plans, including the amount to be mined and the method of mining;. • processing and blending minerals;. • expansion plans and capital expenditures;. • credit risk of their customers;. • permitting;. • insurance and surety bonding;. • acquisition of surface rights and other mineral estates;. • employee wages;. • transportation arrangements;. • compliance with applicable laws, including environmental laws; and. • mine closure and reclamation.. A failure on the part of one of our lessees to make royalty payments, including minimum royalty payments, could give us the right to terminate the lease, repossess the property and enforce payment obligations under the lease. If we repossessed any of our properties, we would seek a replacement lessee. We might not be able to find a replacement lessee and, if we did, we might not be able to enter into a new lease on favorable terms within a reasonable period of time. In addition, the existing lessee could be subject to bankruptcy proceedings that could further delay the execution of a new lease or the assignment of the existing lease to another operator. If we enter into a new lease, the replacement operator might not achieve the same levels of production or sell minerals at the same price as the lessee it replaced. In addition, it may be difficult for us to secure new or replacement lessees for small or isolated mineral reserves.. 29. We have limited control over the activities on our properties that we do not operate and are exposed to operating risks that we do not experience in the royalty business.. We do not have control over the operations of Ciner Wyoming. We have limited approval rights with respect to Ciner Wyoming, and our partner controls most business decisions, including decisions with respect to distributions and capital expenditures. Adverse developments in Ciner Wyoming's business would result in decreased distributions to NRP. In addition, we are ultimately responsible for operating the transportation infrastructure at Foresight Energy's Williamson mine, and have assumed the capital and operating risks associated with that business. As a result of these investments, we could experience increased costs as well as increased liability exposure associated with operating these facilities.. Fluctuations in transportation costs and the availability or reliability of transportation could reduce the production of coal, soda ash, construction aggregates, and other minerals from our properties.. Transportation costs represent a significant portion of the total delivered cost for the customers of our lessees. Increases in transportation costs could make coal a less competitive source of energy or could make minerals produced by some or all of our lessees less competitive than coal produced from other sources. On the other hand, significant decreases in transportation costs could result in increased competition for our lessees from producers in other parts of the country.. Our lessees depend upon railroads, barges, trucks and beltlines to deliver minerals to their customers. Disruption of those transportation services due to weather-related problems, mechanical difficulties, strikes, lockouts, bottlenecks and other events could temporarily impair the ability of our lessees to supply minerals to their customers. Our lessees' transportation providers may face difficulties in the future that may impair the ability of our lessees to supply minerals to their customers, resulting in decreased royalty revenues to us.. In addition, Ciner Wyoming transports its soda ash by rail or truck and ocean vessel. As a result, its business and financial results are sensitive to increases in rail freight, trucking and ocean vessel rates. Increases in transportation costs, including increases resulting from emission control requirements, port taxes and fluctuations in the price of fuel, could make soda ash a less competitive product for glass manufacturers when compared to glass substitutes or recycled glass, or could make Ciner Wyoming's soda ash less competitive than soda ash produced by competitors that have other means of transportation or are located closer to their customers. Ciner Wyoming may be unable to pass on its freight and other transportation costs in full because market prices for soda ash are generally determined by supply and demand forces. In addition, rail operations are subject to various risks that may result in a delay or lack of service at Ciner Wyoming's facility, and alternative methods of transportation are impracticable or cost-prohibitive. Any substantial interruption in or increased costs related to the transportation of Ciner Wyoming's soda ash or the failure to renew the rail contract on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may be inaccurate, which could materially adversely affect the quantities and value of our reserves.. Coal, aggregates and industrial minerals, reserve engineering requires subjective estimates of underground accumulations of coal, aggregates and industrial minerals, and assumptions and are by nature imprecise. Our reserve estimates may vary substantially from the actual amounts of coal, aggregates and industrial minerals recovered from our reserves. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of reserves, including many factors beyond our control. Estimates of reserves necessarily depend upon a number of variables and assumptions, any one of which may, if incorrect, result in an estimate that varies considerably from actual results. These factors and assumptions relate to:. • future prices, operating costs, capital expenditures, severance and excise taxes, and development and reclamation costs;. • production levels;. • future technology improvements;. • the effects of regulation by governmental agencies; and. • geologic and mining conditions, which may not be fully identified by available exploration data.. Actual production, revenue and expenditures with respect to our reserves will likely vary from estimates, and these variations may be material. As a result, undue reliance should not be placed on our reserve data that is included in this report.. 30. Our lessees could satisfy obligations to their customers with minerals from properties other than ours, depriving us of the ability to receive amounts in excess of minimum royalty payments.. Mineral supply contracts generally do not require operators to satisfy their obligations to their customers with resources mined from specific reserves. Several factors may influence a lessee's decision to supply its customers with minerals mined from properties we do not own or lease, including the royalty rates under the lessee's lease with us, mining conditions, mine operating costs, cost and availability of transportation, and customer specifications. In addition, lessees move on and off of our properties over the course of any given year in accordance with their mine plans. If a lessee satisfies its obligations to its customers with minerals from properties we do not own or lease, production on our properties will decrease, and we will receive lower royalty revenues.. A lessee may incorrectly report royalty revenues, which might not be identified by our lessee audit process or our mine inspection process or, if identified, might be identified in a subsequent period.. We depend on our lessees to correctly report production and royalty revenues on a monthly basis. Our regular lessee audits and mine inspections may not discover any irregularities in these reports or, if we do discover errors, we might not identify them in the reporting period in which they occurred. Any undiscovered reporting errors could result in a loss of royalty revenues and errors identified in subsequent periods could lead to accounting disputes as well as disputes with our lessees.. Risks Related to Our Structure. Unitholders may not be able to remove our general partner even if they wish to do so.. Our general partner manages and operates NRP. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business. Unitholders have no right to elect the general partner or the directors of the general partner on an annual or any other basis.. Furthermore, if unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they currently have little practical ability to remove our general partner or otherwise change its management. Our general partner may not be removed except upon the vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our outstanding common units (including common units held by our general partner and its affiliates and including common units deemed to be held by the holders of the preferred units who vote along with the common unitholders on an as-converted basis). Because of their substantial ownership in us, the removal of our general partner would be difficult without the consent of both our general partner and its affiliates and the holders of the preferred units. In addition, the following provisions of our partnership agreement may discourage a person or group from attempting to remove our general partner or otherwise change our management:. • generally, if a person (other than the holders of preferred units) acquires 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding other than from our general partner or its affiliates, the units owned by such person cannot be voted on any matter; and. • our partnership agreement contains limitations upon the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other limitations upon the unitholders' ability to influence the manner or direction of management.. As a result of these provisions, the price at which the common units will trade may be lower because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price.. The preferred units are senior in right of distributions and liquidation and upon conversion, would result in the issuance of additional common units in the future, which could result in substantial dilution of our common unitholders' ownership interests.. The preferred units rank senior to our common units with respect to distribution rights and rights upon liquidation. We are required to pay quarterly distributions on the preferred units (plus any PIK Units issued in lieu of preferred units) in an amount equal to 12.0% per year prior to paying any distributions on our common units. The preferred units also rank senior to the common units in right of liquidation, and will be entitled to receive a liquidation preference in any such case.. 31. The preferred units may also be converted into common units under certain circumstances. The number of common units issued in any conversion will be based on the then-current trading price of the common units at the time of conversion. Accordingly, the lower the trading price of our common units at the time of conversion, the greater the number of common units that will be issued upon conversion of the preferred units, which would result in greater dilution to our existing common unitholders. Dilution has the following effects on our common unitholders:. • an existing unitholder's proportionate ownership interest in NRP will decrease;. • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; and. • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and the market price of the common units may decline.. In addition, to the extent the preferred units are converted into more than 66 2/3% of our common units, the holders of the preferred will have the right to remove our general partner.. We may issue additional common units or preferred units without common unitholder approval, which would dilute a unitholder's existing ownership interests.. Our general partner may cause us to issue an unlimited number of common units, without common unitholder approval (subject to applicable New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) rules). We may also issue at any time an unlimited number of equity securities ranking junior or senior to the common units (including additional preferred units) without common unitholder approval (subject to applicable NYSE rules). In addition, we may issue additional common units upon the exercise of the outstanding warrants held by Blackstone and Goldentree. The issuance of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects:. • an existing unitholder's proportionate ownership interest in NRP will decrease;. • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; and. • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and the market price of the common units may decline.. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell their units at an undesirable time or price.. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own 80% or more of the common units, the general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the remaining common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price generally equal to the then current market price of the common units. As a result, unitholders may be required to sell their common units at a time when they may not desire to sell them or at a price that is less than the price they would like to receive. They may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their common units.. Cost reimbursements due to our general partner may be substantial and will reduce our cash available for distribution to unitholders.. Prior to making any distribution on the common units, we reimburse our general partner and its affiliates, including officers and directors of the general partner, for all expenses incurred on our behalf. The reimbursement of expenses and the payment of fees could adversely affect our ability to make distributions. The general partner has sole discretion to determine the amount of these expenses. In addition, our general partner and its affiliates may provide us services for which we will be charged reasonable fees as determined by the general partner.. Unitholders may not have limited liability if a court finds that unitholder actions constitute control of our business.. Our general partner generally has unlimited liability for our obligations, such as our debts and environmental liabilities, except for those contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. Under Delaware law, however, a unitholder could be held liable for our obligations to the same extent as a general partner if a court determined that the right of unitholders to remove our general partner or to take other action under our partnership agreement constituted participation in the \"control\" of our business. In addition, Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act provides that under some circumstances, a unitholder may be liable to us for the amount of a distribution for a period of three years from the date of the distribution.. 32. Conflicts of interest could arise among our general partner and us or the unitholders.. These conflicts may include the following:. • Excluding our construction aggregates business, we do not have any employees and we rely solely on employees of affiliates of the general partner;. • under our partnership agreement, we reimburse the general partner for the costs of managing and for operating the partnership;. • the amount of cash expenditures, borrowings and reserves in any quarter may affect cash available to pay quarterly distributions to unitholders;. • the general partner tries to avoid being liable for partnership obligations. The general partner is permitted to protect its assets in this manner by our partnership agreement. Under our partnership agreement the general partner would not breach its fiduciary duty by avoiding liability for partnership obligations even if we can obtain more favorable terms without limiting the general partner's liability;. • under our partnership agreement, the general partner may pay its affiliates for any services rendered on terms fair and reasonable to us. The general partner may also enter into additional contracts with any of its affiliates on behalf of us. Agreements or contracts between us and our general partner (and its affiliates) are not necessarily the result of arm's-length negotiations; and. • the general partner would not breach our partnership agreement by exercising its call rights to purchase limited partnership interests or by assigning its call rights to one of its affiliates or to us.. In addition, as a result of the purchase of the Preferred Units, Blackstone has certain consent rights and board appointment and observation rights. GoldenTree also has more limited consent rights. In the exercise of their applicable consent rights and/or board rights, conflicts of interest could arise between us and our general partner on the one hand, and Blackstone or GoldenTree on the other hand.. The control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. A change of control may result in defaults under certain of our debt instruments and the triggering of payment obligations under compensation arrangements.. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of our unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in our partnership agreement on the ability of the general partner of our general partner from transferring its general partnership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the Board of Directors and officers with its own choices and to control their decisions and actions.. In addition, a change of control would constitute an event of default under our debt agreements. During the continuance of an event of default under our debt agreements, the administrative agent may terminate any outstanding commitments of the lenders to extend credit to us and/or declare all amounts payable by us immediately due and payable. In addition, upon a change of control, the holders of the preferred units would have the right to require us to redeem the preferred units at the liquidation preference or convert all of their preferred units into common units. A change of control also may trigger payment obligations under various compensation arrangements with our officers.. Tax Risks to Our Unitholders. Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or we were to become subject to material additional amounts of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to unitholders would be substantially reduced.. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Despite the fact that we are organized as a limited partnership under Delaware law, we would be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes unless we satisfy a \"qualifying income\" requirement. Based on our current operations, we believe we satisfy the qualifying income requirement. However, we have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other matter affecting us. Failing to meet the qualifying income requirement or a. 33. change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity.. If we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate and would likely be liable for state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our units.. At the state level, several states have been evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of a similar tax on us in a jurisdiction in which we operate or in other jurisdictions to which we may expand could substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes or differing interpretations, possibly applied on a retroactive basis.. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. From time to time, members of Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. Although there is no current legislative proposal, a prior legislative proposal would have eliminated the qualifying income exception to the treatment of all publicly traded partnerships as corporations upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. In addition, on January 24, 2017, final regulations regarding which activities give rise to qualifying income within the meaning of Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Final Regulations\") were published in the Federal Register. The Final Regulations are effective as of January 19, 2017, and apply to taxable years beginning on or after January 19, 2017. We anticipate that we will continue to meet the qualifying income exception for publicly traded partnership under the Final Regulations.. However, any interpretation of or modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible for us to meet the exception for certain publicly traded partnerships to be treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. Any similar or future legislative changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our units.. Certain federal income tax preferences currently available with respect to coal exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation.. Changes to U.S. federal income tax laws have been proposed in a prior session of Congress that would eliminate certain key U.S. federal income tax preferences relating to coal exploration and development. These changes include, but are not limited to (i) repealing capital gains treatment of coal and lignite royalties, (ii) eliminating current deductions and 60-month amortization for exploration and development costs relating to coal and other hard mineral fossil fuels, and (iii) repealing the percentage depletion allowance with respect to coal properties. If enacted, these changes would limit or eliminate certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to coal exploration and development, and any such change could increase the taxable income allocable to our unitholders and negatively impact the value of an investment in our units. We are not aware of any current proposals with regard to these changes.. Our unitholders are required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Our unitholders' share of our portfolio income may be taxable to them even though they receive other losses from our activities.. Because our unitholders are treated as partners to whom we allocate taxable income that could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, our unitholders are required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income even if they receive no cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax due from them with respect to that. 34. income.. For our unitholders subject to the passive loss rules, our current operations include portfolio activities (such as our coal and mineral royalties business) and passive activities (such as our soda ash and aggregates businesses). Any passive losses we generate will only be available to offset our passive income generated in the future and will not be available to offset (i) our portfolio income, including income related to our coal and mineral royalties business, (ii) a unitholder's income from other passive activities or investments, including investments in other publicly traded partnerships, or (iii) a unitholder's salary or active business income. Thus, our unitholders' share of our portfolio income may be subject to federal income tax, regardless of other losses they may receive from us.. We may engage in transactions to reduce our indebtedness and manage our liquidity that generate taxable income (including income and gain from the sale of properties and cancellation of indebtedness income) allocable to our unitholders, and income tax liabilities arising therefrom may exceed any distributions made with respect to their units.. In response to current market conditions, we may engage in transactions to reduce our leverage and manage our liquidity that would result in income and gain to our unitholders without a corresponding cash distribution. For example, we may sell assets and use the proceeds to repay existing debt, in which case, our unitholders could be allocated taxable income and gain resulting from the sale without receiving a cash distribution. Further, we may pursue opportunities to reduce our existing debt, such as debt exchanges, debt repurchases, or modifications of our existing debt that would result in \"cancellation of indebtedness income\" (also referred to as \"COD income\") being allocated to our unitholders as ordinary taxable income. Our unitholders may be allocated income and gain from these transactions, and income tax liabilities arising therefrom may exceed any distributions we make to our unitholders. The ultimate tax effect of any such income allocations will depend on the unitholder's individual tax position, including, for example, the availability of any suspended passive losses that may offset some portion of the allocable income. Our unitholders may, however, be allocated substantial amounts of ordinary income subject to taxation, without any ability to offset such allocated income against any capital losses attributable to the unitholder's ultimate disposition of its units. Our unitholders are encouraged to consult their tax advisors with respect to the consequences to them. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest by the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest by the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution.. If the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, it (and some states) may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustment directly from us, in which case our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced and our current and former unitholders may be required to indemnify us for any taxes (including applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustments that were paid on such unitholders' behalf.. Pursuant to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, if the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns, it (and some states) may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustment directly from us. To the extent possible under the new rules, our general partner may elect to either pay the taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly to the IRS or, if we are eligible, issue a revised information statement to each unitholder with respect to an audited and adjusted return. Although our general partner may elect to have our unitholders take such audit adjustment into account in accordance with their interests in us during the tax year under audit, there can be no assurance that such election will be practical, permissible or effective in all circumstances. As a result, our current unitholders may bear some or all of the tax liability resulting from such audit adjustment, even if such unitholders did not own units in us during the tax year under audit. If, as a result of any such audit adjustment, we are required to make payments of taxes, penalties and interest, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced and our current and former unitholders may be required to indemnify us for any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustments that were paid on such unitholders' behalf. These rules are not applicable for tax years beginning on or prior to December 31, 2017.. 35. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected.. If our unitholders sell their common units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of our common unitholder's allocable share of our net taxable income result in a decrease in their tax basis in unitholder's common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the common units they sell will, in effect, become taxable income to our common unitholders if they sell such common units at a price greater than their tax basis in those common units, even if the price they receive is less than their original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depletion and depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if our unitholders sell their common units, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale.. Our unitholders may be subject to limitation on their ability to deduct interest expense incurred by us.. In general, we are entitled to a deduction for interest paid or accrued on indebtedness properly allocable to our trade or business during our taxable year. However, under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, our deduction for \"business interest\" is limited to the sum of our business interest income and 30% of our \"adjusted taxable income.\" For the purposes of this limitation, our adjusted taxable income is computed without regard to any business interest expense or business interest income, and in the case of taxable years beginning before January 1, 2022, any deduction allowable for depreciation, amortization, or depletion.. Tax-exempt entities face unique tax issues from owning our units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.. Investment in our units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs) raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from U.S. federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Further, under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, a tax-exempt entity with more than one unrelated trade or business (including by attribution from investment in a partnership such as ours that is engaged in one or more unrelated trade or business) is required to compute the unrelated business taxable income of such tax-exempt entity separately with respect to each such trade or business (including for purposes of determining any net operating loss deduction). As a result, for years beginning after December 31, 2017, it may not be possible for tax-exempt entities to utilize losses from an investment in our partnership to offset unrelated business taxable income from another unrelated trade or business and vice versa. Tax-exempt entities should consult a tax advisor before investing in our units.. Non-U.S. Unitholders will be subject to U.S. taxes and withholding with respect to their income and gain from owning our units.. Non-U.S. unitholders are generally taxed and subject to income tax filing requirements by the United States on income effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business (\"effectively connected income\"). Income allocated to our unitholders and any gain from the sale of our units will generally be considered to be \"effectively connected\" with a U.S. trade or business. As a result, distributions to a Non-U.S. unitholder will be subject to withholding at the highest applicable effective tax rate and a Non-U.S. unitholder who sells or otherwise disposes of a unit will also be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the gain realized from the sale or disposition of that unit.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act imposes a withholding obligation of 10% of the amount realized upon a Non-U.S. unitholder's sale or exchange of an interest in a partnership that is engaged in a U.S. trade or business. However, due to challenges of administering a withholding obligation applicable to open market trading and other complications, the IRS has temporarily suspended the application of this withholding rule to open market transfers of interests in publicly traded partnerships pending promulgation of regulations or other guidance that resolves the challenges. It is not clear if or when such regulations or other guidance will be issued. Non-U.S. unitholders should consult a tax advisor before investing in our units.. We will treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units.. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of our common units and for other reasons, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to. 36. those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our common units each month based upon the ownership of our common units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. We generally prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our common units each month based upon the ownership of our common units on the first day of each month (the \"Allocation Date\"), instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. Similarly, we generally allocate certain deductions for depreciation of capital additions, gain or loss realized on a sale or other disposition of our assets and, in the discretion of the general partner, any other extraordinary item of income, gain, loss or deduction based upon ownership on the Allocation Date. Treasury Regulations allow a similar monthly simplifying convention, but such regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. A unitholder whose units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g., a loan to a \"short seller\" to cover a short sale of units) may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.. Because there are no specific rules governing the U.S. federal income tax consequences of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units. In that case, the unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Our unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan of their units are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units.. As a result of investing in our units, our unitholders are subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire property.. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders are likely subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if our unitholders do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders are likely required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We own property and conduct business in a number of states in the United States. Most of these states impose an income tax on individuals, corporations and other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is the unitholder's responsibility to file all U.S. federal, state and local tax returns."
