[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. In addition to other information contained in this report and in the documents incorporated by reference herein, the following factors should be considered carefully in evaluating us and our business. These factors could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or stock price in future periods.  Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price in future periods.. Risks Related to the Market. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by disruptions in the marketplace caused by economic and political conditions.. Economic and political conditions affect our clients' businesses and the markets they serve. A severe and/or prolonged economic downturn or a negative or uncertain political climate could adversely affect our clients' financial condition and the levels and types of business activity engaged in by our clients and the industries we serve. Clients could determine that discretionary projects are no longer viable or that new projects are not advisable. This may reduce demand for our services, depress pricing for our services or render certain of our service offerings obsolete, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in economic and political conditions could drive changes to the regulatory or legislative landscape and consequently render certain of our service offerings obsolete or shift demand to services that we do not offer or for which we do not have competitive advantages, which could negatively affect the amount of new business that we are able to obtain. If we are unable to predict or assess the impact of changing economic and political conditions on our business or if we are unable to effectively plan for and respond to those changes, including realigning our resources and managing our costs, our business could be adversely affected. Additionally, significant economic turmoil or financial market disruptions could adversely impact the availability of financing to our clients and, in turn, could adversely impact our ability to secure new engagements or collect outstanding amounts due from our clients or cause them to terminate their existing contracts with us, each of which could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.. Our business could be adversely impacted by competition.. The market for our services is highly competitive, highly fragmented, and subject to rapid change. The market includes a large number of participants with a variety of skills and industry expertise, including general management and information technology consulting firms, strategy firms, global accounting firms, business process and technology solution providers and other local, regional, national, and international consulting firms. Many of these firms are international in scope and have larger teams of personnel and greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Some firms may have lower overhead and other operating costs and, therefore, may be able to more effectively compete through lower cost service offerings.  If we are unable to compete effectively, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted.. We serve clients in industries undergoing significant change, and a significant change in the legal and regulatory landscape may reduce the demand for our services or render certain of our service offerings obsolete.. Many of our clients operate in highly regulated industries such as healthcare, energy, and financial services. These industries are subject to changing political, legislative, regulatory and other influences.  The laws and regulations in these industries can be complex, and the application of those laws and regulations to our clients and to us is not always clear.  Regulatory and legislative changes in these industries could reduce the demand for our services, decreasing our competitive position, or potentially render certain of our service offerings obsolete, change client buying patterns or decision making or require us to make unplanned modifications to our service offerings, which could require additional time and investment. If we fail to accurately anticipate the application of the laws and regulations affecting our clients and the industries they serve, if anticipated changes in regulation impact client buying patterns, or if such laws and regulations decrease our competitive position or limit the applicability of our service offerings, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted.. 8. If we are unable to successfully recruit, retain and incentivize our senior-level employees, our ability to win new client engagements and compete effectively could be adversely affected.. We rely heavily on a group of senior-level employees and business development professionals. We believe our future success is dependent on our ability to successfully recruit and retain their services. Competition for skilled employees is intense, and retention of our employees, particularly senior revenue-generators, is a key factor affecting our ability to continue to grow organically and achieve our long-term strategic initiatives. The professional services industry has low barriers to entry making it easy for employees to start their own businesses or work independently. In addition, it is relatively easy for employees to change employers. In addition, our senior-level employees and business development professionals may develop strong bonds with the clients they serve. In the event that such professionals leave us, we may lose clients who decide they prefer to continue working with a particular professional.. The costs associated with recruiting, training and retaining employees are significant, and restrictive covenants prevalent in the professional services industry often prevent senior-level employees from generating revenue quickly upon hire.  If we are unable to successfully recruit and retain our senior-level employees, we could lose existing clients, experience an adverse effect on our ability to win new client engagements, or experience difficulty meeting client needs in our current engagements, and our results of operations could be adversely affected.. Although we offer various incentive compensation programs, including share-based compensation designed to retain and incentivize our senior-level employees, there can be no assurance that these programs will be effective.  Further, limitations on the amount of shares available under our equity compensation plans or a sustained decline in our stock price, which would require us to grant more shares in order to deliver the desired level of value, could also affect our ability to offer adequate share-based compensation as incentives to our senior-level employees. If we are unable to successfully incentivize our senior-level employees, those employees could leave us, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Capital and Financing. We cannot be assured that we will have access to sufficient sources of capital to meet our cash needs.. We rely on our current cash and cash equivalents, cash flows from operations and borrowings under our credit agreement to fund our short-term and anticipated long-term operating and investing activities.  Our credit agreement provides a $400 million revolving credit facility.  At our option, subject to the terms and conditions in the credit agreement, we may elect to increase commitments under the credit facility up to an aggregate amount of $500 million.  The credit facility becomes due and payable in full upon maturity in March 2022.  At December 31, 2017, we had $132.9 million in borrowings outstanding under the credit facility and approximately $263.4 million available. There can be no assurance that the credit facility will continue to be sufficient to meet the future needs of our business, particularly if a decline in our financial performance were to occur. In addition, there is no assurance that we will be able to refinance or extend this facility on similar or more favorable economic terms.  If this occurs, and we are unable to otherwise increase our cash flows from operations, raise additional capital or obtain debt financing from other sources, we may be unable to meet our future cash needs, including, for example, funding our acquisitions and other strategic and capital investments. Furthermore, certain financial institutions that are lenders under our credit facility could be adversely impacted by significant economic turmoil or financial market disruptions and therefore could become unable to meet their commitments under our credit facility, which in turn would reduce the amounts available to us under that facility.. If we are unable to collect receivables in a timely manner, our operating cash flows could be adversely affected.. For the majority of our engagements, we do not receive retainers prior to performing services on a client's behalf.  In certain cases, particularly in our Disputes, Forensics and Legal Technology segment, we may be engaged by a client's counsel for privilege or other reasons, which may cause a delay in the remittance of our invoices.  If the average time it takes our clients to pay our invoices increases, or if the financial condition of any of our clients were to deteriorate, impairing their ability to make payments due to us, our operating cash flows would be adversely impacted which may require us to fund a greater portion of our working capital needs with borrowings under our credit facility or other capital sources.. Our failure to comply with the covenants in our credit agreement could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity.. Our credit agreement contains financial covenants requiring that we maintain, among other things, certain levels of fixed charge and debt coverage. Poor financial performance could cause us to be in default of these covenants. While we were in compliance with these covenants at December 31, 2017, there can be no assurance that we will remain in compliance in the future. Our borrowings under the credit facility tend to be higher during the first half of the year to fund annual incentive payments, and as a result, our consolidated leverage ratio is expected to increase from December 31, 2017 levels. If we fail to comply with the covenants in our credit agreement, this could result in our having to seek an amendment or waiver from our lenders to avoid the termination of their commitments and/or the acceleration of the maturity of outstanding amounts under the credit facility. The cost of our obtaining an amendment or waiver could be significant, and further, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain an amendment or. 9. waiver. If our lenders were unwilling to enter into an amendment or provide a waiver, all amounts outstanding under our credit facility would become immediately due and payable.. We have variable rate indebtedness which subjects us to interest rate risk and may cause our annual debt service obligations to increase significantly.. Borrowings under our credit facility are based on short term variable rates of interest which expose us to interest rate risk. While market interest rates have remained low for some time, these rates could increase, adversely impacting our interest expense, cash outflows and results of operations. From time to time, we use derivative instruments for non-trading purposes, primarily consisting of interest rate swap agreements, to manage our interest rate exposure by achieving a desired proportion of fixed rate versus variable rate borrowings. There can be no assurance, however, that our derivative instruments will be successful in reducing the risks inherent in exposure to interest rate fluctuations.. Risks Related to our Business Operations. Our results of operations and consequently our business may suffer if we are not able to maintain current pricing, compensation costs and productivity levels.. Our revenues and profitability are largely based on the pricing of our services, compensation costs and the number of hours our client-service employees work on client engagements. Accordingly, if we are not able to maintain adequate pricing for our services or appropriately manage our compensation costs and productivity levels, our results of operations may suffer.  Pricing, compensation costs and productivity levels are affected by a number of factors, including:. •  Our ability to predict future demand for our services and maintain the appropriate staffing levels;. •  Our ability to transition client-service employees from completed client engagements to new client engagements;. •  Our clients' perceptions of our ability to add value through our services;. •  Our competitors' pricing of services and compensation levels;. •  The market demand for our services and our ability to successfully balance our supply of skills and resources with client demand;. •  The market rate for employee compensation costs;. •  Our ability to manage our human capital resources particularly as we increase the size and diversity of our workforce and expand into new service offerings as part of our growth strategies;. •  The economic, political and regulatory environment;. •  Our ability to accurately estimate and appropriately manage professional hours and other aspects of fixed-fee engagements and discounted fees which may result in the costs of providing such services exceeding the fees collected; and. •  Our failure to meet key performance improvement measures embedded within certain contracts that could trigger penalties.. Some of the work we do involves greater risk than ordinary engagements which could negatively impact our business.. We do work for clients that for financial, legal, reputational or other reasons may present higher than normal risks. While we attempt to identify and mitigate our exposure with respect to higher-risk engagements and higher-risk clients, these efforts may be ineffective and an actual or alleged error or omission on our part or the part of our client or other third parties on one or more of these higher-risk engagements could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. Examples of higher-risk engagements include, but are not limited to:. •  Interim management engagements, including those for hospitals and other healthcare providers;. •  Engagements where we assist clients in complying with healthcare-related regulatory requirements;. •  Engagements where we serve as an independent monitor or as an independent review organization or which otherwise subject us to heightened requirements relating to our independence from our client;. •  Financial advisory engagements;. •  Engagements where we provide transactional or valuation related services;. 10. •  Engagements where we deliver a fairness opinion;. •  Engagements where we deliver project management services for large construction projects;. •  Engagements where we receive or process or host sensitive data, including personal consumer or private health information;. •  Engagements where we deliver a compliance effectiveness opinion;. •  Engagements involving independent consultants' reports issued pursuant to consent or similar orders to which our clients may be subject or in support of financings and business transactions; and. •  Engagements for governmental clients or where our work product will be relied upon by governmental agencies which regulate our clients.. Our international operations create special risks that could negatively impact our business.. We have offices outside the U.S., including countries in Europe, the Middle East and Asia, and conduct business in many other countries. We expect to continue to expand globally and our international revenues may account for an increasing portion of our revenues in the future. Our international operations carry special financial, business, legal and reputational risks, including:. •  Cultural and language differences in conducting business;. •  Employment and labor laws and related factors that could, among other things, result in lower utilization, higher compensation costs and cyclical fluctuations of utilization and revenues and affect our ability to realign resources with demand for our services;. •  Currency fluctuations that could adversely affect our financial position and operating results;. •  Compliance with varying legal and regulatory requirements, and other barriers to conducting business;. •  Impact on consulting spend from international firms and global economies affected by the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union (or \"Brexit\"), European sovereign debt crisis and the political, economic and commercial responses related to such events;. •  Risks associated with engagements performed by employees and independent contractors with governmental officials and agencies, including the risks arising from the anti-bribery and corruption regulations;. •  Greater difficulties in managing and staffing foreign operations, including in higher risk geographies;. •  Greater personal security risks to employees traveling to or located in unstable locations;. •  Difficulties developing talent and leadership capabilities in emerging markets, where depth of skilled employees is often limited and competition for these resources is intense, can be expensive and may be unsuccessful;. •  Successful entry and execution in new markets;. •  Restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; and. •  Potentially adverse tax consequences, such as net operating loss carry forwards that cannot be realized or higher effective tax rates.. If we are not able to successfully mitigate the special risks associated with our international operations, our business prospects and results of operations could be negatively impacted.. If we are unable to effectively execute on long-term growth objectives, our results of operations and our share value could be adversely affected.. Achievement of our long-term growth objectives may require additional investments in technology, people and acquisitions.  These investments may be significantly different in size, nature and complexity in comparison to those we have made in the past, which could inherently create more risk around those investment decisions than would otherwise be the case.  Specifically:. •  Incentive compensation programs designed to motivate growth may result in innovation or investments that drive near-term growth, but that do not achieve longer-term growth and profitability objectives, or may incentivize an increase in risk compared to our current risk tolerance.. •  Investments in acquisitions may result in growth in businesses that may add to near-term revenues and earnings, but may negatively impact shareholder return over the long-term if they do not perform as expected, or may otherwise create higher longer-term risks, including new legal, compliance, profitability or regulatory implications.. 11. •  The businesses and services added through these investments may extend beyond the knowledge, expertise or resources of our current management team, which could result in unintended risks.. If we are unable to successfully maintain a sales pipeline and to attract business from new or existing clients, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Many of our client engagement agreements are short term in nature (less than one year) or can be terminated by our clients with little or no notice and without penalty. For example, in our litigation-related engagements, if the litigation is settled, our services usually are no longer necessary and our engagement is promptly terminated. Some of our services involve multiple engagements or stages. In those engagements, there is a risk that a client may choose not to retain us for the additional stages of an engagement or that a client will cancel or delay additional planned engagements. When contracts are terminated or not renewed, we lose the anticipated revenues and it may take significant time to replace the revenues lost or redeploy resources.  Also, companies in the industries we serve may combine or be acquired by other companies. If a current client merges or consolidates with a company that relies on another provider for the services we offer, we may lose future revenue from that client and the opportunity to gain additional work. For all these reasons, we rely heavily on our senior-level employees' ability to develop new business opportunities for our services.. In the past, we have derived significant revenues from events as inherently unpredictable as the Dodd-Frank Act, healthcare reform, the credit crisis and significant natural disasters including major hurricanes and earthquakes. Those events, in addition to being unpredictable, often have impacts that decline over time as clients adjust to and compensate for the challenges they face. These factors also limit our ability to predict future revenues and human capital resource needs especially for large engagements that may end abruptly due to factors beyond our control which in turn could adversely impact our results of operations.. Unsuccessful client engagements could result in damage to our professional reputation or legal liability which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our professional reputation and that of our client-service employees is critical to our ability to successfully compete for new client engagements and attract and retain employees. In addition, our client engagements subject us to the risk of legal liability. Any public assertion or litigation alleging that our services were deficient or that we breached any of our obligations to a client could expose us to significant legal liabilities, distract our management and damage our reputation. Our professional liability insurance may not cover every type of claim or liability that could potentially arise from our client engagements. In addition, the limits of our insurance coverage may not be enough to cover a particular claim or a group of claims and the costs of defense.  Any factors that damage our professional reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We may not be able to maintain the equity in our brand name.. We believe that the Navigant brand is an important part of our overall effort to attract and retain clients and that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition for our services increases. We may expand our marketing activities to promote and strengthen our brand and may need to increase our marketing budget, hire additional marketing and public relations personnel or expend additional amounts to protect our brand and otherwise to create and maintain client brand loyalty. In addition, our brand and corporate reputation are potentially susceptible to material damage by events such as disputes with clients, cybersecurity breaches, delivery failures, political issues involving our clients and the services we provide to those clients, compliance violations, government investigations or legal proceedings.  Similarly, our reputation could be damaged by actions or statements of current or former clients, directors, employees, competitors, vendors, alliance or joint venture partners, legislators or government regulators, as well as members of the investment community or the media, including social media influencers. There is a risk that negative or inaccurate information about Navigant, even if based on rumor or misunderstanding, could adversely affect our business.  If we fail to effectively promote, protect and maintain the Navigant brand, or incur excessive expenses in doing so, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted. Damage to our reputation could be difficult, expensive and time-consuming to repair, could make potential or existing clients reluctant to select us for new engagements, resulting in a loss of business, and could adversely affect our recruitment and retention efforts. Damage to our reputation could also reduce the value of the Navigant brand name and could reduce investor confidence in us, materially adversely affecting our share price.. We encounter professional conflicts of interest.. If we are unable to accept new client engagements for any reason, including business and legal conflicts, our client-service employees may become underutilized or discontented, which may adversely affect our future results of operations, as well as our ability to retain these consultants. In addition, although we have systems and procedures to identify potential conflicts of interest prior to accepting a new client engagement, there is no guarantee that all potential conflicts of interest will be identified, and undetected conflicts may result in damage to our professional reputation and result in legal liability which may adversely impact our business.. 12. We may be exposed to potential risks if we are unable to achieve and maintain effective internal controls.. If we fail to achieve and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting or fail to implement necessary new or improved controls that provide reasonable assurance of the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of our financial statements for external purposes, we may fail to meet our public reporting requirements on a timely basis, suffer harm to our reputation, may be unable to adequately or accurately report on our business and our results of operations or may be required to restate our financial statements. Even with adequate internal controls, we may not prevent or detect all misstatements or fraud. Also, internal controls that are currently adequate may in the future become inadequate because of changes in conditions or changes in regulatory standards, and the degree of compliance with our policies or procedures may deteriorate.. Acquired businesses may not achieve expected results which could adversely affect our results of operations.. We have grown our business, in part, through the acquisition of complementary businesses. The substantial majority of the purchase price we pay for acquired businesses is related to goodwill and intangible assets. We may not be able to realize the value of those assets or otherwise realize anticipated synergies unless we are able to effectively integrate the businesses we acquire. We face multiple challenges in integrating acquired businesses and their personnel, including differences in corporate cultures and management styles, retention of personnel, conflict issues with clients, and the need to divert managerial resources and focus that would otherwise be dedicated to our current businesses. Additionally, certain senior-level employees, as sellers of the acquired businesses, are bound by non-competition covenants that expire after a specific amount of time from the date of acquisition. When these covenants expire, any loss of these senior-level employees could significantly impact the acquired businesses and their successful integration. Any failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses and retain personnel could cause the acquired businesses to fail to achieve their expected results, which would in turn adversely affect our financial performance and may require a possible impairment of the acquired assets.. We may also be adversely impacted by liabilities we assume from a company we acquire. We may fail to identify or adequately assess the magnitude of certain liabilities, shortcomings or other circumstances prior to acquiring a company, including potential exposure to regulatory sanctions or liabilities resulting from an acquisition target's previous activities. Should these events occur, our expected benefit from such transactions may not be realized.  Additionally, the financing of acquisitions through cash, borrowings or common stock could also impair our liquidity or cause significant dilution of our shareholders.. Goodwill and other intangible assets represent a significant portion of our assets, and an impairment of these assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Because we have acquired a significant number of businesses, goodwill and other intangible assets represent a significant portion of our total assets. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to perform an annual impairment test at the reporting unit level on our goodwill and, on a quarterly basis, we are required to assess the recoverability of both our goodwill and long-lived intangible assets. We consider our operating segments to be our reporting units. We may need to perform an impairment test more frequently if events occur or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, attrition of key personnel, a prolonged decline in our stock price and market capitalization, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale or disposition of a significant portion of one of our businesses, and other factors. If the fair market value of one of our reporting units or other long-lived intangible assets is less than the carrying amount of the related assets, we could be required to record an impairment charge in the future. The valuation of our reporting units requires judgment in estimating future cash flows, discount rates and other factors. In making these judgments, we evaluate the financial health of our reporting units, including such factors as market performance, changes in our client base and projected growth rates. Because these factors are ever changing, due to market and general business conditions, we cannot predict whether, and to what extent, our goodwill and long-lived intangible assets may be impaired in future periods. At December 31, 2017, we had goodwill of $637.3 million and net intangible assets of $21.1 million. The amount of any future impairment could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. See Note 5  -  Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net to the notes to our consolidated financial statements.. Changes in our level of taxes, as well as adverse outcomes in audits, investigations and tax proceedings, or changes in tax laws or in their interpretation or enforcement, could have a material adverse effect on our effective income tax rate, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. We are subject to taxes in numerous jurisdictions. We calculate and provide for taxes in each tax jurisdiction in which we operate. Tax accounting often involves complex matters and requires our judgment to determine our provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities.  We are subject to ongoing audits, investigations and tax proceedings in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities have disagreed with, and may in the future take positions opposing, the judgments we make, including with respect to our intercompany transactions.  We regularly assess the likely outcomes of our audits, investigations and tax proceedings to determine the appropriateness of our tax liabilities.  However, our judgments may not be sustained as a result of these audits, investigations and tax. 13. proceedings, and the amounts ultimately paid could be materially different from the amounts recorded and reflected in our consolidated financial statements.. Our effective income tax rate could be adversely affected in the future by the expiration of current tax benefits, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, challenges to our intercompany transactions, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in tax laws, regulations and policies, or in their interpretation or enforcement.  Additionally, the process of evaluation of and compliance with changes in tax laws and policies may be onerous and expensive. A number of jurisdictions where we do business, including the United States, are considering, or undergoing changes in their relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations, policies and interpretations.  Changes in tax laws, treaties or regulations, and their interpretation or enforcement, have become more unpredictable, particularly as taxing jurisdictions face an increasing number of political, budgetary and other fiscal challenges.  Tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we operate may change as a result of macroeconomic and other factors outside of our control, making it increasingly difficult for multinational corporations like ourselves to operate with certainty about taxation in many jurisdictions.  As a result, we could be materially adversely affected by future changes in tax law or policy (or in their interpretation or enforcement) in the jurisdictions where we operate, including the U.S., which could have a material adverse effect on our effective income tax rate, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate in the future as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"Tax Reform\"), which was enacted on December 22, 2017. Tax Reform introduces significant changes to U.S. income tax law that will have a meaningful impact on our provision for income taxes. Accounting for the income tax effects of Tax Reform requires significant judgments and estimates in the interpretation and calculations of the provisions of Tax Reform. We continue to examine the impact Tax Reform may have on our business.  Notwithstanding the overall reduction in federal corporate income tax rate as a result of Tax Reform, the overall impact of this new legislation is uncertain and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of Tax Reform, we made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017. The U.S. Treasury Department, the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\"), and other standard-setting bodies may issue guidance on how the provisions of Tax Reform will be applied or otherwise administered that is different from our interpretation. As we collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret Tax Reform and any additional guidance issued by the IRS or other standard-setting bodies, we may make adjustments to the provisional amounts that could materially affect our financial position and results of operations as well as our effective tax rate in the period in which the adjustments are made.. Future changes in tax laws, treaties or regulations, and their interpretation or enforcement, may be unpredictable, particularly as taxing jurisdictions face an increasing number of political, budgetary and other fiscal challenges.  Tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we operate may change as a result of macroeconomic and other factors outside of our control, making it increasingly difficult for multinational corporations like ourselves to operate with certainty about taxation in many jurisdictions.  As a result, we could be materially adversely affected by future changes in tax law or policy (or in their interpretation or enforcement) in the jurisdictions where we operate, including the United States, which could have a material adverse effect on our effective income tax rate, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. We are subject to unpredictable risks of litigation.. Although we seek to avoid litigation whenever possible, from time to time we are party to various lawsuits and claims. Disputes may arise, for example, from client engagements, employment issues, regulatory actions, business acquisitions and real estate and other commercial transactions. There can be no assurances that any lawsuits or claims will be immaterial in the future.  Any material lawsuits or claims could adversely affect our business and reputation. Additionally, regardless of the merits of claims, the cost to defend current and future litigation may be significant and may be time-consuming and divert management's attention and resources.. Our work with governmental clients has inherent risks related to the governmental contracting process.. We work for various U.S., state, local and foreign governmental entities and agencies. These engagements have special risks and characteristics that include, but are not limited to, the following:. •  Governmental agencies generally reserve the right to audit our contract costs, including allocated indirect costs, and conduct inquiries and investigations of our business practices with respect to governmental contracts. If the governmental entity finds that the costs are not reimbursable, then we will not be allowed to bill for them or the cost must be refunded to the governmental entity if it has already been paid to us. Findings from an audit also may result in our being required to prospectively adjust previously agreed rates for work which would affect our future profit margins.. •  If a governmental client discovers improper or illegal activities in the course of its audits or investigations, we may become subject to various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from doing business with other agencies of that government.. •  The terms and conditions of government contracts tend to be more onerous and are often more difficult to negotiate than other types of contracts with our clients.. 14. •  Governmental contracts, and the proceedings surrounding them, are often subject to political sensitivities and more extensive scrutiny and publicity than other commercial contracts. Negative publicity related to our governmental contracts, regardless of whether it is accurate, may damage our business by impairing our professional reputation and our ability to compete for new client engagements.. •  Government entities typically fund projects through appropriated monies. Government entities usually reserve the right to change the scope of or terminate projects for lack of approved funding (or at their convenience). Budget deficits or shortfalls, government spending reductions or suspensions or other debt constraints could result in projects we have with government entities being reduced in price or scope or terminated altogether.. •  Government spending may also be subject to political conflict.  For example, the absence of bipartisan agreement on the federal government budget led to temporary suspension of certain federal programs in January 2018.. •  Political and economic factors, such as pending elections, the outcome of recent elections, changes in leadership among key executive or legislative decision makers, revisions of government tax or other policies and reduced tax revenues, may affect our ability to win contract awards with governmental entities as well as the number and terms of contracts we have with government entities.. The impact of any of the occurrences or conditions described above could affect not only our relationship with the particular governmental agency involved, but also other agencies of the same or other governmental entities as well as other non-governmental clients. Depending on the size of the engagement or the magnitude of the potential costs, penalties or negative publicity involved, any of these occurrences or conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.. Our revenues, operating income (loss) and cash flows are likely to fluctuate.. We experience periodic fluctuations in our revenues, operating income (loss) and cash flows and expect that this will continue to occur in the future due to timing and duration of our client engagements, utilization of our consultants, the types of engagements we are working on at different times, the geographic locations of our clients or where the services are rendered, the length of billing and collection cycles, hiring, business and asset acquisitions including the integration of those acquired businesses into our firm, and general economic factors beyond our control. We may also experience future fluctuations in our cash flows because of increases in employee compensation, including changes to our incentive compensation structure and the timing of incentive payments, which we generally pay during the first quarter of each year, or hiring or retention payments or bonuses which are paid throughout the year.. The expansion and growth of our business process management services and the evolution of our service offerings into new areas subject us to different operational risks than our traditional consulting and expert businesses.. As part of our long-term strategy, we plan to continue to expand our services and solutions into new areas. Expanding into new areas and providing services to new types of clients may expose us to additional operational, regulatory or other risks, including overestimating the demand for our services and solutions or underestimating the competition from other market participants.  Additionally, we may fail to properly anticipate the cost of entry or additional expenses related to our new services.  We could also incur liability if we fail to comply with laws or regulations applicable to the new services we provide our clients.  These challenges may prevent the expansion and growth of our business from becoming profitable, which, in turn could affect our reputation, business and results of operations.. Our Technology, Data & Process businesses, in particular, our business process management services, present different operational risks when compared to our traditional consulting and expert businesses. For example, our business process management services involve managing the revenue cycle function for all or certain portions of our physician and hospital clients' businesses, including the operation, management or oversight of billing, coding and accounts receivable departments that are critical to our clients' financial performance.  In addition, certain of our businesses, most significantly our business process management services business, utilize offshore personnel, including personnel in India, which exposes us to additional operational risks, including special risks associated with conducting business internationally.  Disruptions in service delivery, regulatory compliance concerns, data privacy and security concerns, particularly in the billing and coding areas, labor disputes, technology issues or other performance problems could damage our clients' businesses, expose us to enhanced regulatory scrutiny and claims, and harm our reputation and our business.. If our pricing estimates do not accurately anticipate the cost, risk and complexity of performing our work, our contracts could have delivery inefficiencies or be unprofitable.. Our pricing for our fixed fee engagements, particularly in connection with our business process management services engagements that have multi-year pricing agreements, is highly dependent on our forecasts and predictions about the level of effort and cost necessary to deliver the applicable services and solutions.  Our estimates are based on available data at the time the fees are set, and could turn out to be materially inaccurate. If we do not accurately estimate the effort, costs or timing for meeting our contractual commitments and/or completing projects to a client's satisfaction, our contracts could yield lower margins than planned, or. 15. be unprofitable. In addition, we may fail to accurately assess the risks associated with potential contracts. This could result in existing contracts and contracts entered into in the future being less profitable than expected or unprofitable, which could have an adverse effect on our overall profitability.. We could be adversely impacted by changes in accounting standards as well as estimates and assumptions by management related to significant accounting matters.. Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters are highly complex and require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and the related notes.  Examples include:  determination of the allowance for doubtful accounts, accruals for incentive-based compensation, the fair value of acquisition-related contingent consideration, revenue recognition, the measurement of deferred tax assets, estimation of future performance for recording expenses associated with performance-based equity incentive awards, and the assessment of recoverability of intangible assets and goodwill.  Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in the underlying estimates and assumptions made by management could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition.  For example, changes in accounting standards and the application of existing accounting standards particularly related to the measurement of fair value as compared to carrying value for our reporting units could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Factors that could lead to impairment of goodwill and intangible assets include significant adverse changes in the business climate and declines in the financial condition of a reporting unit.  In addition, new accounting guidance also may require systems and other changes that could increase our general and administrative expenses and/or adversely impact our financial statements.  For example, implementing current or future accounting guidance related to revenue recognition, leases and other areas impacted by the current convergence project between the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the International Accounting Standards Board could require us to make significant changes to our accounting and financial reporting systems and could result in adverse changes to our financial statements.. Risks Related to Technology. We have invested in specialized technology and other intellectual property for which we may fail to fully recover our investment or which maybe inadequate to serve the needs of our business or become obsolete.. We have invested in developing specialized technology and intellectual property, including proprietary systems, processes and methodologies, that we believe provide us a competitive advantage in serving our current clients and winning new client engagements. Many of our service offerings rely on specialized technology or intellectual property that is subject to rapid change, and to the extent that this technology and intellectual property is rendered obsolete and of no further use to us or our clients, our ability to continue offering these services, and grow our revenues, could be adversely affected. There is no assurance that we will be able to develop competitive, innovative or improved technology or technology and intellectual property or that our technology and intellectual property will effectively compete with the intellectual property developed by our competitors. If we are unable to develop new technology and intellectual property or if our competitors develop better technology or intellectual property, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected.  Moreover, if we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights from unauthorized use or infringement by third parties, our business could be adversely affected.. In addition, the scale and complexity of our business and new service offerings may require additional information systems that we may not be able to implement in a timely or cost effective manner. This may impair our ability to achieve our operating objectives and retain our competitive position, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations.. Information system failures or service interruptions could affect our ability to provide services to our clients.. We may be subject to disruption to our operating systems, technology or ability to communicate with our workforce and clients as a result of events that are beyond our control, including but not limited to the possibility of failures at third-party data centers, worker strikes, disruptions to the internet, political instability, natural disasters, malicious attacks, or other conditions.  While we have taken steps to prevent such events and have developed disaster recovery processes, there can be no assurance that these steps will be effective in every situation. Such disruptions could adversely affect our ability to fulfill client engagements and as a result may damage our reputation and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. If the integrity of our information systems is compromised by a cyber security event, our reputation, business and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We depend on information systems to manage and run our business. Additionally, certain services we provide require us to store, transmit or process sensitive or confidential client information, including personal consumer information and health or other personally identifiable information. If any person, including any of our employees or third-party vendors with whom we contract for data hosting services, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches the information security controls we have implemented to. 16. protect confidential information, our clients' data, or if our own data or those security controls prove to be ineffective against intrusion, we could incur legal liability and may also be subject to regulatory enforcement actions, fines and/or criminal prosecution in multiple jurisdictions. Our potential liability in the event of a security breach of client data or our own data could be significant and depending on the circumstances giving rise to the breach, this liability may not be subject to a contractual limit of liability or an exclusion of consequential or indirect damages. Any unauthorized disclosure of sensitive, personal or confidential client information, whether through systems failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. Similarly, unauthorized access to or through our information systems, including an intentional attack by any person who may develop and deploy viruses, worms or other malicious software programs, could result in negative publicity, legal liability, significant remediation costs and damage to our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The nature of these threats and the methods used by persons seeking to disrupt or access our information systems are rapidly evolving, which makes it increasingly difficult to anticipate, prevent or mitigate these risks.  The costs and operational focus required for implementing additional protective measures may also be significant and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We may experience difficulties in implementing new business and financial systems.. We recently transitioned certain of our business and financial systems to new platforms. The integration of new modules within our enterprise resource systems could disrupt our ability to timely and accurately process and report key aspects of our revenue cycle, including billing and accounts receivable.  Any such disruption could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition and cause harm to our reputation."
