[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock is highly speculative, involves a high degree of risk, and should be made only by investors who can afford a complete loss. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with the other information in this Form 10-K, including our financial statements and the related notes, before you decide to buy our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected, the trading of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment therein.. 15. If Cardinal Health 414, SpePharm AG or Sayre Therapeutics do not achieve commercial success with Tc99m tilmanocept, we may be unable to generate significant revenue or become profitable.. In March 2017, Navidea completed the Asset Sale to Cardinal Health 414, as discussed previously under “Development of the Business.” Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, we sold all of our assets used, held for use, or intended to be used in operating the Business, including Lymphoseek, in Canada, Mexico and the United States. Upon closing of the Asset Sale, the Supply and Distribution Agreement between Cardinal Health 414 and the Company was terminated. Under the terms of the Purchase Agreement, Navidea is entitled to receive periodic earnout payments (to consist of contingent payments and milestone payments which, if paid, will be treated as additional purchase price) from Cardinal Health 414 based on net sales derived from Lymphoseek, subject, in each case, to Cardinal Health 414’s right to off-set.. We announced an exclusive EU distribution partnership for Tc99m tilmanocept with SpePharm AG, a subsidiary of Norgine B.V., in March 2015, and SpePharm commenced marketing of Tc99m tilmanocept in the EU during the third quarter of 2017. Navidea is entitled to receive royalty and milestone payments from SpePharm based on net sales derived from Tc99m tilmanocept.. In June 2017, Navidea entered into an exclusive license and distribution agreement with Sayre for the development and commercialization of Tc99m tilmanocept in India. Under the terms of the agreement, Navidea is eligible to receive milestone payments and royalties associated with the sale of Tc99m tilmanocept in India. Tc99m tilmanocept has not yet received marketing approval in India.. Cardinal Health 414, SpePharm or Sayre may never achieve commercial success in North America, the EU, India, or any other global market, they may never realize sales at levels necessary for us to achieve sales-based earnout, royalty or milestone payments, and such payments may never lead to us becoming profitable.. If we do not successfully develop any additional product candidates into marketable products, we may be unable to generate significant revenue or become profitable.. Additional diagnostic and therapeutic applications of the Manocept platform, including diagnosis of other solid tumor cancers, rheumatoid arthritis and cardiovascular disease, among others, are in various stages of pre-clinical and clinical development. Regulatory approval of additional Manocept-based product candidates may not be successful, or if successful, may not result in increased sales. Additional clinical testing for products based on our Manocept platform or other product candidates may not be successful and, even if they are, we may not be successful in developing any of them into a commercial product which will provide sufficient revenue to make us profitable.. We continue to seek to partner or sub-license NAV4694. In October 2017, the Company executed a letter of intent with Sinotau and Cerveau, outlining a plan to sublicense to Cerveau the worldwide rights to conduct research using NAV4694, as well as grant to Cerveau an exclusive license for the development, marketing and commercialization of NAV4694 in Australia, Canada, China and Singapore. The letter of intent includes a provision stating that Sinotau will release all claims in the Sinotau Litigation upon the parties’ execution of a definitive agreement; the commercial rights agreement contemplated by the letter of intent would also include a release of such claims and a covenant not to sue on such claims. See Item 3 – Legal Proceedings. Pending resolution of the Sinotau litigation, we continue to incur costs to maintain our ability to support future clinical evaluation of this product candidate to preserve it for eventual sub-licensing.. Many companies in the pharmaceutical industry suffer significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials even after reporting promising results in earlier trials. Even if our Manocept trials are viewed as successful, we may not get regulatory approval for marketing of any Manocept product candidate. Our Manocept product candidates will be successful only if:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthey are developed to a stage that will enable us to commercialize them or sell related marketing rights to pharmaceutical companies;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe are able to commercialize them in clinical development or sell the marketing rights to third parties; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tupon being developed, they are approved by the regulatory authorities.. We are dependent on the achievement of a number of these goals in order to generate future revenues. The failure to generate revenues from our Manocept-based product candidates may preclude us from continuing our research and development of these and other product candidates.. 16. We may never obtain regulatory approval to manufacture or market our unapproved drug candidates and our approval to market our products or anticipated commercial launch may be delayed as a result of the regulatory review process.. Obtaining regulatory approval to market drugs to diagnose or treat diseases is expensive, difficult and risky. Preclinical and clinical data, as well as information related to the chemistry, manufacturing and control (“CMC”) processes of drug production, can be interpreted in different ways that could delay, limit or preclude regulatory approval. Negative or inconclusive results, adverse medical events during a clinical trial, or issues related to CMC processes could also delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Even if we receive regulatory clearance to market a particular product candidate, the approval could be conditioned on us conducting additional costly post-approval studies or could limit the indicated uses included in our labeling.. We may not be successful in securing and/or maintaining the necessary manufacturing, supply and/or radiolabeling capabilities for our product candidates in clinical development.. We may not be able to secure and/or maintain agreements or other purchasing arrangements with our subcontractors on terms acceptable to us, or that our subcontractors will be able to meet our production requirements on a timely basis, at the required levels of performance and quality, including compliance with FDA cGMP requirements. In the event that any of our subcontractors are unable or unwilling to meet our production requirements, we may not be able to establish an alternate source of supply without significant interruption in product supply or without significant adverse impact to product availability or cost. Any significant supply interruption or yield problems that we or our subcontractors experience would have a material adverse effect on our ability to manufacture our products and, therefore, a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations until a new source of supply is qualified.. Clinical trials for our product candidates will be lengthy and expensive, and their outcome is uncertain.. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the commercial sale of any product candidates, we must demonstrate through preclinical testing and clinical trials that our product candidates are safe and effective for use in humans. Conducting clinical trials is a time consuming, expensive and uncertain process and may take years to complete.. We expect to sponsor efforts to explore the Manocept platform, whether in potential diagnostic or therapeutic uses. We continually assess our clinical trial plans and may, from time to time, initiate additional clinical trials to support our overall strategic development objectives. Historically, the results from preclinical testing and early clinical trials often do not predict the results obtained in later clinical trials. Frequently, drugs that have shown promising results in preclinical or early clinical trials subsequently fail to establish sufficient safety and efficacy data necessary to obtain regulatory approval. At any time during the clinical trials, we, the participating institutions, the FDA, the EMA or other regulatory authorities might delay or halt any clinical trials for our product candidates for various reasons, including:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tineffectiveness of the product candidate;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdiscovery of unacceptable toxicities or side effects;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdevelopment of disease resistance or other physiological factors;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdelays in patient enrollment; or. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tother reasons that are internal to the businesses of our potential collaborative partners, which reasons they may not share with us.. While we have achieved some level of success in our clinical trials for Tc99m tilmanocept as indicated by the FDA and EMA approvals, the results of pending and future trials for other product candidates that we may develop or acquire, are subject to review and interpretation by various regulatory bodies during the regulatory review process and may ultimately fail to demonstrate the safety or effectiveness of our product candidates to the extent necessary to obtain regulatory approval, or that commercialization of our product candidates is worthwhile. Any failure or substantial delay in successfully completing clinical trials and obtaining regulatory approval for our product candidates could materially harm our business.. We extensively outsource our clinical trial activities and usually perform only a small portion of the start-up activities in-house. We rely on independent third-party contract research organizations (“CROs”) to perform most of our clinical studies, including document preparation, site identification, screening and preparation, pre-study visits, training, post-study audits and statistical analysis. Many important aspects of the services performed for us by the CROs are out of our direct control. If there is any dispute or disruption in our relationship with our CROs, our clinical trials may be delayed. Moreover, in our regulatory submissions, we rely on the quality and validity of the clinical work performed by third-party CROs. If any of our CROs’ processes, methodologies or results were determined to be invalid or inadequate, our own clinical data and results and related regulatory approvals could be adversely impacted.. 17. Even if our drug candidates are successful in clinical trials, we may not be able to successfully commercialize them.. We have dedicated and will continue to dedicate substantially all of our resources to the research and development (“R&D”) of our Manocept technology and related compounds. There are many difficulties and uncertainties inherent in pharmaceutical R&D and the introduction of new products. A high rate of failure is inherent in new drug discovery and development. The process to bring a drug from the discovery phase to regulatory approval can take 12 to 15 years or longer and cost more than $1 billion. Failure can occur at any point in the process, including late in the process after substantial investment. As a result, most research programs will not generate financial returns. New product candidates that appear promising in development may fail to reach the market or may have only limited commercial success. Delays and uncertainties in the regulatory approval processes in the United States and in other countries can result in delays in product launches and lost market opportunities. Consequently, it is very difficult to predict which products will ultimately be approved. Due to the risks and uncertainties involved in the R&D process, we cannot reliably estimate the nature, timing, completion dates, and costs of the efforts necessary to complete the development of our R&D projects, nor can we reliably estimate the future potential revenue that will be generated from a successful R&D project.. Prior to commercialization, each product candidate requires significant research, development and preclinical testing and extensive clinical investigation before submission of any regulatory application for marketing approval. The development of radiopharmaceutical technologies and compounds, including those we are currently developing, is unpredictable and subject to numerous risks. Potential products that appear to be promising at early stages of development may not reach the market for a number of reasons including that they may:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tbe found ineffective or cause harmful side effects during preclinical testing or clinical trials;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfail to receive necessary regulatory approvals;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tbe difficult to manufacture on a scale necessary for commercialization;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tbe uneconomical to produce;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfail to achieve market acceptance; or. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tbe precluded from commercialization by proprietary rights of third parties.. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect the commercialization of our product candidates. Products, if introduced, may not be successfully marketed and/or may not achieve customer acceptance. If we fail to commercialize products or if our future products do not achieve significant market acceptance, we will not likely generate significant revenues or become profitable.. If we fail to establish and maintain collaborations or if our partners do not perform, we may be unable to develop and commercialize our product candidates.. We have entered into collaborative arrangements with third parties to develop and/or commercialize product candidates and are currently seeking additional collaborations. Such collaborations might be necessary in order for us to fund our research and development activities and third-party manufacturing arrangements, seek and obtain regulatory approvals and successfully commercialize our existing and future product candidates. If we fail to enter into collaborative arrangements or fail to maintain our existing collaborative arrangements, the number of product candidates from which we could receive future revenues would decline.. Our dependence on collaborative arrangements with third parties will subject us to a number of risks that could harm our ability to develop and commercialize products including that:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcollaborative arrangements may not be on terms favorable to us;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdisagreements with partners or regulatory compliance issues may result in delays in the development and marketing of products, termination of our collaboration agreements or time consuming and expensive legal action;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe cannot control the amount and timing of resources partners devote to product candidates or their prioritization of product candidates and partners may not allocate sufficient funds or resources to the development, promotion or marketing of our products, or may not perform their obligations as expected;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpartners may choose to develop, independently or with other companies, alternative products or treatments. including products or treatments which compete with ours;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tagreements with partners may expire or be terminated without renewal, or partners may breach collaboration agreements with us;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tbusiness combinations or significant changes in a partner’s business strategy might adversely affect that partner's willingness or ability to complete its obligations to us; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe terms and conditions of the relevant agreements may no longer be suitable.. 18. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect the development or commercialization of our products.. Our pharmaceutical products will remain subject to ongoing regulatory review following the receipt of marketing approval. If we fail to comply with continuing regulations, we could lose these approvals and the sale of our products could be suspended.. Approved products may later cause adverse effects that limit or prevent their widespread use, force us to withdraw it from the market or impede or delay our ability to obtain regulatory approvals in additional countries. In addition, any contract manufacturer we use in the process of producing a product and its facilities will continue to be subject to FDA review and periodic inspections to ensure adherence to applicable regulations. After receiving marketing clearance, the manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and record-keeping related to the product will remain subject to extensive regulatory requirements. We may be slow to adapt, or we may never adapt, to changes in existing regulatory requirements or adoption of new regulatory requirements.. If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA and other applicable U.S. and foreign regulatory authorities or previously unknown problems with our products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes are discovered, we could be subject to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trestrictions on the products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twarning letters;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcivil or criminal penalties;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfines;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinjunctions;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tproduct seizures or detentions;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\timport bans;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tvoluntary or mandatory product recalls and publicity requirements;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsuspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ttotal or partial suspension of production; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trefusal to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new drugs or supplements to approved applications.. If users of our products are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payers, or if new restrictive legislation is adopted, market acceptance of our products may be limited and we may not achieve anticipated revenues.. Our ability to commercialize our products will depend in part on the extent to which appropriate reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatment are obtained by governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations such as health maintenance organizations (“HMOs”). Generally, in Europe and other countries outside the United States, the government-sponsored healthcare system is the primary payer of patients’ healthcare costs. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical care. Also, the trend toward managed health care in the United States and the concurrent growth of organizations such as HMOs which could control or significantly influence the purchase of health care services and products, as well as legislative proposals to further reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may all result in lower prices for our products if approved for commercialization. The cost containment measures that health care payers and providers are instituting and the effect of any health care reform could materially harm our ability to sell our products at a profit.. We may be unable to establish or contract for the pharmaceutical manufacturing capabilities necessary to develop and commercialize our potential products.. We are in the process of establishing third-party clinical manufacturing capabilities for our compounds under development. We intend to rely on third-party contract manufacturers to produce sufficiently large quantities of drug materials that are and will be needed for clinical trials and commercialization of our potential products. Third-party manufacturers may not be able to meet our needs with respect to timing, quantity or quality of materials. If we are unable to contract for a sufficient supply of needed materials on acceptable terms, or if we should encounter delays or difficulties in our relationships with manufacturers, clinical trials for our product candidates may be delayed, thereby delaying the submission of product candidates for regulatory approval and the market introduction and subsequent commercialization of our potential products, and for approved products, any such delays, interruptions or other difficulties may render us unable to supply sufficient quantities to meet demand. Any such delays or interruptions may lower our revenues and potential profitability.. 19. We and any third-party manufacturers that we may use must continually adhere to cGMPs and regulations enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program and/or foreign regulatory authorities where our products will be tested and/or marketed. If our facilities or the facilities of third-party manufacturers cannot pass a pre-approval plant inspection, the FDA and/or foreign regulatory authorities will not grant approval to market our product candidates. In complying with these regulations and foreign regulatory requirements, we and any of our third-party manufacturers will be obligated to expend time, money and effort on production, record-keeping and quality control to assure that our potential products meet applicable specifications and other requirements. The FDA and other regulatory authorities may take action against a contract manufacturer who violates cGMPs.. Our product supply and related patient access could be negatively impacted by, among other things: (i) product seizures or recalls or forced closings of manufacturing plants; (ii) disruption in supply chain continuity including from natural or man-made disasters at a critical supplier, as well as our failure or the failure of any of our suppliers to comply with cGMPs and other applicable regulations or quality assurance guidelines that could lead to manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages or delays in product manufacturing; (iii) manufacturing, quality assurance/quality control, supply problems or governmental approval delays; (iv) the failure of a sole source or single source supplier to provide us with the necessary raw materials, supplies or finished goods within a reasonable timeframe; (v) the failure of a third-party manufacturer to supply us with bulk active or finished product on time; and (vi) other manufacturing or distribution issues, including limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, and changes in the types of products produced, physical limitations or other business interruptions.. We may lose out to larger or better-established competitors.. The biotech and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing and distribution resources as well as greater experience in the industry than we have. The particular medical conditions our product lines address can also be addressed by other medical procedures or drugs. Many of these alternatives are widely accepted by physicians and have a long history of use.. To remain competitive, we must continue to launch new products and technologies. To accomplish this, we commit substantial efforts, funds, and other resources to research and development. A high rate of failure is inherent in the research and development of new products and technologies. We must make ongoing substantial expenditures without any assurance that our efforts will be commercially successful. Failure can occur at any point in the process, including after significant funds have been invested. Promising new product candidates may fail to reach the market or may only have limited commercial success because of efficacy or safety concerns, failure to achieve positive clinical outcomes, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, limited scope of approved uses, excessive costs to manufacture, the failure to establish or maintain intellectual property rights, or infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. Even if we successfully develop new products or enhancements or new generations of our existing products, they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences, changing industry standards, or competitors' innovations. Innovations may not be accepted quickly in the marketplace because of, among other things, entrenched patterns of clinical practice or uncertainty over third-party reimbursement. We cannot state with certainty when or whether any of our products under development will be launched, whether we will be able to develop, license, or otherwise acquire compounds or products, or whether any products will be commercially successful. Failure to launch successful new products or new indications for existing products may cause our products to become obsolete, causing our revenues and operating results to suffer.. Physicians may use our competitors’ products and/or our products may not be competitive with other technologies. Tc99m tilmanocept is expected to continue to compete against sulfur colloid in the United States and other colloidal agents in the EU and other global markets. If our competitors are successful in establishing and maintaining market share for their products, our future earnout and royalty receipts may not occur at the rate we anticipate. In addition, our potential competitors may establish cooperative relationships with larger companies to gain access to greater research and development or marketing resources. Competition may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share.. Several pharmaceutical companies currently have product candidates in development that they expect to have a significant impact on the diagnosis and treatment of AD in coming years. The prospects for these product candidates could have a significant impact, either positive or negative, on our ability to sub-license our NAV4694 product candidate.. We may be exposed to business risk, including product liability claims for any product candidates and products that we are able to commercialize.. The testing, manufacturing, marketing and use of any commercial products that we develop, as well as product candidates in development, involve substantial risk of product liability claims. These claims may be made directly by consumers, healthcare providers, pharmaceutical companies or others. In recent years, coverage and availability of cost-effective product liability insurance has decreased, so we may be unable to maintain sufficient coverage for product liabilities that may arise. In addition, the cost to defend lawsuits or pay damages for product liability claims may exceed our coverage. If we are unable to maintain adequate coverage or if claims exceed our coverage, our financial condition and our ability to clinically test our product candidates and market our products will be adversely impacted. In addition, negative publicity associated with any claims, regardless of their merit, may decrease the future demand for our products and impair our financial condition.. 20. The administration of drugs in humans, whether in clinical studies or commercially, carries the inherent risk of product liability claims whether or not the drugs are actually the cause of an injury. Our products or product candidates may cause, or may appear to have caused, injury or dangerous drug interactions, and we may not learn about or understand those effects until the product or product candidate has been administered to patients for a prolonged period of time. We may be subject from time to time to lawsuits based on product liability and related claims, and we cannot predict the eventual outcome of any future litigation. We may not be successful in defending ourselves in the litigation and, as a result, our business could be materially harmed. These lawsuits may result in large judgments or settlements against us, any of which could have a negative effect on our financial condition and business if in excess of our insurance coverage. Additionally, lawsuits can be expensive to defend, whether or not they have merit, and the defense of these actions may divert the attention of our management and other resources that would otherwise be engaged in managing our business.. As a result of a number of factors, product liability insurance has become less available while the cost has increased significantly. We currently carry product liability insurance that our management believes is appropriate given the risks that we face. We will continually assess the cost and availability of insurance; however, there can be no guarantee that insurance coverage will be obtained or, if obtained, will be sufficient to fully cover product liabilities that may arise. If we are held liable for a claim against which we are not insured or for damages exceeding the limits of our insurance coverage, whether arising out of product liability matters, cybersecurity matters, or from some other matter, that claim could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. If any of our license agreements for intellectual property underlying our Manocept platform or any other products or potential products are terminated, we may lose the right to develop or market that product.. We have licensed intellectual property, including patents and patent applications relating to the underlying intellectual property for our Manocept platform, upon which all of our current product candidates are based. We may also enter into other license agreements or acquire other product candidates. The potential success of our product development programs depend on our ability to maintain rights under these licenses, including our ability to achieve development or commercialization milestones contained in the licenses. Under certain circumstances, the licensors have the power to terminate their agreements with us if we fail to meet our obligations under these licenses. We may not be able to meet our obligations under these licenses. If we default under any license agreement, we may lose our right to market and sell any products based on the licensed technology.. We may not have sufficient legal protection against infringement or loss of our intellectual property, and we may lose rights or protection related to our intellectual property if diligence requirements are not met, or at the expiry of underlying patents.. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to secure and maintain patent protection for our products and product candidates, to preserve our trade secrets, and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. While we seek to protect our proprietary positions by filing U.S. and foreign patent applications for our important inventions and improvements, domestic and foreign patent offices may not issue these patents. Third parties may challenge, invalidate, or circumvent our patents or patent applications in the future. Competitors, many of which have significantly more resources than we have and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may apply for and obtain patents that will prevent, limit, or interfere with our ability to make, use, or sell our products either in the United States or abroad.. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields in which we are or may be developing products. As the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry expands and more patents are issued, the risk increases that we will be subject to claims that our products or product candidates, or their use, infringe the rights of others. In the United States, most patent applications are secret for a period of 18 months after filing, and in foreign countries, patent applications are secret for varying periods of time after filing. Publications of discoveries tend to significantly lag the actual discoveries and the filing of related patent applications. Third parties may have already filed applications for patents for products or processes that will make our products obsolete, limit our patents, invalidate our patent applications or create a risk of infringement claims.. Under recent changes to U.S. patent law, the United States has moved to a “first to file” system of patent approval, as opposed to the former “first to invent” system. As a consequence, delays in filing patent applications for new product candidates or discoveries could result in the loss of patentability if there is an intervening patent application with similar claims filed by a third party, even if we or our collaborators were the first to invent.. We or our suppliers may be exposed to, or threatened with, future litigation by third parties having patent or other intellectual property rights alleging that our products, product candidates and/or technologies infringe their intellectual property rights or that the process of manufacturing our products or any of their respective component materials, or the component materials themselves, or the use of our products, product candidates or technologies, infringe their intellectual property rights. If one of these patents was found to cover our products, product candidates, technologies or their uses, or any of the underlying manufacturing processes or components, we could be required to pay damages and could be unable to commercialize our products or use our technologies or methods unless we are able to obtain a license to the patent or intellectual property right. A license may not be available to us in a timely manner or on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, during litigation, a patent holder could obtain a preliminary injunction or other equitable remedy that could prohibit us from making, using or selling our products, technologies or methods.. 21. Our currently held and licensed patents expire over the next three to twenty years. Expiration of the patents underlying our technology, in the absence of extensions or other trade secret or intellectual property protection, may have a material and adverse effect on us.. In addition, it may be necessary for us to enforce patents under which we have rights, or to determine the scope, validity and unenforceability of other parties’ proprietary rights, which may affect our rights. There can be no assurance that our patents would be held valid by a court or administrative body or that an alleged infringer would be found to be infringing. The uncertainty resulting from the mere institution and continuation of any patent related litigation or interference proceeding could have a material and adverse effect on us.. We typically require our employees, consultants, advisers and suppliers to execute confidentiality and assignment of invention agreements in connection with their employment, consulting, advisory, or supply relationships with us. They may breach these agreements and we may not obtain an adequate remedy for breach. Further, third parties may gain unauthorized access to our trade secrets or independently develop or acquire the same or equivalent information.. We and our collaborators may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights throughout the world.. Filing, prosecuting and defending patents on all of our product candidates and products, when and if we have any, in every jurisdiction would be prohibitively expensive. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we or our licensors have not obtained patent protection to develop their own products. These products may compete with our products, when and if we have any, and may not be covered by any of our or our licensors' patent claims or other intellectual property rights.. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to biotechnology and/or pharmaceuticals, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial cost and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business.. The intellectual property protection for our product candidates depends on third parties.. With respect to Manocept and NAV4694, we have licensed certain issued patents and pending patent applications covering the respective technologies underlying these product candidates and their commercialization and use and we have licensed certain issued patents and pending patent applications directed to product compositions and chemical modifications used in product candidates for commercialization, and the use and the manufacturing thereof.. The patents and pending patent applications underlying our licenses do not cover all potential product candidates, modifications and uses. In the case of patents and patent applications licensed from UCSD, we did not have any control over the filing of the patents and patent applications before the effective date of the Manocept licenses, and have had limited control over the filing and prosecution of these patents and patent applications after the effective date of such licenses. In the case of patents and patent applications licensed from AstraZeneca, we have limited control over the filing, prosecution or enforcement of these patents or patent applications. We cannot be certain that such prosecution efforts have been or will be conducted in compliance with applicable laws and regulations or will result in valid and enforceable patents. We also cannot be assured that our licensors or their respective licensing partners will agree to enforce any such patent rights at our request or devote sufficient efforts to attain a desirable result. Any failure by our licensors or any of their respective licensing partners to properly protect the intellectual property rights relating to our product candidates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation.. We may become involved in disputes with licensors or potential future collaborators over intellectual property ownership, and publications by our research collaborators and scientific advisors could impair our ability to obtain patent protection or protect our proprietary information, which, in either case, could have a significant effect on our business.. Inventions discovered under research, material transfer or other such collaborative agreements may become jointly owned by us and the other party to such agreements in some cases and the exclusive property of either party in other cases. Under some circumstances, it may be difficult to determine who owns a particular invention, or whether it is jointly owned, and disputes could arise regarding ownership of those inventions. These disputes could be costly and time consuming and an unfavorable outcome could have a significant adverse effect on our business if we were not able to protect our license rights to these inventions. In addition, our research collaborators and scientific advisors generally have contractual rights to publish our data and other proprietary information, subject to our prior review. Publications by our research collaborators and scientific advisors containing such information, either with our permission or in contravention of the terms of their agreements with us, may impair our ability to obtain patent protection or protect our proprietary information, which could significantly harm our business.. 22. We may be unable to complete partnering or divestiture activities related to NAV4694 at a reasonable price, on a timely basis, or at all.. We continue to seek to partner or sub-license NAV4694, which is designed to enable PET imaging of beta-amyloid deposits in the brain, believed to correlate with the presence of AD. In October 2017, the Company executed a letter of intent with Sinotau and Cerveau, outlining a plan to sublicense to Cerveau the worldwide rights to conduct research using NAV4694, as well as grant to Cerveau an exclusive license for the development, marketing and commercialization of NAV4694 in Australia, Canada, China and Singapore. The letter of intent includes a provision stating that Sinotau will release all claims in the Sinotau Litigation upon the parties’ execution of a definitive agreement; the commercial rights agreement contemplated by the letter of intent would also include a release of such claims and a covenant not to sue on such claims. See Item 3 – Legal Proceedings. Pending resolution of the Sinotau litigation, we continue to incur costs to maintain our ability to support future clinical evaluation of this product candidate to preserve it for eventual sub-licensing.. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of employees and clinical trial subjects, in our data centers and on our networks. The secure maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and regulatory penalties, disrupt our operations, and damage our reputation, which could adversely affect our business, revenues and competitive position.. Failure to comply with domestic and international privacy and security laws can result in the imposition of significant civil and criminal penalties. The costs of compliance with these laws, including protecting electronically stored information from cyber-attacks, and potential liability associated with failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to various domestic and international privacy and security regulations, including but not limited to The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”). HIPAA mandates, among other things, the adoption of uniform standards for the electronic exchange of information in common healthcare transactions, as well as standards relating to the privacy and security of individually identifiable health information, which require the adoption of administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect such information. In addition, many states have enacted comparable laws addressing the privacy and security of health information, some of which are more stringent than HIPAA.. A security breach or privacy violation that leads to disclosure of consumer information (including personally identifiable information or protected health information) could harm our reputation, compel us to comply with disparate state and foreign breach notification laws and otherwise subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue.. Despite our efforts to protect against cyber-attacks and security breaches, hackers and other cyber criminals are using increasingly sophisticated and constantly evolving techniques, and we may need to expend substantial additional resources to continue to protect against potential security breaches or to address problems caused by such attacks or any breach of our safeguards. In addition, a data security breach could distract management or other key personnel from performing their primary operational duties.. The interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the United States, Europe and elsewhere are often uncertain, contradictory and in flux. Among other things, foreign privacy laws impose significant obligations on U.S. companies to protect the personal information of foreign citizens. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.. We do not currently carry cyber risk insurance. If we are subject to liability resulting from a security breach or other disruption in our information systems, we could be exposed to significant liability that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We are subject to domestic and foreign anticorruption laws, the violation of which could expose us to liability, and cause our business and reputation to suffer.. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions. These laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from engaging in bribery or making other prohibited payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and some have record keeping requirements. The failure to comply with these laws could result in substantial criminal and/or monetary penalties. We operate in jurisdictions that have experienced corruption, bribery, pay-offs and other similar practices from time-to-time and, in certain circumstances, such practices may be local custom. We have implemented internal control policies and procedures that mandate compliance with these anti-corruption laws. However, we cannot be certain that these policies and procedures will protect us against liability. If our employees or other agents engage in such conduct, we might be held responsible and we could suffer severe criminal or civil penalties and other consequences that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and/or cash flow, and the market value of our common stock could decline.. 23. Our international operations expose us to economic, legal, regulatory and currency risks.. Our operations extend to countries outside the United States, and are subject to the risks inherent in conducting business globally and under the laws, regulations, and customs of various jurisdictions. These risks include: (i) failure to comply with a variety of national and local laws of countries in which we do business, including restrictions on the import and export of certain intermediates, drugs, and technologies, (ii) failure to comply with a variety of US laws including the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012; and rules relating to the use of certain “conflict minerals” under Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, (iii) changes in laws, regulations, and practices affecting the pharmaceutical industry and the health care system, including but not limited to imports, exports, manufacturing, quality, cost, pricing, reimbursement, approval, inspection, and delivery of health care, (iv) fluctuations in exchange rates for transactions conducted in currencies other than the functional currency, (v) adverse changes in the economies in which we or our partners and suppliers operate as a result of a slowdown in overall growth, a change in government or economic policies, or financial, political, or social change or instability in such countries that affects the markets in which we operate, particularly emerging markets, (vi) differing local product preferences and product requirements, (vii) changes in employment laws, wage increases, or rising inflation in the countries in which we or our partners and suppliers operate, (viii) supply disruptions, and increases in energy and transportation costs, (ix) natural disasters, including droughts, floods, and earthquakes in the countries in which we operate, (x) local disturbances, terrorist attacks, riots, social disruption, or regional hostilities in the countries in which we or our partners and suppliers operate and (xi) government uncertainty, including as a result of new or changed laws and regulations. We also face the risk that some of our competitors have more experience with operations in such countries or with international operations generally and may be able to manage unexpected crises more easily. Furthermore, whether due to language, cultural or other differences, public and other statements that we make may be misinterpreted, misconstrued, or taken out of context in different jurisdictions. Moreover, the internal political stability of, or the relationship between, any country or countries where we conduct business operations may deteriorate. Changes in a country’s political stability or the state of relations between any such countries are difficult to predict and could adversely affect our operations, profitability and/or adversely impact our ability to do business there. The occurrence of any of the above risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and/or cash flow, and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.. We may have difficulty raising additional capital, which could deprive us of necessary resources to pursue our business plans.. We expect to devote significant capital resources to fund research and development, to maintain existing and secure new manufacturing resources, and potentially to acquire new product candidates. In order to support the initiatives envisioned in our business plan, we will likely need to raise additional funds through the sale of assets, public or private debt or equity financing, collaborative relationships or other arrangements. Our ability to raise additional financing depends on many factors beyond our control, including the state of capital markets, the market price of our common stock and the development or prospects for development of competitive technology by others. Sufficient additional financing may not be available to us or may be available only on terms that would result in further dilution to the current owners of our common stock.. Our future expenditures on our programs are subject to many uncertainties, including whether our product candidates will be developed or commercialized with a partner or independently. Our future capital requirements will depend on, and could increase significantly as a result of, many factors, including:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe final outcome of the Texas CRG litigation and other litigation;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe costs of seeking regulatory approval for our product candidates, including any nonclinical testing or bioequivalence or clinical studies, process development, scale-up and other manufacturing and stability activities, or other work required to achieve such approval, as well as the timing of such activities and approval;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe extent to which we invest in or acquire new technologies, product candidates, products or businesses and the development requirements with respect to any acquired programs;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe scope, prioritization and number of development and/or commercialization programs we pursue and the rate of progress and costs with respect to such programs;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe costs related to developing, acquiring and/or contracting for sales, marketing and distribution capabilities and regulatory compliance capabilities, if we commercialize any of our product candidates for which we obtain regulatory approval without a partner;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe timing and terms of any collaborative, licensing and other strategic arrangements that we may establish;. 24. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe extent to which we may need to expand our workforce to pursue our business plan, and the costs involved in recruiting, training, compensating and incentivizing new employees;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe effect of competing technological and market developments; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe cost involved in establishing, enforcing or defending patent claims and other intellectual property rights.. If we are unsuccessful in raising additional capital, or the terms of raising such capital are unacceptable, we may have to modify our business plan and/or significantly curtail our planned development activities, acquisition of new product candidates and other operations.. There may be future sales or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of shares of our common stock.. Our existing warrants or other securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock, or securities we may issue in the future, may contain adjustment provisions that could increase the number of shares issuable upon exercise, conversion or exchange, as the case may be, and decrease the exercise, conversion or exchange price. The market price of our shares of common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock or other securities in the market, the triggering of any such adjustment provisions or the perception that such sales could occur in the future.. The final outcome of the Texas CRG litigation may require us to pay up to an additional $7.0 million, which would adversely affect our financial position.. During the course of 2016, CRG alleged multiple claims of default on the CRG Loan Agreement, and filed suit in the District Court of Harris County, Texas (the “Texas Court”). On June 22, 2016, CRG exercised control over one of the Company’s primary bank accounts and took possession of $4.1 million that was on deposit, applying $3.9 million of the cash to various fees, including collection fees, a prepayment premium and an end-of-term fee. The remaining $189,000 was applied to the principal balance of the debt. Multiple motions, actions and hearings followed over the remainder of 2016 and into 2017.. On March 3, 2017, the Company entered into a Global Settlement Agreement with MT, CRG, and Cardinal Health 414 to effectuate the terms of a settlement previously entered into by the parties on February 22, 2017. In accordance with the Global Settlement Agreement, on March 3, 2017, the Company repaid $59.0 million (the “Deposit Amount”) of its alleged indebtedness and other obligations outstanding under the CRG Term Loan. Concurrently with payment of the Deposit Amount, CRG released all liens and security interests granted under the CRG Loan Documents and the CRG Loan Documents were terminated and are of no further force or effect; provided, however, that, notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company and CRG agreed to continue with their proceeding pending in the Texas Court to fully and finally determine the actual amount owed by the Company to CRG under the CRG Loan Documents (the “Final Payoff Amount”). The Company and CRG further agreed that the Final Payoff Amount would be no less than $47.0 million (the “Low Payoff Amount”) and no more than $66.0 million (the “High Payoff Amount”). In addition, concurrently with the payment of the Deposit Amount and closing of the Asset Sale, (i) Cardinal Health 414 agreed to post a $7.0 million letter of credit in favor of CRG (at the Company’s cost and expense to be deducted from the closing proceeds due to the Company, and subject to Cardinal Health 414’s indemnification rights under the Purchase Agreement) as security for the amount by which the High Payoff Amount exceeds the Deposit Amount in the event the Company is unable to pay all or a portion of such amount, and (ii) CRG agreed to post a $12.0 million letter of credit in favor of the Company as security for the amount by which the Deposit Amount exceeds the Low Payoff Amount. If, on the one hand, it is finally determined by the Texas Court that the amount the Company owes to CRG under the Loan Documents exceeds the Deposit Amount, the Company will pay such excess amount, plus the costs incurred by CRG in obtaining CRG’s letter of credit, to CRG and if, on the other hand, it is finally determined by the Texas Court that the amount the Company owes to CRG under the Loan Documents is less than the Deposit Amount, CRG will pay such difference to the Company and reimburse Cardinal Health 414 for the costs incurred by Cardinal Health 414 in obtaining its letter of credit. Any payments owing to CRG arising from a final determination that the Final Payoff Amount is in excess of $59.0 million shall first be paid by the Company without resort to the letter of credit posted by Cardinal Health 414, and such letter of credit shall only be a secondary resource in the event of failure of the Company to make payment to CRG. The Company will indemnify Cardinal Health 414 for any costs it incurs in payment to CRG under the settlement, and the Company and Cardinal Health 414 further agree that Cardinal Health 414 can pursue all possible remedies, including offset against earnout payments (guaranteed or otherwise) under the Purchase Agreement, warrant exercise, or any other payments owed by Cardinal Health 414, or any of its affiliates, to the Company, or any of its affiliates, if Cardinal Health 414 incurs any cost associated with payment to CRG under the settlement. The $2.0 million being held in escrow pursuant to court order in the Ohio case and the $3.0 million being held in escrow pursuant to court order in the Texas case were released to the Company at closing of the Asset Sale. On March 3, 2017, Cardinal Health 414 posted a $7.0 million letter of credit, and on March 7, 2017, CRG posted a $12.0 million letter of credit, each as required by the Global Settlement Agreement.. 25. The trial was held in Texas in December 2017.  The Texas Court ruled that the Company’s total obligation to CRG is in excess of $66.0 million, limited to $66.0 million under the Global Settlement Agreement.  The Texas Court acknowledged only the $59.0 million payment made in March 2017, concluding that the Company owes CRG another $7.0 million, however the Texas Court did not expressly take the Company’s June 2016 payment of $4.1 million into account.  The Company believes that this $4.1 million should be credited against the $7 million; CRG disagrees.  On January 16, 2018, the Company filed an emergency motion to set supersedeas bond and to modify judgment, describing the Texas Court’s oversight of not explaining how to apply the $4.1 million payment, requesting that the judgment be modified to set the supersedeas amount at $2.9 million so that the Company can stay enforcement of the judgment pending appeal.  The Texas Court refused to rule on this motion, and the court of appeals entered an order compelling the Texas Court to set a supersedeas amount.  The Texas Court has scheduled a hearing on the issue for March 26, 2018, however it has not yet set the amount, and enforcement of the judgment is stayed until seven days after the Texas Court does so.  We currently await further action by the Texas Court.  If we are ultimately required to pay an additional $7.0 million to CRG, such payment would have a significant adverse effect on our financial position and would likely force us to curtail our planned development activities.. Shares of common stock are equity securities and are subordinate to our existing and future indebtedness and preferred stock.. Shares of our common stock are common equity interests. This means that our common stock ranks junior to any preferred stock that we may issue in the future, to our indebtedness and to all creditor claims and other non-equity claims against us and our assets available to satisfy claims on us, including claims in a bankruptcy or similar proceeding. Our future indebtedness and preferred stock may restrict payments of dividends on our common stock.. Additionally, unlike indebtedness, where principal and interest customarily are payable on specified due dates, in the case of our common stock, (i) dividends are payable only when and if declared by our Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of our Board of Directors, and (ii) as a corporation, we are restricted to making dividend payments and redemption payments out of legally available assets. We have never paid a dividend on our common stock and have no current intention to pay dividends in the future. Furthermore, our common stock places no restrictions on our business or operations or on our ability to incur indebtedness or engage in any transactions, subject only to the voting rights available to shareholders generally.. The continuing contentious federal budget negotiations may have an impact on our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict, and may further limit our ability to raise additional funds.. The continuing federal budget disputes not only may adversely affect financial markets, but could also delay or reduce research grant funding and adversely affect operations of government agencies that regulate us, including the FDA, potentially causing delays in obtaining key regulatory approvals. Research funding for life science research has increased more slowly during the past several years compared to previous years and has declined in some countries, and some grants have been frozen for extended periods of time or otherwise become unavailable to various institutions, sometimes without advance notice. Government funding of research and development is subject to the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. Other programs, such as homeland security or defense, or general efforts to reduce the federal budget deficit could be viewed by the U.S. government as a higher priority. These budgetary pressures may result in reduced allocations to government agencies that fund research and development activities. National Institute of Health and other research and development allocations have been diminished in recent years by federal budget control efforts. The prolonged or increased shift away from the funding of life sciences research and development or delays surrounding the approval of government budget proposals may result in reduced research grant funding, which could delay development of our product candidates.. Our failure to maintain continued compliance with the listing requirements of the NYSE American exchange could result in the delisting of our common stock.. Our common stock has been listed on the NYSE American since February 2011. The rules of NYSE American provide that shares be delisted from trading in the event the financial condition and/or operating results of the Company appear to be unsatisfactory, the extent of public distribution or the aggregate market value of the common stock has become so reduced as to make further dealings on the NYSE American inadvisable, the Company has sold or otherwise disposed of its principal operating assets, or has ceased to be an operating company, or the Company has failed to comply with its listing agreements with the Exchange. For example, the NYSE American may consider suspending trading in, or removing the listing of, securities of an issuer that has stockholders’ equity of less than $6.0 million if such issuer has sustained losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in its five most recent fiscal years. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had stockholders’ equity of approximately $12.0 million. However, the Company had stockholders’ deficits for several years prior to December 31, 2017, and we may not be able to maintain stockholders’ equity in the future. Even if an issuer has a stockholders’ deficit, the NYSE American will not normally consider removing from the list securities of an issuer that fails to meet these requirements if the issuer has (1) total value of market capitalization of at least $50,000,000; or total assets and revenue of $50,000,000 each in its last fiscal year, or in two of its last three fiscal years; and (2) the issuer has at least 1,100,000 shares publicly held, a market value of publicly held shares of at least $15,000,000 and 400 round lot shareholders.  Based on the number of outstanding shares of our common stock, recent trading price of that stock, and number of round lot holders, we believe that we meet these exception criteria and that our common stock will not be delisted as a result of our failure to meet the minimum stockholders' equity requirement for continued listing. The Company may not be able to continue to meet these and other requirements necessary to maintain the listing of our common stock on the NYSE American. For example, we may determine to grow our organization or product pipeline or pursue development or other activities at levels or on timelines that reduces our stockholders’ equity below the level required to maintain compliance with NYSE American continued listing standards.. 26. The NYSE American Company Guide also provides that the Exchange may suspend or remove from listing any common stock selling for a substantial period of time at a low price per share, if the issuer shall fail to effect a reverse split of such shares within a reasonable time after being notified that the Exchange deems such action to be appropriate under all the circumstances. The Company’s common stock has recently traded for a price as low as $0.31 per share, and if the low trading price persists, there is a risk that the Exchange may require the Company to effect a reverse split of its common stock in order to maintain its NYSE American listing, and that the shares will be delisted if such action is not taken to the satisfaction of the NYSE American.. The delisting of our common stock from the NYSE American likely would reduce the trading volume and liquidity in our common stock and may lead to decreases in the trading price of our common stock. The delisting of our common stock may also materially impair our stockholders’ ability to buy and sell shares of our common stock. In addition, the delisting of our common stock could significantly impair our ability to raise capital, which is critical to the execution of our current business strategy.. The price of our common stock has been highly volatile due to several factors that will continue to affect the price of our stock.. Our common stock traded as low as $0.31 per share and as high as $0.85 per share during the 12-month period ended February 28, 2018. The market price of our common stock has been and is expected to continue to be highly volatile. Factors, including announcements of technological innovations by us or other companies, regulatory matters, new or existing products or procedures, concerns about our financial position, operating results, litigation, government regulation, developments or disputes relating to agreements, patents or proprietary rights, may have a significant impact on the market price of our stock. In addition, potential dilutive effects of future sales of shares of common stock by the Company and by stockholders, and subsequent sale of common stock by the holders of warrants and options could have an adverse effect on the market price of our shares.. Some additional factors which could lead to the volatility of our common stock include:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprice and volume fluctuations in the stock market at large or of companies in our industry which do not relate to our operating performance;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance or deviations in our business and the trading price of our common stock from the estimates of securities analysts;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tFDA or international regulatory actions and regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfinancing arrangements we may enter that require the issuance of a significant number of shares in relation to the number of shares currently outstanding;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpublic concern as to the safety of products that we or others develop;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactivities of short sellers in our stock; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfluctuations in market demand for and supply of our products.. The realization of any of the foregoing could have a dramatic and adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. In addition, class action litigation has often been instituted against companies whose securities have experienced substantial decline in market price. Moreover, regulatory entities often undertake investigations of investor transactions in securities that experience volatility following an announcement of a significant event or condition. Any such litigation brought against us or any such investigation involving our investors could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could hurt our business, operating results and financial condition.. An investor’s ability to trade our common stock may be limited by trading volume.. During the 12-month period beginning on March 1, 2017 and ending on February 28, 2018, the average daily trading volume for our common stock on the NYSE American was approximately 435,000 shares. However, this trading volume may not be consistently maintained in the future. If the trading volume for our common stock decreases, there could be a relatively limited market for our common stock and the share price of our common stock would be more likely to be affected by broad market fluctuations, general market conditions, fluctuations in our operating results, changes in the market’s perception of our business and announcements made by us, our competitors or parties with whom we have business relationships. There may also be fewer institutional investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock. Such a lack of liquidity in our common stock may make it difficult for us to issue additional securities for financing or other purposes or to otherwise arrange for any financing that we may need in the future.. The market price of our common stock may be adversely affected by market conditions affecting the stock markets in general, including price and trading fluctuations on the NYSE American exchange.. The market price of our common stock may be adversely affected by market conditions affecting the stock markets in general, including price and trading fluctuations on the NYSE American. These conditions may result in (i) volatility in the level of, and fluctuations in, the market prices of stocks generally and, in turn, our shares of common stock, and (ii) sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the market, in each case that could be unrelated or disproportionate to changes in our operating performance.. 27. Because we do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, stockholders will only benefit from owning common stock if it appreciates.. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our common stock to date, and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, with respect to our common stock, we do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future, and payment of cash dividends, if any, will also depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and other factors and will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors. Furthermore, we are subject to various laws and regulations that may restrict our ability to pay dividends and we may in the future become subject to contractual restrictions on, or prohibitions against, the payment of dividends. Due to our intent to retain any future earnings rather than pay cash dividends on our common stock and applicable laws, regulations and contractual obligations that may restrict our ability to pay dividends on our common stock, the success of your investment in our common stock will likely depend entirely upon any future appreciation and there is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value.. We may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified personnel and our business may suffer if we do not.. Our business has experienced a number of successes and faced several challenges in recent years that have resulted in several significant changes in our strategy and business plan, including the shifting of resources to support our current development initiatives. Our management will need to remain flexible to support our business model over the next few years. However, losing members of the Navidea management team could have an adverse effect on our operations. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain technical and management personnel with expertise and experience in the pharmaceutical industry, and the acquisition of additional product candidates may require us to acquire additional highly qualified personnel. The competition for qualified personnel in the biotechnology industry is intense and we may not be successful in hiring or retaining the requisite personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified technical and management personnel, we will suffer diminished chances of future success.. Healthcare reform measures could hinder or prevent the commercial success of our products.. In March 2010, President Obama signed into law a legislative overhaul of the U.S. healthcare system, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “PPACA”), which had far-reaching consequences for many healthcare companies, including diagnostic companies like ours. For example, if reimbursement for our products is substantially less than we or our customers expect, our business could be materially and adversely impacted. However, the future of the PPACA is uncertain and at this juncture there will be a period of uncertainty regarding the PPACA’s repeal, modification or replacement or the effect of the changes made to the PPACA under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, any of which could have long term financial impact on the delivery of and payment for healthcare in the United States.. Regardless of the impact of the PPACA on us, the U.S. government and other governments have shown significant interest in pursuing healthcare reform and reducing healthcare costs.  Any government-adopted reform measures could cause significant pressure on the pricing of healthcare products and services in the United States and internationally, as well as the amount of reimbursement available from governmental agencies and other third-party payors.. Actual and anticipated changes to the regulations of the healthcare system and U.S. tax laws may have a negative impact on the cost of healthcare coverage and reimbursement of healthcare services and products.. The FDA and comparable agencies in other jurisdictions directly regulate many critical activities of life science, technology, and healthcare industries, including the conduct of preclinical and clinical studies, product manufacturing, advertising and promotion, product distribution, adverse event reporting, and product risk management. In both domestic and foreign markets, sales of products depend in part on the availability and amount of reimbursement by third-party payors, including governments and private health plans. Governments may regulate coverage, reimbursement, and pricing of products to control cost or affect utilization of products. Private health plans may also seek to manage cost and utilization by implementing coverage and reimbursement limitations. Substantial uncertainty exists regarding the reimbursement by third-party payors of newly approved healthcare products. The U.S. and foreign governments regularly consider reform measures that affect healthcare coverage and costs. Such reforms may include changes to the coverage and reimbursement of healthcare services and products. In particular, there have been recent judicial and Congressional challenges to the PPACA, which could have an impact on coverage and reimbursement for healthcare services covered by plans authorized by the PPACA, and we expect there will be additional challenges and amendments to the PPACA in the future.. Attempts to repeal or to repeal and replace the PPACA will likely continue under the current Congress. In addition, various other healthcare reform proposals have emerged at the federal and state level. The recent changes to U.S. tax laws could also negatively impact the PPACA. We cannot predict what healthcare initiatives or tax law changes, if any, will be implemented at the federal or state level, however, government and other regulatory oversight and future regulatory and government interference with the healthcare systems could adversely impact our business.. 28. We may not be able to maintain compliance with our internal controls and procedures.. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies. In addition, we are required under the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 to report annually on our internal control over financial reporting. Any system of internal controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulation concerning control and procedures could have a material effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. Any of these events could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could negatively affect the market price of our shares, increase the volatility of our stock price and adversely affect our ability to raise additional funding. The effect of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our Board of Directors and our Board committees and as executive officers."                                                                                                
