[1] "Item 1A.    RISK FACTORS. The risks and uncertainties described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections, and could cause the market value of our stock to decline. You should consider these risk factors when reading the rest of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and our financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this document. These risk factors may not include all of the important factors that could affect our business or our industry or that could cause our future financial results to differ materially from historic or expected results or cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate or decline.. Economic Pressures. Our business may be negatively affected by domestic and global economic and credit conditions. Our business is sensitive to the strength of domestic and global economic and credit conditions, particularly as they affect, either directly or indirectly, the financial services, retail and hospitality sectors of the economy. Economic and credit conditions are influenced by a number of factors, including political conditions, consumer confidence, unemployment levels, interest rates, tax rates, commodity prices and government actions to stimulate economic growth. The imposition or threat of protectionist trade policies or import or export tariffs, global and regional market conditions and spending trends in the financial services and retail industries, new comprehensive U.S. tax legislation, modified or new global or regional trade agreements, the determination by the United Kingdom to exit the European Union. (EU), uncertainty over further potential changes in Eurozone participation and fluctuations in oil and commodity prices, among other things, have created a challenging and unpredictable environment in which to market the products and services of our various businesses across our different geographies and industries.  A negative or unpredictable economic climate could create uncertainty or financial pressures that impact the ability or willingness of our customers to make capital expenditures, thereby affecting their decision to purchase or roll out our products or services or, especially with respect to smaller customers, to pay accounts receivable owed to NCR. Additionally, if customers respond to a negative or unpredictable economic climate by consolidation, it could reduce our base of potential customers. Negative or unpredictable global economic conditions also may have a material effect on our customers' ability to obtain financing for the purchase of our products and services from third party financing companies, which could adversely affect our operating results.. Business Model. If we are unsuccessful in transforming our business model, our operating results could be negatively impacted. In recent years, we have shifted our business model to become a global technology solutions company that uses software and value-added endpoints, coupled with higher-margin services and a focus on cloud and mobile, to help our customers deliver a rich, integrated and personalized experience to consumers across commerce channels. Our success depends heavily on our ability to continue to grow our higher-margin software and services businesses. Our ability to grow these businesses depends on a number of different factors including, among others, developing, deploying and supporting the next generation of integrated, platform-based software solutions for the industries we serve; market acceptance of our new and existing software and cloud solutions; enabling our sales force to use a consultative selling model that better incorporates our comprehensive and new solutions; transforming our services performance, capabilities and coverage to improve efficiency, incorporate remote diagnostic and other technologies and align with and support our new solutions; managing professional services and other costs associated with large solution roll-outs; and integrating, developing and supporting software gained through acquisitions. In addition, development of these businesses may require increased capital and research and development expenses and resource allocation, and while we will seek to have the right level of investment and the right level of resources focused on these opportunities, these costs may reduce our gross margins and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect. In addition, we continue to pursue initiatives to expand our customer base by increasing our use of indirect sales channels, and by developing, marketing and selling solutions aimed at the small- to medium-business market. It is not yet certain whether these initiatives will yield the anticipated benefits, or whether our solutions will be compelling and attractive to small- and medium-sized businesses. If we are not successful in growing our higher-margin software and services businesses and expanding our customer base at the rate that we anticipate, we may not meet our growth and gross margin projections or expectations, and operating results could be negatively impacted.. Competition. If we do not compete effectively within the technology industry, we will not be successful. We operate in the intensely competitive information technology industry. This industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology, disruptive technological innovation, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, price and cost reductions, and increasingly greater commoditization of products making differentiation difficult. Our traditional competitors include other large companies in the information technology industry, such as: Hewlett-Packard Inc., Diebold Nixdorf, Nautilus Hyosung, ToshibaTec, Micros (Oracle), Fujitsu, Q2 Holdings and ACI Worldwide, some of which have more financial and technical resources, or more widespread distribution and market penetration for their platforms and service offerings, than we do. We also compete with companies in specific industry segments, such as entry-level ATMs, point-of-sale solutions and imaging solutions. In addition, as consumers and customers in the financial services, retail and hospitality industry adopt new alternative technologies such as cashless and other streamlined payment services and automated shopping solutions, we may face competition from other technology companies.. 8. Table of Contents. Our future competitive performance and market position depend on a number of factors, including our ability to:. • react to competitive product and pricing pressures;. • penetrate and meet the changing competitive requirements and deliverables in developing and emerging markets;. • exploit opportunities in emerging vertical markets, such as travel and telecommunications and technology;. • cross-sell additional products and services to our existing customer base;. • rapidly and continually design, develop and market, or otherwise maintain and introduce innovative solutions and related products and services for our customers that are competitive in the marketplace;. • react on a timely basis to shifts in market demands and technological innovations, including shifts toward the desire of banks and retailers to provide an omni-channel experience to their customers and the use of mobile devices in transactions and payments;. • compete in reverse auctions for new and continuing business;. • reduce costs without creating operating inefficiencies or impairing product or service quality;. • maintain competitive operating margins;. • improve product and service delivery quality; and. • effectively market and sell all of our diverse solutions.. Our business and operating performance also could be impacted by external competitive pressures, such as consolidation, increasing price erosion and the entry of new competitors and technologies into our existing product and geographic markets. In addition, our customers sometimes finance our product sales through third party financing companies, and in the case of customer default, these financing companies may be forced to resell this equipment at discounted prices, competing with us and impacting our ability to sell incremental units. The impact of these product and pricing pressures could include lower customer satisfaction, decreased demand for our solutions, loss of market share and reduction of operating profits.. Introduction of New Solutions. If we do not swiftly and successfully develop and introduce new solutions in the competitive, rapidly changing environment in which we do business, our business results will be impacted. The development process for our solutions requires high levels of innovation from our product development teams and suppliers of the components embedded or incorporated in our solutions. In addition, certain of our solutions, including our cloud solutions, may require us to build, lease or expand, and maintain, infrastructure (such as hosting centers) to support them. The development process also can be lengthy and costly, and requires us to commit a significant amount of resources to bring our business solutions to market. We may not be able to anticipate our customers' needs and technological and industry trends accurately, or to complete development of new solutions efficiently. In addition, contract terms, market conditions or customer preferences may affect our ability to limit, sunset or end-of-life our older products in a timely or cost-effective fashion. If any of these risks materialize, we may be unable to introduce new solutions into the market on a timely basis, if at all, and our business and operating results could be impacted. Likewise, we sometimes make assurances to customers regarding the operability and specifications of new technologies, and our results could be impacted if we are unable to deliver such technologies, or if such technologies do not perform as planned. Once we have developed new solutions, if we cannot successfully market and sell those solutions, our business and operating results could be impacted.. Data Privacy and Cybersecurity. Cybersecurity and data privacy issues could negatively impact our business. Our products and services, including our cloud and hosted solutions, facilitate financial and other transactions for the customers in the industries we serve. As a result, we collect, use, transmit and store certain of the transaction and personal information of our customers and the end-users of our solutions. We also may have access to transaction and personal information of our customers and their customers through or in the course of servicing our products or third party products. Additionally, we collect, use and store personal information of our employees and the personnel of our business partners, such as resellers, suppliers and contractors, in the ordinary course of business. While we have programs and measures in place designed to safeguard this data, and while we have implemented access controls designed to limit the risk of unauthorized use or disclosure by employees and contractors, the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to this data are complex and changing, and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time. An attack, disruption, intrusion, denial of service, theft or other breach, or an inadvertent act by an employee or contractor, could result in unauthorized access to, or. 9. Table of Contents. disclosure of, this data, resulting in claims, costs and reputational harm that could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We may also detect, or may receive notice from third parties (including governmental agencies) regarding potential vulnerabilities in our information technology systems, our products, or third party products used in conjunction with our products. Even if these potential vulnerabilities do not result in a data breach, their existence can adversely affect customer confidence and our reputation in the marketplace. To the extent such vulnerabilities require remediation, such remedial measures could require significant resources and may not be implemented before such vulnerabilities are exploited. As the cybersecurity landscape evolves, we may also find it necessary to make significant further investments to protect data and infrastructure.. The personal information and data that we process and store also is increasingly subject to the data security and data privacy laws of many jurisdictions, including the United States and the EU and its member states. These laws may conflict with one another, and many of them are subject to frequent modification and differing interpretations. The laws include the EU's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which goes into effect in May 2018. The GDPR is expected to impose a significant compliance burden on many companies with operations in the EU, and it includes fines of up to 20 million Euros or up to 4% of the annual global revenues of the infringer for failures to comply. The laws also cover the transfer of personal information, including transfers of employee information between us and our subsidiaries, across international borders, including with respect to the EU, Australia and Japan. Complying with these evolving and varying requirements could require significant expense and effort, and could require us to change our business practices or the functionality of our products and services in a manner adverse to our customers and our business. In addition, violations of these laws can result in significant penalties, claims by regulators or other third parties, and damage to our brand and business.. Defects, Errors and Disruptions. Defects, errors, installation difficulties or development delays could expose us to potential liability, harm our reputation and negatively impact our business. Many of our products are sophisticated and complex, and may incorporate third-party hardware and software. Despite testing and quality control, we cannot be certain that defects or errors will not be found in our products. If our products contain undetected defects or errors, or otherwise fail to meet our customers' expectations, we could face the loss of customers, liability exposure and additional development costs. If defects or errors delay product installation or make it more difficult, we could experience delays in customer acceptance, or if our products require significant amounts of customer support, it could result in incremental costs to us. In addition, our customers who license and deploy our software may do so in both standard and non-standard configurations in different environments with different computer platforms, system management software and equipment and networking configurations, which may increase the likelihood of technical difficulties. Our products may be integrated with other components or software, and, in the event that there are defects or errors, it may be difficult to determine the origin of such defects or errors. Additionally, damage to, or failure or unavailability of, any significant aspect of our cloud hosting facilities could interrupt the availability of our cloud offerings, which could cause disruption for our customers, and, in turn, their customers, and expose us to liability. If any of these risks materialize, they could result in additional costs and expenses, exposure to liability claims, diversion of technical and other resources to engage in remediation efforts, loss of customers or negative publicity, each of which could impact our business and operating results.. Disruptions in our data center hosting facilities could adversely affect our business. Our software products are increasingly being offered and provided on a cloud or other hosted basis through data centers operated by the Company or third parties in the United States and other countries. In addition, certain of the applications and data that we use in our services offerings and our operations may be hosted or stored at such facilities. These facilities may be vulnerable to natural disasters, telecommunications failures and similar events, or to intentional acts of misconduct, such as security breaches or attacks. The occurrence of any of these events or acts, or any other unanticipated problems, at these facilities could result in damage to or the unavailability of these cloud hosting facilities. Such damage or unavailability could, despite existing disaster recovery and business continuity arrangements, interrupt the availability of our cloud offerings for our customers. We have from time to time experienced such interruptions and they may occur in the future. In addition, any such damage or unavailability could interrupt the availability of applications or data necessary to provide services or conduct critical operations. Interruptions in the availability of our cloud offerings or our ability to service our customers could result in the failure to meet contracted up-time or service levels, which could cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, or cause customers to terminate or not renew subscriptions. Interruptions could also expose us to liability claims, negative publicity and the need to engage in costly remediation efforts, any of which could impact our business and reduce our revenue.. Indebtedness and Repurchase Obligations.  Our level of indebtedness could limit our financial and operating activities and adversely affect our ability to incur additional debt to fund future needs. At December 31, 2017, we had approximately $3.01 billion of total indebtedness outstanding. Additionally, at December 31, 2017, we had approximately $1.10 billion of secured debt available for borrowing under our senior secured credit facility, and approximately $200 million of secured debt available for  borrowing under our trade receivables securitization facility. This level of indebtedness could:. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to the payment of principal and interest, thereby reducing the funds available for operations and future business opportunities;. 10. Table of Contents. • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our outstanding senior unsecured notes, including our change in control repurchase obligations;. • limit our ability to borrow additional money if needed for other purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes, on satisfactory terms or at all;. • limit our ability to adjust to changing economic, business and competitive conditions;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage with competitors who may have less indebtedness or greater access to financing;. • make us more vulnerable to an increase in interest rates, a downturn in our operating performance or a decline in general economic conditions; and. • make us more susceptible to adverse changes in credit ratings, which could impact our ability to obtain financing in the future and increase the cost of such financing.. If compliance with our debt obligations materially limits our financial or operating activities, or hinders our ability to adapt to changing industry conditions, we may lose market share, our revenue may decline and our operating results may be negatively affected.. The terms of the documents governing our indebtedness include financial and other covenants that could restrict or limit our financial and business operations. Our senior secured credit facility and the indentures for our senior unsecured notes include restrictive covenants that, subject to certain exceptions and qualifications, restrict or limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things:. • incur additional indebtedness;. • create liens on, sell or otherwise dispose of, our assets;. • engage in certain fundamental corporate changes or changes to our business activities;. • make certain investments or material acquisitions;. • engage in sale-leaseback or hedging transactions;. • repurchase our common stock, pay dividends or make similar distributions on our capital stock;. • repay certain indebtedness;. • engage in certain affiliate transactions; and. • enter into agreements that restrict our ability to create liens, pay dividends or make loan repayments.. The senior secured credit facility and the indentures also contain certain affirmative covenants, and the senior secured credit facility requires us to comply with financial coverage ratios regarding both our interest expense and our debt relative to our Consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the senior secured credit facility).. These covenants and restrictions could affect our ability to operate our business, and may limit our ability to react to market conditions or take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise.  Additionally, our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including general economic and credit conditions and industry downturns.. In addition, under our trade receivables securitization facility, we are required, among other things, to maintain certain financial tests relating to the three month rolling average ratio of defaults, delinquencies, dilution and days sales outstanding of the receivables pool (as such ratios and tests are described in the agreement governing our trade receivables securitization facility).. If we fail to comply with these covenants and are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment from the applicable lenders, an event of default would result under these agreements and under other agreements containing related cross-default provisions.. • Upon an event of default under the senior secured credit facility, the lenders could, among other things, declare outstanding amounts due and payable, refuse to lend additional amounts to us, or require us to deposit cash collateral in respect of outstanding letters of credit.  If we were unable to repay or pay the amounts due, the lenders could, among other things, proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness, which includes certain of our domestic assets and the equity interests of certain of our domestic and foreign subsidiaries.. 11. Table of Contents. • Upon an event of default under the indentures, the trustee or holders of our senior unsecured notes could declare all outstanding amounts immediately due and payable.. • Upon an event of default under our trade receivables securitization facility, the lenders could, among other things, terminate the facility, declare all capital and other obligations to be immediately due and payable, replace us as servicer, take over receivables lock-box accounts and redirect the collections of domestic accounts receivable from those accounts, and exercise available rights against the domestic accounts receivable pledged by NCR Receivables, LLC.. Despite our current levels of debt, we may still incur substantially more debt, including secured debt, and similar liabilities, which would increase the risks described in these risk factors relating to indebtedness and repurchase obligations. The agreements relating to our debt limit, but do not prohibit, our ability to incur additional debt, and the amount of debt that we could incur could be substantial. In addition, certain types of liabilities are not considered \"Indebtedness\" under our senior secured credit facility or the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes, and the senior secured credit facility and indentures do not impose any limitation on the amount of liabilities incurred by the subsidiaries, if any, that might be designated as \"unrestricted subsidiaries\" (as defined in the indentures). Accordingly, we could incur significant additional debt or similar liabilities in the future, including additional debt under our senior secured credit facility, some of which could constitute secured debt. In addition, if we form or acquire any subsidiaries in the future, those subsidiaries also could incur debt or similar liabilities. If new debt or similar liabilities are added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could increase.. Our cash flows may not be sufficient to service our indebtedness, and if we are unable to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, we may be required to seek other financing alternatives, which may not be successful.  Our ability to make timely payments of principal and interest on our debt obligations depends on our ability to generate positive cash flows from operations, which is subject to general economic conditions, competitive pressures and certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to make these payments, we may be required to seek additional financing sources, reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations or refinance our indebtedness. These actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to take any of these actions, and, even if successful, these actions may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our ability to restructure or refinance our outstanding indebtedness will depend on, among other things, the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. There can be no assurance that we will be able to restructure or refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and the outstanding principal and interest on our debt could be declared to be due and payable, in which case we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation or required to substantially restructure or alter our business operations or debt obligations.. Borrowings under our senior secured credit facility and trade receivables securitization facility bear interest at a variable rate, which subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.  All of our borrowings under our senior secured credit facility and trade receivables securitization facility are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on this variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same. Although we may enter into interest rate swaps or similar instruments to reduce interest rate volatility in connection with our variable rate borrowings, we cannot provide assurances that we will be able to do so or that such swaps or instruments will be effective.. We may not be able to raise the funds necessary to finance a required repurchase of our senior unsecured notes or our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. Upon the occurrence of a change in control under the applicable indenture governing the applicable senior unsecured notes, holders of those notes may require us to repurchase their notes. On any date during the three months commencing on and immediately following March 16, 2024 and the three months commencing on and immediately following every third anniversary of such date, holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock will have the right to require us to repurchase any or all of our outstanding Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. In addition, upon certain change of control events involving the Company, holders of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock can require us, subject to certain exceptions, to repurchase any or all of their Series A Convertible Preferred Stock.. It is possible that we would not have sufficient funds at the time that we are required to make any such purchase of notes or Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (or both). We cannot assure the holders of the senior unsecured notes and Series A Convertible Preferred Stock that we will have sufficient financial resources, or will be able to arrange financing, to pay the repurchase price in cash with respect to any such notes or Series A Convertible Preferred Stock that holders have requested to be repurchased upon a change in control or scheduled redemption. Our failure to repurchase the senior unsecured notes of a series when required would result in an event of default with respect to such notes which could, in turn, constitute a default under the terms of our other indebtedness, if any. If we are unable to repurchase all shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock that holders have requested to be purchased, then we are required to pay dividends on the shares not repurchased at a rate equal to 8.0% per annum, accruing daily from such date until the full purchase price, plus all accrued dividends, are paid in full in respect of such shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock.. 12. Table of Contents. In addition, a change in control may constitute an event of default under our senior secured credit facility and our trade receivables securitization facility that would permit the lenders to accelerate the maturity of the borrowings thereunder and would require us to make a similar change in control offer to holders of our existing senior unsecured notes.. Certain important corporate events, such as leveraged recapitalizations that would increase the level of our indebtedness, may not constitute a change in control under the indentures governing our secured notes or the terms of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock.. A lowering or withdrawal of the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating agencies may increase our future borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital. Any rating assigned to our debt could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in that rating agency's judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating, such as adverse changes, so warrant. Any future lowering of our ratings likely would make it more difficult or more expensive for us to obtain additional debt financing.. Operating Results Fluctuations. Our revenue, operating results, and margins could fluctuate for a number of reasons, including those described below:. Seasonality. Our sales are historically seasonal, with lower revenue in the first quarter and higher revenue in the fourth quarter of each year. Such seasonality also causes our working capital cash flow requirements to vary from quarter to quarter depending on the variability in the volume, timing and mix of product sales. In addition, revenue in the third month of each quarter is typically higher than in the first and second months, particularly as our business model shifts to include more software and cloud solutions. These factors, among other things, may adversely affect our ability to manage working capital, make our forecasting process more difficult and impact our ability to predict financial results accurately.. Income Taxes. We are a United States based multinational company subject to income taxes in the United States and a number of foreign jurisdictions. Our domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent on the distribution of our earnings among these different jurisdictions, and our provision for income taxes and cash tax liability could be adversely affected if the distribution of earnings is higher than expected in jurisdictions with higher statutory tax rates.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. President signed into law new legislation, referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (\"U.S. Tax Reform\"), that significantly revises the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Among other things, the new legislation reduces the U.S. corporate income tax rate, subjects interest deductions to potential limitations, alters the expensing of capital expenditures, adopts elements of a territorial tax system, includes a one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax on accumulated non-U.S. earnings of U.S. entities, and introduces certain anti-base erosion provisions. The legislation will affect our tax position and the cash taxes of our U.S. entities and will have a corresponding impact on our consolidated financial results starting in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year 2017. Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, we continue to assess the overall impact of the legislation, and there can be no assurances that it will have an overall favorable impact on our business, financial condition or effective tax rate. In addition, the legislation requires interpretations and implementing regulations by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), as well as state tax authorities, and could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, any of which could lessen or increase certain adverse impacts of the legislation. If we are unable to manage the adverse impacts of the legislation, they could have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. Our deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances, totaled approximately $608 million and $840 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, which, for 2017, reflects the remeasurement of our net U.S. deferred tax assets as a result of U.S. Tax Reform. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and establish a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. If we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income, if there is a material change in the actual effective tax rates or if there is a change to the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, then we could be required to increase our valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets, which could result in a material increase in our effective tax rate.. In addition, changes in foreign tax laws or tax rulings could affect our financial position and results of operations. For example, in light of continuing global fiscal challenges, various levels of government and international organizations such as the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and European Union (EU) are increasingly focused on tax reform and other legislative or regulatory action to increase tax revenue. These tax reform efforts, such as the OECD-led Based Erosion and Profit Sharing project (BEPS), are designed to ensure that corporate entities are taxed on a larger percentage of their earnings. Although some countries have passed tax laws based on findings from the BEPS project, the final nature, timing and extent of any such tax reforms. 13. Table of Contents. or other legislative or regulatory actions is unpredictable, and it is difficult to assess their overall effect. But, these changes could increase our effective tax rate and adversely impact our financial results.. We are also subject to ongoing audits of our income tax returns in various jurisdictions both in the U.S. and internationally. While we believe that our tax positions will be sustained, the outcomes of such audits could result in the assessment of additional taxes, which could adversely impact our cash flows and financial results.. Foreign Currency. Our revenue and operating income are subject to variability due to the effects of foreign currency fluctuations against the U.S. Dollar. Overall, we have exposure to approximately 50 functional currencies. We pay the majority of expenses attributable to our foreign operations in the functional currency of the country in which such operations are conducted, and in 2017 a significant portion of our revenue was generated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. As a result, significant currency fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations, including sales and gross margins. For example, an increase in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to foreign currencies could result in lower revenue and increased losses from currency exchange rates. We endeavor to mitigate some of the effects of currency fluctuations with our hedging strategies; however, the volatility of foreign currency exchange rates is dependent on many factors that cannot be forecasted with reliable accuracy and our derivative instruments may not prove effective in reducing our exposures.. Cost/Expense Reductions. Our success in achieving targeted cost and expense reductions through formal restructuring programs, our continuous improvement programs, our performance improvement programs and other similar programs depends on a number of factors, including our ability to achieve infrastructure rationalizations, drive lower component and product development costs, improve supply chain efficiencies, utilize next-generation technologies, simplify and rationalize product portfolios, and optimize the efficiency of our customer services and professional services consulting resources. If we do not successfully execute on these initiatives or if we experience delays in completing the implementation of these initiatives, our results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected.. Manufacturing.  At December 31, 2017, we manufactured our ATMs in facilities located in Columbus, Georgia, USA; Manaus, Brazil; Budapest, Hungary; Beijing, China; and Chengalpattu, India. Our self-checkout solutions are manufactured in facilities located in Columbus, Georgia, USA and Budapest, Hungary. Our financial kiosk solutions are manufactured in facilities located in Beijing, China; Budapest, Hungary; Manaus, Brazil; and Chengalpattu, India. Our POS/Display terminals are manufactured in facilities located in Columbus, Georgia, USA; and Budapest, Hungary, and certain hand-held solutions are manufactured in Salzburg, Austria. NCR outsources the manufacturing in all geographic regions of its payment solutions, some POS terminals, printers, bar code scanners and various other kiosks. If we develop or experience problems relating to product quality or on-time delivery to customers that we are unable to quickly manage and resolve, whether due to the geographical diversity of our manufacturing base or otherwise, we could experience business interruption that could negatively impact our business and operating results.. Contractual Obligations for Professional Services. Our contracts for professional services consulting work may contemplate that services will be performed over multiple periods, especially in connection with large solution roll-outs. Our profitability under those contracts is largely a function of performing our contractual obligations within the estimated costs and time periods specified. If we exceed these estimated costs or cannot otherwise complete the contracted services within the specified periods, our profitability related to these contracts could be negatively impacted. In addition, if we are unable to maintain appropriate utilization rates for our consultants, we may not be able to sustain profitability on these contracts.. Acquisitions, Divestitures and Alliances. As we selectively acquire and divest technologies, products and businesses and we begin to include or exclude, as the case may be, the financial results related to these transactions, our operating results could fluctuate materially, depending on the size, nature, structure and timing of the transactions.. Underfunded Pension Obligation. At December 31, 2017, our obligation for benefits under our pension plans was $3,223 million and our pension plan assets totaled $2,530 million, which resulted in an underfunded pension obligation of $693 million. While we rebalanced our U.S. and international plan assets in order to reduce volatility and made several discretionary contributions to our pension plans, our remaining underfunded pension obligation continues to require ongoing cash contributions. Our underfunded pension obligation also may be affected by future transfers and settlements relating to our international pension plans. For example, in 2015 we completed the transfer of our U.K. London pension plan to an insurer. The pension plan was overfunded, and the transfer resulted in a settlement loss of $427 million in the second quarter of 2015, and an offsetting decrease to prepaid pension costs in our consolidated balance sheet.. In addition, certain of the plan assets remain subject to financial market risk, and our actuarial and other assumptions underlying our expected future benefit payments, long-term expected rate of return and future funding expectations for our plans depend on, among other things, interest rate levels and trends and capital market expectations. Further volatility in the performance of financial markets,. 14. Table of Contents. changes in any of these actuarial assumptions (including those described in our \"Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates\" section of the \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" included in Item 7 of Part II of this Report) or changes in regulations regarding funding requirements could require material increases to our expected cash contributions to our pension plans in future years.. See the \"Effects of Pension, Postemployment and Postretirement Benefit Plans\" and \"Financial Condition, Liquidity And Capital Resources\" sections of the \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" included in Item 7 of Part II of this Report and Note 8, \"Employee Benefit Plans\" in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Report for further information regarding the funded status of our pension plans and potential future cash contributions.. Stock-based Compensation. Similar to other companies, we use stock awards as a form of compensation for certain employees and non-employee directors. All stock-based awards are required to be recognized in our financial statements based on their fair values. The amount recognized for stock compensation expense could vary depending on a number of assumptions or changes that may occur. For example, assumptions such as the risk-free rate, expected holding period and expected volatility that drive our valuation model could change. Other examples that could have an impact include changes in the mix and type of awards, changes in our compensation plans, changes in our tax rate, changes in our forfeiture rate, differences in actual results compared to management's estimates for performance-based awards or an unusually high amount of expirations of stock awards.. Changes in Accounting Principles. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to create and interpret appropriate accounting principles and guidance. Changes in accounting principles may have an adverse effect on our financial results, as well as our processes and related controls, and may retroactively affect previously reported results. For additional information regarding updated accounting principles and standards, including the new revenue recognition standard, see Item 7 of Part II of this Report and Note 1, \"Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies\" in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Report.. Activist Stockholders. While we seek to actively engage with stockholders and consider their views on business and strategy, we could be subject to actions or proposals from stockholders or others that do not align with our business strategies or the interests of our other stockholders. Responding to these stockholders could be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our business and operations, and divert the attention of our Board of Directors and senior management. Uncertainties associated with such activities could interfere with our ability to effectively execute our strategic plan, impact customer retention and long-term growth, and limit our ability to hire and retain personnel. In addition, actions of these stockholders may cause periods of fluctuation in our stock price based on temporary or speculative market perceptions or other factors that do not necessarily reflect the underlying fundamentals and prospects of our business.. Series A Convertible Preferred Stock.  The issuance of shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock reduces the relative voting power of holders of our common stock, and the conversion and sale of those shares would dilute the ownership of such holders and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2017, 0.8 million shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock were outstanding, representing approximately 18% of our outstanding common stock, including the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock on an as-converted basis. Holders of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock are entitled to a cumulative dividend at the rate of 5.5% per annum, payable quarterly in arrears. The dividends are to be paid in-kind, through the issuance of additional shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, for the first sixteen dividend payment dates, and thereafter in cash or in-kind at our option. If we fail to timely declare and pay a dividend, the dividend rate will increase to 8.0% per annum until such time as all accrued but unpaid dividends have been paid in full.. As holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock are entitled to vote, on an as-converted basis, together with holders of our common stock on all matters submitted to a vote of the holders of our common stock, the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, and the subsequent issuance of additional shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock through the payment of in-kind dividends, effectively reduces the relative voting power of the holders of our common stock.. In addition, the conversion of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock to common stock would dilute the ownership interest of existing holders of our common stock, and any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock would increase the number of shares of our common stock available for public trading, and could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. Under a customary registration rights agreement, in March 2016 we registered for resale the shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, and the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, and in March 2017, entities affiliated with The Blackstone Group L.P. (which we refer to as the Blackstone Purchasers) offered for sale 342,000 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock in an underwritten public offering. Further sales by Blackstone of shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, or common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series A. 15. Table of Contents. Convertible Preferred Stock, in the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock.. The Blackstone Purchasers and the other holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock may exercise influence over us. As of December 31, 2017, the outstanding shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock represented approximately 18% of our outstanding common stock, including the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock on an as-converted basis. The terms of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock require the approval of a majority of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock by a separate class vote for us to:. • amend our organizational documents in a manner that would have an adverse effect on the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock; or. • issue securities that are senior to, or equal in priority with, the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock.. In addition, our November 2015 Investment Agreement with Blackstone (the Investment Agreement), and the terms of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, grant the Blackstone Purchasers certain rights to designate directors to serve on our Board, which directors are elected by a separate class vote of the holders of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. For so long as the Blackstone Purchasers beneficially own shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (and/or shares of common stock issued upon conversion of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock) that represent, on an as-converted basis, at least 50% of the Blackstone Purchasers' initial shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock on an as-converted basis, the Blackstone Purchasers have the right to designate two directors for election to our Board. For so long as the Blackstone Purchasers beneficially own shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (and/or shares of common stock issued upon conversion of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock) that represent, on an as-converted basis, at least 25% but less than 50% of Blackstone's initial shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock on an as-converted basis, the Blackstone Purchasers will have the right to designate one director for election to our Board.. The directors designated by the Blackstone Purchasers also are entitled to serve on committees of our Board, subject to applicable law and stock exchange rules. Notwithstanding the fact that all directors will be subject to fiduciary duties to us and to applicable law, the interests of the directors designated by the Blackstone Purchasers and elected by the holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock may differ from the interests of our security holders as a whole or of our other directors.. The Investment Agreement also imposes a number of affirmative and negative covenants on us, and gives the Blackstone Purchasers a consent right with respect to certain actions taken by us, including:. • entering into material transactions with related parties, or repurchasing or redeeming shares of common stock from related parties, subject to certain exceptions; and. • increasing or decreasing the maximum number of directors on our Board to more than eleven persons or to such number as would require the resignation of one of the directors nominated by Blackstone.. As a result, the holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, and in particular, the Blackstone Purchasers, have the ability to influence the outcome of any matter submitted for the vote of the holders of our common stock. Blackstone and its affiliates are in the business of making or advising on investments in companies, including businesses that may directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business, and they may have interests that diverge from, or even conflict with, those of our other stockholders. They may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us.. Our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock has rights, preferences and privileges that are not held by, and are preferential to, the rights of our common stockholders, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and may result in the interests of the holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, including the Blackstone Purchasers, differing from those of our common stockholders. The holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock have the right to receive a liquidation preference entitling them to be paid out of our assets available for distribution to stockholders before any payment may be made to holders of any other class or series of capital stock, an amount equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the liquidation preference thereof plus all accrued dividends or (b) the amount that such holder would have been entitled to receive upon our liquidation, dissolution and winding up if all outstanding shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock had been converted into common stock immediately prior to such liquidation, dissolution or winding up.. In addition, dividends on the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock accrue and are cumulative at the rate of 5.5% per annum, payable quarterly in arrears. If we fail to timely declare and pay a dividend, the dividend rate will increase to 8.0% per annum until such time. 16. Table of Contents. as all accrued but unpaid dividends have been paid in full. The dividends are to be paid in kind, through the issuance of additional shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, for the first sixteen dividend payment dates, and thereafter in cash or in-kind at our option.. The holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock also have certain redemption rights or put rights, including the right to require us to repurchase all or any portion of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock on any date during the three months commencing on and immediately following March 16, 2024 and the three months commencing on and immediately following every third anniversary of such date, at 100% of the liquidation preference thereof plus all accrued but unpaid dividends, and the right, subject to certain exceptions, to require us to repurchase all or any portion of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock upon certain change of control events at the greater of (a) 100% of the liquidation preference thereof plus all accrued but unpaid dividends and (b) the consideration the holders would have received if they had converted their shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock into common stock immediately prior to the change of control event.. These dividend and share repurchase obligations could impact our liquidity and reduce the amount of cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, growth opportunities, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes. Our obligations to the holders of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock could also limit our ability to obtain additional financing or increase our borrowing costs, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. The preferential rights could also result in divergent interests between the holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and holders of our common stock.. Multinational Operations. Our multinational operations, including in new and emerging markets, expose us to business and legal risks. For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, the percentage of our revenue from outside of the United States was 50% and 53%, respectively, and we expect our percentage of revenue generated outside the United States to continue to be significant. In addition, we continue to seek to further penetrate existing international markets, and to identify opportunities to enter into or expand our presence in developing and emerging markets. While we believe that our geographic diversity may help to mitigate some risks associated with geographic concentrations of operations, our ability to manufacture and sell our solutions internationally, including in new and emerging markets, is subject to risks, which include, among others:. • the impact of ongoing and future economic and credit conditions on the stability of national and regional economies and industries within those economies;. • political conditions and local regulations that could adversely affect demand for our solutions, our ability to access funds and resources, or our ability to sell products in these markets;. • the impact of a downturn in the global economy, or in regional economies, on demand for our products;. • currency exchange rate fluctuations that could result in lower demand for our products as well as generate currency translation losses;. • limited availability of local currencies to pay vendors, employees and third parties and to distribute funds outside of the country;. • changes to global or regional trade agreements that could limit our ability to sell products in these markets;. • the imposition of import or export tariffs, taxes, trade policies or import and export controls that could increase the expense of, or limit demand for our products;. • changes to and compliance with a variety of laws and regulations that may increase our cost of doing business or otherwise prevent us from effectively competing internationally;. • government uncertainty or limitations on the ability to enforce legal rights and remedies, including as a result of new, or changes to, laws and regulations;. • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in certain countries;. • implementing and managing systems, procedures and controls to monitor our operations in foreign markets;. • changing competitive requirements and deliverables in developing and emerging markets;. • longer collection cycles and the financial viability and reliability of contracting partners and customers;. • managing a geographically dispersed workforce, work stoppages and other labor conditions or issues;. • disruptions in transportation and shipping infrastructure; and. • the impact of civil unrest relating to war and terrorist activity on the economy or markets in general, or on our ability, or that of our suppliers, to meet commitments.. In addition, as a result of our revenue generated outside of the United States, the amount of cash and cash equivalents that is held by our foreign subsidiaries continues to be significant. U.S. Tax Reform includes a one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax. 17. Table of Contents. (\"repatriation tax\") on accumulated earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. Also, under U.S. Tax Reform, the future earnings accumulated after December 31, 2017 held by our foreign subsidiaries will be currently taxed in the U.S., and as such, distributions of earnings to the U.S. no longer generates additional negative U.S. income tax consequences.  However, any distributions of earnings from foreign subsidiaries may be subject to foreign withholding taxes, which would reduce the amount of cash and cash equivalents that are available for our use.. Environmental. Our historical and ongoing manufacturing activities subject us to environmental exposures. Our facilities and operations are subject to a wide range of environmental protection laws, and we have investigatory and remedial activities underway at a number of facilities that we currently own or operate, or formerly owned or operated, to comply, or to determine compliance, with such laws. In addition, our products are subject to environmental laws in a number of jurisdictions. Given the uncertainties inherent in such activities, there can be no assurances that the costs required to comply with applicable environmental laws will not impact future operating results. We have also been identified as a potentially responsible party in connection with certain environmental matters, including the Fox River and Kalamazoo River matters, as further described in Note 9, \"Commitments and Contingencies\" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Report; in \"Environmental Matters\" within Item 1 of Part I of this Report; and in \"Environmental and Legal Contingencies\" within the \"Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates\" section of \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" included in Item 7 of Part II of this Report, and we incorporate such disclosures by reference and make them a part of this discussion of risk factors.. Acquisitions, Divestitures and Alliances. If we do not successfully integrate acquisitions or effectively manage alliance activities, we may not drive future growth. As part of our overall solutions strategy, we have made, and intend to continue to make, investments in companies, products, services and technologies, either through acquisitions, investments, joint ventures or strategic alliances. Acquisitions and alliance activities inherently involve risks. The risks we may encounter include those associated with:. • assimilating and integrating different business operations, corporate cultures, personnel, infrastructures (such as data centers) and technologies or products acquired or licensed;. • the potential for unknown liabilities within the acquired or combined business; and. • the possibility of conflict with joint venture or alliance partners regarding strategic direction, prioritization of objectives and goals, governance matters or operations.. Further, we may make acquisitions and investments in order to acquire or obtain access to new technology or products that expand our offerings. There is risk that the new technology or products may not perform as anticipated and may not meet estimated growth projections or expectations, or investment recipients may not successfully execute their business plans.  There is also risk that key employees of an acquired business may not remain with us as long as expected. In the event that these risks materialize, we may not be able to fully realize the benefit of our investments, and our operating results could be adversely affected. An acquisition or alliance, and the integration of an acquired business, may also disrupt our ongoing business or we may not be able to successfully incorporate acquired products, services or technologies into our solutions and maintain quality. Further, we may not achieve the projected synergies once we have integrated the business into our operations, which may lead to additional costs not anticipated at the time of acquisition.. Circumstances associated with divestitures could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In May 2016, we completed the sale of most of the assets of our Interactive Printer Solutions (IPS) business to Atlas Holdings, LLC, and in June 2012 we completed the divestiture of our entertainment business to Redbox Automated Retail, LLC. We continue to evaluate the strategic fit of our other businesses and products and may decide to sell a business or product based on such an evaluation. Despite a decision to divest a business or product, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or executing alternative exit strategies at acceptable prices and terms and in a timely manner. In addition, prospective buyers may have difficulty obtaining financing. Divestitures, including the divestiture of the IPS business, could involve additional risks, including:. • difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel;. • the need to provide significant ongoing post-closing transition support to a buyer;. • the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns;. • the retention of certain current or future liabilities in order to induce a buyer to complete a divestiture;. • the obligation to indemnify or reimburse a buyer for certain past liabilities of a divested business;. • the disruption of our business; and. • the potential loss of key employees.. 18. Table of Contents. We may not be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that we may encounter in divesting a business or product, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Intellectual Property. Our continuing ability to be a leading technology and services solutions provider could be negatively affected if we do not protect intellectual property that drives innovation. It is critical to our continued development of leading technologies that we are able to protect and enhance our proprietary rights in our intellectual property through patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws. These efforts include protection of the products and the application, diagnostic and other software we develop. To the extent we are not successful in protecting our proprietary rights, our business could be adversely impacted. Also, many of our offerings rely on technologies developed by others, and if we are unable to continue to obtain licenses for such technologies, our business could be adversely impacted. From time to time, we receive notices from third parties regarding patent and other intellectual property claims. Whether such claims have merit, they may require significant resources to defend. If an infringement claim is successful and we are required to pay damages, or we are unable to license the infringed technology or to substitute similar non-infringing technology, our business could be adversely affected.. Work Environment.  Continuous improvement, customer experience, restructuring and cost reduction initiatives could negatively impact productivity and business results. In the past, we have undertaken restructuring plans, and, in addition, as part of our ongoing efforts to optimize our cost structure, from time to time, we shift and realign our internal organizational structure and resources. These activities could temporarily result in reduced productivity levels. If we are not able to timely execute on these initiatives, or if the costs to complete these initiatives is higher than anticipated, our results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition to these initiatives, we have initiatives to grow and expand our software business, streamline our services business, enable our sales force to better sell our solutions, invest in our software and cloud solutions and improve the experience of our customers. We typically have many such initiatives underway. If we are not successful in implementing and managing these various initiatives and minimizing any resulting loss in productivity, we may not be able to achieve targeted cost savings or productivity gains, and our business and operating results could be negatively impacted.. On January 8, 2018, we opened our new world headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia, and are in the process of relocating our headquarters operations to this facility. From time to time we may undertake similar projects with respect to our office, manufacturing or other facilities. Implementation of relocation plans such as these could result in business disruption due to a lack of business continuity, which, among other things, could have a negative impact on our productivity and business and operating results.. If we do not retain key employees, or attract quality new and replacement employees, we may not be able to meet our business objectives. Our employees are vital to our success, including the successful transformation of the Company into a software and solutions driven business. Therefore, our ability to retain our key business leaders and our highly skilled software development, technical, sales, consulting and other key personnel, including key personnel of acquired businesses, is critical. These key employees may decide to leave NCR for other opportunities, or  may be unavailable for health or other reasons. In addition, as our business model evolves, we may need to attract employees with different skill sets, experience and attributes to support that evolution. If we are unable to retain our key personnel, or we are unable to attract highly qualified new and replacement employees by offering competitive compensation, secure work environments and leadership opportunities now and in the future, our business and operating results could be negatively impacted.. Our ability to effectively manage our business could be negatively impacted if we do not invest in and maintain reliable technology infrastructure and information systems. It is periodically necessary to add to, replace, upgrade or modify our technology infrastructure and internal information systems. If we are unable to expand, replace, upgrade or modify such systems in a timely and cost-effective manner, especially in light of demands on our information technology resources, our ability to capture and process financial transactions and, therefore, our financial condition, results of operations, or ability to comply with legal and regulatory reporting obligations, may be negatively impacted.. Reliance on Third Parties. If third party suppliers upon which we rely are not able to fulfill our needs, our ability to bring our products to market in a timely fashion could be affected. In most cases, there are a number of vendors providing the services and producing the parts and components that we utilize in or in connection with our products. However, there are some services and components that are licensed or purchased from single sources due to price, quality, technology, functionality or other reasons. For example, we depend on transaction processing services from Accenture, computer chips and microprocessors from Intel and operating systems from Microsoft. Certain parts and components used in the manufacturing of our ATMs and the delivery of many of our retail solutions are also supplied by single sources. In addition, there are a number of key suppliers for our businesses that provide us with critical products for our solutions. If we were unable to secure the necessary services, including contract manufacturing, parts, software, components or products from a particular vendor, and we had to find an alternative supplier, our new and existing product shipments and solution deliveries, or the provision of contracted services, could be delayed, impacting our business and operating results.. 19. Table of Contents. We have, from time to time, formed alliances with third parties that have complementary products, software, services and skills. These alliances represent many different types of relationships, such as outsourcing arrangements to manufacture hardware and subcontract agreements with third parties to perform services and provide products and software to our customers in connection with our solutions. For example, we rely on third parties for cash replenishment services for our ATM products. These alliances introduce risks that we cannot control, such as nonperformance by third parties and difficulties with or delays in integrating elements provided by third parties into our solutions. Lack of information technology infrastructure, shortages in business capitalization, and manual processes and data integrity issues of smaller suppliers can also create product time delays, inventory and invoicing problems, staging delays, as well as other operating issues. The failure of third parties to provide high-quality products or services that conform to required specifications or contractual arrangements could impair the delivery of our solutions on a timely basis, create exposure for non-compliance with our contractual commitments to our customers and impact our business and operating results. Also, some of these third parties have access to confidential NCR and customer data, the integrity and security of which are of significant importance to the Company.. Internal Controls. If we do not maintain effective internal controls, accounting policies, practices, and information systems necessary to ensure reliable reporting of our results, our ability to comply with our legal obligations could be negatively affected. Our internal controls, accounting policies and practices, and internal information systems enable us to capture and process transactions in a timely and accurate manner in compliance with applicable accounting standards, laws and regulations, taxation requirements and federal securities laws and regulations. Our internal controls and policies are being closely monitored by management as we continue to implement a worldwide Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system. While we believe these controls, policies, practices and systems are adequate to ensure data integrity, unanticipated and unauthorized actions of employees or contractors (both domestic and international), temporary lapses in internal controls due to shortfalls in transition planning and oversight, or resource constraints, could lead to improprieties and undetected errors that could impact our financial condition, results of operations, or compliance with legal obligations. Moreover, while management has concluded that the Company's internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2017 (as set forth in \"Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting\" included in Item 9A of Part II of this Report), due to their inherent limitations, such controls may not prevent or detect misstatements in our reported financial statements. Such limitations include, among other things, the potential for human error or circumvention of controls. Further, the Company's internal control over financial reporting is subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of a failure to remediate control deficiencies, changes in conditions or a deterioration of the degree of compliance with established policies and procedures.. Contingencies. We face uncertainties with regard to regulations, lawsuits and other related matters. In the normal course of business, we are subject to proceedings, lawsuits, claims and other matters, including, for example, those that relate to the environment, health and safety, labor and employment, employee benefits, import/export compliance, intellectual property, data privacy and security, product liability, commercial disputes and regulatory compliance, among others. Because such matters are subject to many uncertainties, their outcomes are not predictable and we must make certain estimates and assumptions in our financial statements. While we believe that amounts provided in our Consolidated Financial Statements with respect to such matters are currently adequate in light of the probable and estimable liabilities, there can be no assurances that the amounts required to satisfy alleged liabilities from such matters will not impact future operating results. Additionally, we are subject to diverse and complex laws and regulations, including those relating to corporate governance, public disclosure and reporting, environmental safety and the discharge of materials into the environment, product safety, import and export compliance, data privacy and security, antitrust and competition, government contracting, anti-corruption, and labor and human resources, which are rapidly changing and subject to many possible changes in the future. Compliance with these laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements, and federal securities laws among others, may create a substantial burden on us, and substantially increase costs to our organization or could have an impact on our future operating results.. Additionally, doing business on a worldwide basis requires us and our subsidiaries to comply with the laws and regulations of the U.S. government and various international jurisdictions. For example, our international operations are subject to U.S. and foreign anti-corruption laws and regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), which generally prohibits U.S. companies or agents acting on behalf of such companies from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. Our international operations are also subject to economic sanction programs administered by the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). If we are not in compliance with such laws and regulations, we may be subject to criminal and civil penalties, which may cause harm to our reputation and to our brand and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See Note 9, \"Commitments and Contingencies\" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Report for information regarding our prior FCPA and OFAC investigations, which disclosures are incorporated by reference and made a part of this discussion of risk factors."
