[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Some of the risks described below relate principally to our business and the industry in which we operate, while others relate principally to our indebtedness. The remaining risks relate principally to the securities markets generally and ownership of our common stock.. Our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity could be materially affected by any of these risks, and, as a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. Our business will suffer if we are unable to effectively respond to decreased demand for some of our products due to conditions in the global economy or secular pressures in some markets.. We have experienced and may experience in the future decreased demand for some of our products due to slowing or negative global economic growth, uncertainty in credit markets, declining consumer and business confidence, fluctuating commodity prices, increased unemployment and other challenges affecting the global economy. Parts of our fine paper and packaging business are subject to electronic substitution and, for fine paper products in particular, are in secular decline. Our efforts to offset these declines with new fine paper and packaging products and growth in existing fine paper and office products categories are not certain to fully offset the market declines, and evaluation of scope our manufacturing footprint may be required in the future. In addition, our customers may experience deterioration of their businesses, cash flow shortages, and difficulty obtaining financing. If we are unable to implement business strategies to effectively respond to decreased demand for our products, our financial position, cash flows and results of operations would be adversely affected.. Changes in international geopolitical and macro economic conditions generally, and particularly in Germany, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Fluctuations in the prices of and the demand for products could result in smaller profit margins and lower sales volumes.. Our operating results and business prospects could be adversely affected by risks related to the countries outside the United States in which we have manufacturing facilities or sell our products, including Germany, the Eurozone and the U.K. Downturns in economic activity, adverse tax consequences, fluctuations in the value of local currency versus the U.S. dollar, or any change in social, political, macro economic or labor conditions in any of these countries or regions could negatively affect our financial results.. Historically, economic and market shifts, and fluctuations in capacity have created cyclical changes in prices, sales volume and margins for products in the paper, packaging and related industries. The length and magnitude of industry cycles have varied over time and by product, but generally reflect changes in macroeconomic conditions and levels of industry capacity. The overall levels of demand for many of our products reflect fluctuations in levels of end-user demand, which depend in large part on general macroeconomic conditions in North America and regional economic conditions in our markets (including Europe, Asia, and Central and South America), as well as foreign currency exchange rates. The foregoing factors could materially and adversely impact our sales, cash flows, profitability and results of operations.. The availability of and prices for raw materials, energy and transportation services will significantly impact our business.. We purchase a substantial portion of the raw materials, energy, transportation and distribution services (primarily over-the-road freight) and other inputs necessary to produce our products on the open market, and, as a result, the price and other terms of those purchases are subject to change based on factors such as worldwide supply and demand and government regulation. We do not have significant influence over our raw material, energy or transportation prices and our ability to. 12. pass increases in those prices along to purchasers of our products may be challenged, unless those increases coincide with increased demand for the product. Therefore, raw material, energy, transportation and other input prices could increase at the same time that prices for our products are steady or decreasing. In addition, we may not be able to recoup other cost increases we may experience, such as those resulting from inflation or from increases in wages or salaries, health care, pension or other employee benefits costs, insurance costs and other costs.. Our technical products business acquires certain of its specialized pulp requirements from two global suppliers and certain critical specialty latex grades from a limited number of suppliers. In general, these supply arrangements are covered by formal contracts and represent multi-year business relationships that have historically been sufficient to meet our needs. We expect these relationships to continue to operate in a satisfactory manner in the future. In the event of an interruption of production at any one supplier, we believe that each of these suppliers individually would be able to satisfy our short-term requirements for specialized pulp or specialty latex. In the event of a long-term disruption in our supply of specialized pulp or specialty latex, we believe we would be able to substitute other pulp grades or other latex grades that would allow us to meet required product performance characteristics and incur only a limited disruption in our production.. Our fine paper and packaging business acquires a substantial majority of the cotton fiber used in the production of certain branded bond paper products pursuant to annual agreements with two North American producers. The balance of our cotton fiber requirements are acquired through \"spot market\" purchases from a variety of other producers. We believe that a partial or total disruption in the production of cotton fibers at our two primary suppliers would increase our reliance on \"spot market\" purchases with a likely corresponding increase in cost.. Our operating results are likely to fluctuate.. Our operating results are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Operating results could be adversely affected by general economic conditions causing a downturn in the market for paper products. Additional factors that could affect our results include, among others, changes in the market price of pulp, other raw materials and distribution/transportation services, the effects of competitive pricing pressures, production capacity levels and manufacturing yields, availability and cost of products from our suppliers, the gain or loss of significant customers, our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and technologies on a timely basis, changes in the mix of products produced and sold, seasonal customer demand, the relative strength of the Euro versus the U.S. dollar, increasing interest rates and environmental costs. The timing and effect of the foregoing factors are difficult to predict, and these or other factors could materially adversely affect our quarterly or annual operating results.. We face many competitors, several of which have greater financial and other resources.. We face competition in each of our business segments from companies that produce the same type of products that we produce or that produce lower priced alternative products that customers may use instead of our products. Some of our competitors have greater financial, sales and marketing, or research and development resources than we do. Greater financial resources and product development capabilities may also allow our competitors to respond more quickly to new opportunities or changes in customer requirements.. Our businesses are significantly dependent on sales to their largest customers.. Sales to the two largest customers of the fine paper and packaging business each represented approximately 15 percent of total sales for the segment in 2017. Sales to the three largest customers of the technical products business combined represented approximately 15 percent of total sales for the segment in 2017. A significant loss of business from any of our major fine paper and packaging or technical products customers may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We are also subject to credit risk associated with our customer concentration. If one or more of our largest fine paper and packaging or technical products customers were to become bankrupt, insolvent or otherwise were unable to pay for services provided, we may incur significant write-offs of accounts receivable.. We cannot be certain that our tax planning strategies will be effective and that our research and development tax credits will continue to be available to offset our tax liability.. We are continuously undergoing examination by the Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") as well as taxing authorities in various state and foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. The IRS and other taxing authorities routinely challenge certain deductions and credits reported on our income tax returns.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $15.5 million of U.S. federal and $6.9 million of U.S. state research and development tax credits (\"R&D Credits\") which, if not used, will expire between 2030 and 2037 for the U.S. federal R&D Credits and. 13. between 2020 and 2032 for the state R&D Credits. The availability of state NOLs and state credits to offset taxable income and income tax, respectively, could also be substantially reduced if we were to undergo an \"ownership change\" as defined within certain state tax codes.. In accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (\"ASC\") Topic 740, Income Taxes (\"ASC Topic 740\"), as of December 31, 2017, we have recorded a liability of $10.0 million for uncertain tax positions where we believe it is \"more likely than not\" that the benefit reported on our income tax return will not be realized. There can be no assurance, however, that the actual amount of unrealized deductions will not exceed the amounts we have recognized for uncertain tax positions.. Federal income tax reform could have unforeseen effects on our financial condition and results of operations.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act , hereafter referred to as the \"Tax Act\". The Company is in the process of determining the impact to the financial statements of all aspects of the Tax Act and will reflect the impact of such reform in the financial statements during the period in which such amounts can be reasonably estimated. The Tax Act significantly changes how the U.S. taxes corporations. The Tax Act requires complex computations to be performed that were not previously required in U.S. tax law, significant judgments to be made in interpretation of the provisions of the Tax Act and significant estimates in calculations, and the preparation and analysis of information not previously relevant or regularly produced. The U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies could interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the Tax Act will be applied or otherwise administered that is different from our interpretation. As we complete our analysis of the Tax Act, collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret any additional guidance, we may make adjustments to provisional amounts that we have recorded that may materially impact our provision for income taxes in the period in which the adjustments are made.. We have significant obligations for pension and other postretirement benefits.. We have significant obligations for pension and other postretirement benefits which could require future funding beyond that which we have funded in the past or which we currently anticipate. At December 31, 2017, our projected pension benefit obligations were $463.9 million and exceeded the fair value of pension plan assets by $63.5 million. In 2017, we made total contributions to qualified pension trusts of $14.3 million. In addition, during 2017 we paid pension benefits for unfunded qualified and supplemental retirement plans of $2.6 million. At December 31, 2017, our projected other postretirement benefit obligations were $44.0 million. No assets have been set aside to satisfy our other postretirement benefit obligations. In 2017, we made payments for postretirement benefits other than pensions of $3.8 million. A material increase in funding requirements or benefit payments could have a material effect on our cash flows.. We may be required to pay material amounts under multiemployer pension plans.. We contribute to the PACE Industry Union-Management Pension Fund (the \"PIUMPF\"), a multiemployer pension plan. The amount of our annual contributions to the PIUMPF is negotiated with the plan and the bargaining unit representing our employees covered by the plan. In 2017, we contributed approximately $0.1 million to the PIUMPF. In addition, in the event of a partial or complete withdrawal by us from the PIUMPF at a time when the plan is underfunded, we would be liable for a proportionate share of such plan's unfunded vested benefits, referred to as a withdrawal liability. In the event that any other contributing employer withdrew from the PIUMPF at a time when the plan is underfunded, and such employer cannot satisfy its obligations to the plan at the time of withdrawal, then the proportionate share of the plan's unfunded vested benefits that would be allocable to us and to the other remaining contributing employers, would increase and there could be an increase to our required annual contributions. In future negotiations of collective bargaining agreements with the labor union that participates in the PIUMPF, we may decide to discontinue participation in the plan and we could incur additional costs associated with no longer participating in the plan.. The PIUMPF was certified to be in \"critical status\" for the plan year beginning January 1, 2010, and continued to be in critical status for the plan year beginning January 1, 2017. In 2013, two large employers withdrew from the PIUMPF. Further withdrawals by other contributing employers could cause a \"mass withdrawal\" from, or effectively a termination of, the PIUMPF or alternatively we could elect to withdraw. Although we have no current intention to withdraw from the PIUMPF, if we were to withdraw, either completely or partially, we would incur a withdrawal liability based on our share of the PIUMPF's unfunded vested benefits. Based on information as of December 31, 2016 provided by the PIUMPF and reviewed by our actuarial consultant, we estimate that, as of December 31, 2017, the payments that we would be required to make to PIUMPF in the event of our complete withdrawal would be approximately $0.1 million per year on a pre-tax basis. These payments would continue for 20 years, unless we were deemed to be included in a \"mass withdrawal\" from. 14. the PIUMPF, in which case these payments would continue in perpetuity. However, we are not able to determine the exact amount of our withdrawal liability because the amount could be higher or lower depending on the nature and timing of any triggering event, the funded status of the plan and our level of contributions to the plan prior to the triggering event. These withdrawal liability payments would be in addition to pension contributions to any new pension plan adopted or contributed to by us to replace the PIUMPF and could have a material effect on our cash flows. Adverse changes to pension laws and regulations could increase the likelihood and amount of our liabilities arising under the PIUMPF.. The outcome of legal actions and claims may adversely affect us.. We are involved in legal actions and claims arising in the ordinary course of our business. The outcome of such legal actions and claims against us cannot be predicted with certainty. Legal actions and claims against us could have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. Labor interruptions would adversely affect our business.. Except for our Pittsfield, Massachusetts, Brownville, New York and Quakertown, Pennsylvania manufacturing facilities which are non-union, substantially all of our hourly employees are unionized. In addition, some key customers and suppliers are also unionized. Strikes, lockouts or other work stoppages or slowdowns involving our unionized employees, and/or those of our suppliers and customers, could have a material effect on us.. If we are unable to continue to implement our business strategies, our financial conditions and operating results could be materially affected.. Our future operating results will depend, in part, on the extent to which we can successfully implement our business strategies, including expansion and growth of our technical products (filtration and performance materials) and packaging businesses in a cost effective manner. Additionally, a slower than anticipated loading of our new filtration asset in Appleton, Wisconsin could cause our results to be lower than expected in the future. Our strategies are subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to successfully implement our business strategies, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected.. We may not successfully integrate acquisitions and may be unable to achieve anticipated cost savings or other synergies.. The integration of the operations of acquired companies involves a number of risks and presents financial, managerial, legal and operational challenges. We may have difficulty, and may incur unanticipated expenses related to, integrating information systems, financial reporting activities, and integrating and retaining management and personnel from acquired companies. We may not be able to achieve anticipated cost savings or commercial or growth synergies, for a number of reasons, including contractual constraints and obligations or an inability to take advantage of expected commercial opportunities, increased operating efficiencies or commercial expansion of key technologies. Failure to successfully integrate acquired companies may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, which could harm our future success and competitive position.. Our future success and competitive position also depends, in part, upon our ability to obtain and maintain protection for our intellectual property and proprietary rights. Failure to protect our existing intellectual property rights may result in the loss of valuable technologies or may require us to license other companies' intellectual property rights. It is possible that any of our patents may be invalidated, rendered unenforceable, circumvented, challenged or licensed to others or any of our pending or future patent applications may not be issued within the scope of the claims sought by us, if at all. Further, others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technologies, duplicate our technologies or design around our patents, and steps taken by us to protect our technologies may not prevent misappropriation of such technologies.. Future dividends on our common stock may be restricted or eliminated.. Dividends are declared at the discretion of our Board of Directors, and future dividends will depend on our future earnings, cash flow, financial requirements and other factors. Our ability to pay cash dividends on our common stock is limited under the terms of both our bank credit agreement and the indenture for our $175 million of senior notes due November 2021 (the \"2021 Senior Notes\"). As of December 31, 2017, under the most restrictive terms of our bank credit agreement and the. 15. indenture for the 2021 Senior Notes, our ability to pay cash dividends on our common stock is limited, as described under \"Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness.\" There can be no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends in the future.. We may be required to record a charge to our earnings if our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired.. As of December 31, 2017, we had goodwill of $85.3 million and other intangible assets of $78.7 million. Goodwill and other intangible assets are recorded at fair value on the date of acquisition. In accordance with applicable accounting guidance, we review goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets at least annually for impairment, and long-lived intangible assets when facts and circumstances warrant an impairment review. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in performance, adverse market conditions, acceleration of the secular decline in fine paper and office products or a lack of success in our efforts to offset these declines with new fine paper and packaging products, which could lead to a reduction in the size of our manufacturing footprint, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, and a variety of other factors. The amount of any non-cash impairment would be recognized immediately through our consolidated statement of operations. Any future goodwill or other intangible asset impairment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.. If we have a catastrophic loss or unforeseen or recurring operational problems at any of our facilities, we could suffer significant lost production and/or cost increases.. Our technical products and fine paper and packaging businesses may suffer catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, terrorism, mechanical failure, or other natural or man-made events. If any of our facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production, delay or reduce shipments, reduce revenue, and result in significant expenses to repair or replace the facility. These expenses and losses may not be adequately covered by property or business interruption insurance. Even if covered by insurance, our inability to deliver our products to customers, even on a short-term basis, may cause us to lose market share on a more permanent basis.. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results.. Exchange rate fluctuations for the Euro do not have a material effect on the operations or cash flows of our German and Dutch technical products businesses. Our German and Dutch technical products business incurs most of its costs and sells most of its production in Europe and, therefore, its operations and cash flows are not materially affected by changes in the exchange rate of the Euro relative to the U.S. dollar. Changes in the Euro exchange rate relative to the U.S. dollar will, however, have an effect on our balance sheet and reported results of operations. See Item 7A, \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  -  Foreign Currency Risk.\". In addition, because we transact business in other foreign countries, some of our revenues and expenses are denominated in a currency other than the local currency of our operations. As a result, changes in exchange rates between the currency in which the transaction is denominated and the local currency of our operations into which the transaction is being recorded can impact the amount of local currency recorded for such transaction. This can result in more or less local currency revenues or costs related to such transaction, and thus have an effect on our reported sales and income before income taxes.. Our activities are subject to extensive government regulation, which could increase our costs, cause us to incur liabilities and adversely affect the manufacturing and marketing of our products.. Our operations are subject to federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances in the United States, Germany, the Netherlands and elsewhere in the world relating to various environmental, health and safety matters. The nature of our operations requires that we invest capital and incur operating costs to comply with those laws, regulations and ordinances and exposes us to the risk of claims concerning non-compliance with environmental, health and safety laws or standards. We cannot assure that significant additional expenditures will not be required to maintain compliance with, or satisfy potential claims arising from, such laws, regulations and ordinances. Future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations or contamination of sites owned, operated or used for waste disposal by us (including currently unknown contamination and contamination caused by prior owners and operators of such sites or other waste generators) may give rise to additional costs that could require significantly higher capital expenditures and operating costs, which would reduce the funds otherwise available for operations, capital expenditures, future business opportunities or other purposes.. Additionally, in the U.S., portions of the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (\"MAP-21\", primarily, the electronic logging device (ELD) rules under MAP-21) have created a decrease in levels of capacity in the over-the-road freight sector which could have an adverse impact on our business. The current operating environment in the over-the-road freight and transportation sector resulting from fluctuating fuel costs, industry-specific regulations (such as hours-of-service and ELD rules), a shortage of qualified drivers, and other economic factors are causing a tightening of capacity and. 16. an increase in prices charged to shippers, such as us, in the over-the-road transportation and distribution sector generally, and in our carrier networks specifically, which could have an adverse impact on our business.. We are subject to risks associated with possible climate change legislation and various cost and manufacturing issues associated with such legislation.. GHG emissions have increasingly become the subject of political and regulatory focus. Concern over potential climate change, including global warming, has led to legislative and regulatory initiatives directed at limiting GHG emissions. In addition to certain federal proposals in the United States to regulate GHG emissions, Germany, the U.K. and all the states in which we operate are currently considering GHG legislation or regulations, either individually and/or as part of regional initiatives. While not all are likely to become law it is reasonably possible that additional climate change related mandates will be forthcoming, and it is expected that they may adversely impact our costs by increasing energy costs and raw material prices, requiring operational or equipment modifications to reduce emissions and creating costs to comply with regulations or to mitigate the financial consequences of compliance.. We are subject to cybersecurity risks related to breaches of security pertaining to sensitive company, customer, employee and vendor information as well as breaches in the technology that manages operations and other business processes.. We use information technologies to securely manage operations and various business functions. We rely on various technologies to process, store and report on our business and interact with customers, vendors and employees. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security design and controls, and those of our third party providers, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to cyber attacks by hackers or breaches due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could result in operational disruptions or the misappropriation of sensitive data that could subject us to civil and criminal penalties, litigation or have a negative impact on our reputation. There can be no assurance that such disruptions or misappropriations and the resulting repercussions will not negatively impact our cash flows and materially affect our results of operations or financial condition. The U.S. Congress is considering cybersecurity legislation that, if enacted, could impose additional obligations on us and could expand our potential liability in the event of a cyber-security incident.. Additionally, we collect, process, store, use and transmit personal data for use in our business, most of which relates to our global employees. Personal data is increasingly subject to legal and regulatory protections around the world, which vary widely in approach and which possibly conflict with one another. As discussed above, in recent years, U.S. legislators and regulatory agencies, such as the Federal Trade Commission, as well as U.S. states, have increased their focus on protecting personal data by law and regulation, and have increased enforcement actions for violations of privacy and data protection requirements. The European Commission also recently approved and adopted the General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\") in the European Union, a new data protection law, which will apply beginning in May 2018. These data protection laws and regulations are intended to protect the privacy and security of personal data, including credit card information that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the relevant jurisdiction. Implementation of and compliance with these laws and regulations may be more costly or take longer than we anticipate, or could otherwise adversely affect our business operations, which could negatively impact our financial position or cash flows. Additionally, media coverage of data breaches has escalated, in part because of the increased number of enforcement actions, investigations and lawsuits. As this focus and attention on privacy and data protection increases, we also risk exposure to potential liabilities and costs resulting from the compliance with, or any failure to comply with applicable legal requirements, conflicts among these legal requirements or differences in approaches to privacy and security of travel data. Our business could be materially adversely affected by our inability, or the inability of our vendors who receive personal data from us, to comply with legal obligations regarding the use of personal data, new data handling requirements that conflict with or negatively impact our business practices.. Our business may suffer if we do not retain our senior management.. We depend on our senior management. The loss of services of members of our senior management team could adversely affect our business until suitable replacements can be found. There may be a limited number of persons with the requisite skills to serve in these positions and we may be unable to locate or employ qualified personnel on acceptable terms. In addition, our future success requires us to continue to attract and retain competent personnel.. 17. Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness. We may not be able to fund our future capital requirements internally or obtain third-party financing.. We may be required or choose to obtain additional debt or equity financing to meet our future working capital requirements, as well as to fund capital expenditures and acquisitions. To the extent we must obtain financing from external sources to fund our capital requirements, we cannot guarantee financing will be available on favorable terms, if at all. As of December 31, 2017, we have required debt payments of $1.4 million during the year ending December 31, 2018.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt obligations, including the 2021 Senior Notes.. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to the 2021 Senior Notes, our other debt and our other liabilities will depend on our financial and operating performance, which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations and other liabilities, we could face substantial liquidity problems and may be forced to reduce or delay scheduled expansions and capital expenditures, sell material assets or operations, obtain additional capital or restructure our debt. We cannot assure that our operating performance, cash flow and capital resources will be sufficient to repay our debt in the future. In the event that we are required to dispose of material assets or operations or restructure our debt to meet our debt and other obligations, we can make no assurances as to the terms of any such transaction or how quickly any such transaction could be completed.. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result:. • our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable;. • our senior secured lenders could terminate their commitments and commence foreclosure proceedings against our assets; and. • we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.. If our operating performance declines in the future or we breach our covenants under our revolving credit facility, we may need to obtain waivers from the lenders under our revolving credit facility to avoid being in default. We may not be able to obtain these waivers. If this occurs, we would be in default under our revolving credit facility.. We have significant indebtedness which subjects us to restrictive covenants relating to the operation of our business.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $175 million of 2021 Senior Notes, $76.9 million in revolving credit borrowings and $6.4 million of project financing outstanding. In addition, availability under our bank credit agreement was approximately $92 million. Our leverage could have important consequences. For example, it could:. • make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including making scheduled principal and interest payments on the 2021 Senior Notes and our other indebtedness;. • place us at a disadvantage to our competitors;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing funds available for other purposes;. • increase our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions or the industry in which we operate;. • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other purposes; and. • limit our ability to plan for and react to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate.. The terms of our indebtedness, including our bank credit agreement and the indenture governing the 2021 Senior Notes, contain covenants restricting our ability to, among other things, incur certain additional debt, incur or create certain liens, make specified restricted payments, pay dividends, authorize or issue capital stock, enter into transactions with our affiliates, consolidate or merge with or acquire another business, sell certain of our assets or liquidate, dissolve or wind-up our Company. Under the most restrictive terms of the Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, we are permitted to pay cash dividends on or repurchase shares of our common stock up to the amount available under the Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, as long as the availability under the Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement exceeds $25 million. If the availability is below $25 million, we are restricted from paying dividends or repurchasing shares. Under. 18. the most restrictive terms of the 2021 Senior Notes, we are permitted to pay cash dividends of up to $25 million in a calendar year, but not permitted to repurchase shares of our common stock. However, as long as the net leverage ratio (net debt/EBITDA) under the 2021 Senior Notes is below 2.5x, we can pay dividends or repurchase shares without limitation. Refer to Item 7A, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Liquidity and Capital Resources\" for the current limitations on our ability to pay dividends on or repurchase shares of our common stock.. In addition, if the aggregate availability under our revolving credit facilities is less than the greater of (i) $25 million and (ii) 12.5 percent of the maximum aggregate commitments under our revolving credit facilities as then in effect, we will be subject to increased reporting obligations and controls until such time as availability is more than the greater of (a) $35 million and (b) 17.5 percent of the maximum aggregate commitments under our revolving credit facilities as then in effect for at least 60 consecutive days and no default or event of default has occurred or is continuing during such 60-day period.. If aggregate availability under our revolving credit facilities is less than the greater of (i) $20 million and (ii) 10 percent of the maximum aggregate commitments under our revolving credit facilities as then in effect, we are required to comply with a fixed charge coverage ratio (as defined in our bank credit agreement) of not less than 1.1 to 1.0 for the preceding four-quarter period, tested as of the end of each quarter. Such compliance, once required, would no longer be necessary once (x) aggregate availability under our revolving credit facilities exceeds the greater of (i) 17.5 percent of the aggregate commitment for our revolving credit facilities and (ii) $35 million for 60 consecutive days and (y) no default or event of default has occurred and is continuing during such 60-day period. As of December 31, 2017, aggregate availability under our revolving credit facilities exceeded the minimum required amount, and we are not required to comply with such fixed charge coverage ratio.. Our revolving credit facilities accrue interest at variable rates. As of December 31, 2017, we had $76.9 million of revolving credit borrowings outstanding which mature on December 18, 2019. We may reduce our exposure to rising interest rates by entering into interest rate hedging arrangements, although those arrangements may result in us incurring higher interest expenses than we would incur without the arrangements. If interest rates increase in the absence of such arrangements, we will need to dedicate more of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our debt. For more information on our liquidity, see Item 7A, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Liquidity and Capital Resources.\". Our failure to comply with the covenants contained in our revolving credit facility or the indenture governing the 2021 Senior Notes could result in an event of default that could cause acceleration of our indebtedness.. Our failure to comply with the covenants and other requirements contained in the indenture governing the 2021 Senior Notes, our revolving credit facility or our other debt instruments could cause an event of default under the relevant debt instrument. The occurrence of an event of default could trigger a default under our other debt instruments, prohibit us from accessing additional borrowings and permit the holders of the defaulted debt to declare amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be immediately due and payable. Our assets or cash flows may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments, and we may be unable to refinance or restructure the payments on indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all.. Despite our indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more indebtedness, which may increase the risks created by our substantial indebtedness.. Because the terms of our bank credit agreement and the indenture governing the 2021 Senior Notes do not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from incurring additional indebtedness, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, some of which may be secured. If we or any of our subsidiaries incur additional indebtedness, the related risks that we and they face may intensify.. Our bank credit agreement is secured by a majority of our assets.. Our bank credit agreement is secured by a majority of our assets. Availability under our bank credit agreement will fluctuate over time depending on the value of our inventory, receivables and various capital assets. An extended work stoppage or decline in sales volumes would result in a decrease in the value of the assets securing the bank credit agreement. A reduction in availability under the bank credit agreement could have a material effect on our liquidity.. 19. Changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations could adversely affect our cost of financing and have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities.. Our debt currently has a non-investment grade rating, and there can be no assurance that any rating assigned by the rating agencies will remain for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in that rating agency's judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating, such as adverse changes, so warrant. A lowering or withdrawal of the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating agencies may increase our future borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on our subsidiaries to generate cash flow to meet our debt service obligations.. We conduct a substantial portion of our business through our subsidiaries. Consequently, our cash flow and ability to service our debt obligations depend upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and the distribution of those earnings to us, or upon loans, advances or other payments made by these entities to us. The ability of these entities to pay dividends or make other payments or advances to us will be subject to applicable laws and contractual restrictions contained in the instruments governing their debt, including our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the 2021 Senior Notes. These limitations are also subject to important exceptions and qualifications.. The ability of our subsidiaries to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to allow us to make scheduled payments on our debt will depend upon their future financial performance, which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside of our control as well as their ability to repatriate cash to us. If our subsidiaries do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to help us satisfy our debt obligations, including payments on the 2021 Senior Notes, or if they are unable to distribute sufficient cash flow to us, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital expenditures or seeking to raise additional capital. Refinancing may not be possible, and any assets may not be saleable, or, if sold, we may not realize sufficient amounts from those sales. Additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, or we may be prohibited from incurring it, if available, under the terms of our various debt instruments then in effect. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may constitute \"forward-looking\" statements as defined in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 (the \"Securities Act\"), Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the \"Exchange Act\"), the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the \"PSLRA\"), or in releases made by the SEC, all as may be amended from time to time. Statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not historical facts may be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the PSLRA. Any such forward-looking statements reflect our beliefs and assumptions and are based on information currently available to us. Forward-looking statements are only predictions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements, or industry results, to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. These cautionary statements are being made pursuant to the Securities Act, the Exchange Act and the PSLRA with the intention of obtaining the benefits of the \"safe harbor\" provisions of such laws. We caution investors that any forward-looking statements we make are not guarantees or indicative of future performance. For additional information regarding factors that may cause our results of operations to differ materially from those presented herein, please see \"Risk Factors\" contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and as are detailed from time to time in other reports we file with the SEC.. 20. You can identify forward-looking statements as those that are not historical in nature, particularly those that use terminology such as \"may,\" \"will,\" \"should,\" \"expect,\" \"anticipate,\" \"contemplate,\" \"estimate,\" \"believe,\" \"plan,\" \"project,\" \"predict,\" \"potential\" or \"continue,\" or the negative of these, or similar terms. In evaluating these forward-looking statements, you should consider the following factors, as well as others contained in our public filings from time to time, which may cause our actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statement:. • changes in market demand for our products due to global economic and political conditions;. • the impact of competition, both domestic and international, changes in industry production capacity, including the construction of new mills or new machines, the closing of mills and incremental changes due to capital expenditures or productivity increases;. • the loss of current customers or the inability to obtain new customers;. • increases in commodity prices, (particularly for pulp, energy and latex) due to constrained global supplies or unexpected supply disruptions;. • our ability to control costs, including transportation, and implement measures designed to enhance operating efficiencies;. • the availability of raw materials and energy;. • the enactment of adverse state, federal or foreign tax or other legislation or changes in government policy or regulation, including the recent Tax Act;. • unanticipated expenditures related to the cost of compliance with environmental and other governmental regulations;. • fluctuations in (i) exchange rates (in particular changes in the U.S. dollar/Euro currency exchange rates) and (ii) interest rates;. • increases in the funding requirements for our pension and postretirement liabilities;. • our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations;. • changes in asset valuations including write-downs of assets including property, plant and equipment; inventory, accounts receivable, deferred tax assets or other assets for impairment or other reasons;. • loss of key personnel;. • strikes, labor stoppages and changes in our collective bargaining agreements and relations with our employees and unions;. • capital and credit market volatility and fluctuations in global equity and fixed-income markets;. • our existing and future indebtedness;. • our net operating losses may not be available to offset our tax liability and other tax planning strategies may not be effective;. • other risks that are detailed from time to time in reports we file with the SEC; and. • other factors described under \"Risk Factors.\". You are cautioned not to unduly rely on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made, when evaluating the information presented in this information statement. We undertake no duty to update these forward-looking statements after the date of this Form 10-K, even though our situation may change in the future."
