[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. We operate our businesses in a highly competitive and regulated environment.  We are subject to risks including, but not limited to, strategic, market, liquidity, credit, regulatory, technology, operational, security, and other business risks such as reputation damage related to negative publicity and dependencies on key personnel, customers, vendors, and systems.  This section highlights specific risks that could affect us.  Although this section attempts to highlight key risk factors, other risks may emerge at any time and we cannot predict all risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance.  These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information included in this report.. Loan Portfolio. Our loan portfolio is subject to certain risks related to interest rates, our ability to manage the risks related to interest rates, prepayment, and credit risk, each of which could reduce the expected cash flows and earnings on our portfolio.. Interest rate risk - basis and repricing risk. We are exposed to interest rate risk in the form of basis risk and repricing risk because the interest rate characteristics of our loan assets do not always match the interest rate characteristics of the funding for those assets.. We fund the majority of our FFELP student loan assets with one-month or three-month LIBOR indexed floating rate securities.  In addition, the interest rates on some of our debt are set via a \"dutch auction.\"  Meanwhile, the interest earned on our FFELP. 18. student loan assets is indexed to one-month LIBOR, three-month commercial paper, and Treasury bill rates.  The different interest rate characteristics of our loan assets and our liabilities funding these assets result in basis risk.   We also face repricing risk due to the timing of the interest rate resets on our liabilities, which may occur as infrequently as once a quarter, in contrast to the timing of the interest rate resets on our assets, which generally occur daily. In a declining interest rate environment, this may cause our student loan spread to compress, while in a rising interest rate environment, it may cause the spread to increase.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $20.0 billion, $1.1 billion, and $0.6 billion of FFELP loans indexed to the one-month LIBOR, three-month commercial paper, and three-month Treasury bill rate, respectively, all of which reset daily, and $11.7 billion of debt indexed to three-month LIBOR, which resets quarterly, and $8.6 billion of debt indexed to one-month LIBOR, which resets monthly.  While these indices are all short term in nature with rate movements that are highly correlated over a longer period of time, there have been points in recent history related to the U.S. and European debt crisis that have caused volatility to be high and correlation to be reduced.  There can be no assurance that the indices' historically high level of correlation will not be disrupted in the future due to capital market dislocations or other factors not within our control. In such circumstances, our earnings could be adversely affected, possibly to a material extent.. We have entered into basis swaps to hedge our basis and repricing risk.  For these derivatives, we receive three-month LIBOR set discretely in advance and pay one-month LIBOR plus or minus a spread as defined in the agreements (the \"1:3 Basis Swaps\").. Interest rate risk - loss of floor income. FFELP loans originated prior to April 1, 2006 generally earn interest at the higher of the borrower rate, which is fixed over a period of time, or a floating rate based on the Special Allowance Payments (\"SAP\") formula set by the Department.  The SAP rate is based on an applicable index plus a fixed spread that depends on loan type, origination date, and repayment status. We generally finance our student loan portfolio with variable rate debt. In low and/or certain declining interest rate environments, when the fixed borrower rate is higher than the SAP rate, these student loans earn at a fixed rate while the interest on the variable rate debt typically continues to reflect the low and/or declining interest rates. In these interest rate environments, we may earn additional spread income that we refer to as floor income.. Depending on the type of loan and when it was originated, the borrower rate is either fixed to term or is reset to an annual rate each July 1. As a result, for loans where the borrower rate is fixed to term, we may earn floor income for an extended period of time, which we refer to as fixed rate floor income, and for those loans where the borrower rate is reset annually on July 1, we may earn floor income to the next reset date, which we refer to as variable rate floor income.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we earned $117.3 million of fixed rate floor income, which includes $10.8 million of net settlement proceeds received related to derivatives used to hedge loans earning fixed rate floor income.  Absent the use of derivative instruments, a rise in interest rates will reduce the amount of floor income received and this will have an impact on earnings due to interest margin compression caused by increased financing costs, until such time as the federally insured loans earn interest at a variable rate in accordance with their SAP formulas.  In higher interest rate environments, where the interest rate rises above the borrower rate and fixed rate loans effectively convert to variable rate loans, the impact of the rate fluctuations is reduced.. Interest rate risk - use of derivatives. We utilize derivative instruments to manage interest rate sensitivity.  Our derivative instruments are intended as economic hedges but do not qualify for hedge accounting; consequently, the change in fair value, called the \"mark-to-market,\" of these derivative instruments is included in our operating results.  Changes or shifts in the forward yield curve can and have significantly impacted the valuation of our derivatives.  Accordingly, changes or shifts in the forward yield curve will impact our results of operations.. Although we believe our derivative instruments are highly effective, developing an effective strategy for dealing with movements in interest rates is complex, and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with such fluctuations.  Because many of our derivatives are not balance guaranteed to a particular pool of student loans and we may not elect to fully hedge our risk on a notional and/or duration basis, we are subject to the risk of being under or over hedged, which could result in material losses.  In addition, our interest rate risk management activities could expose us to substantial mark-to-market losses if interest rates move in a materially different way than was expected based on the environment when the derivatives were entered into.  As a result, we cannot offer any assurance that our economic hedging activities will effectively manage our interest rate sensitivity or have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition.. The Dodd-Frank Act provides the CFTC with substantial authority to regulate over-the-counter derivative transactions. Since June 10, 2013, the CFTC has required over-the-counter derivative transactions to be executed through an exchange or central. 19. clearinghouse.  Accordingly, all over-the-counter derivative contracts executed by us since that date are cleared post-execution at a regulated clearinghouse.  Clearing is a process by which a third-party, the clearinghouse, steps in between the original counterparties and guarantees the performance of both, by requiring that each post substantial amounts of liquid collateral on an initial (initial margin) and mark-to-market (variation margin) basis to cover the clearinghouse's potential future exposure in the event of default.  The CFTC's clearing requirements do not alter or affect the terms and conditions of our over-the-counter derivative instruments executed prior to June 10, 2013.   The clearing requirements require us to post substantial amounts of liquid collateral when executing new derivative instruments, which could negatively impact our liquidity and capital resources and may prevent or limit us from utilizing derivative instruments to manage interest rate sensitivity and risks.  However, the clearing requirements reduce counterparty risk associated with over-the-counter derivative instruments executed by us after June 10, 2013.. For derivatives executed on and prior to June 10, 2013 or not executed through an exchange or central clearinghouse (\"non-centrally cleared derivatives\"), we are exposed to credit risk.  We attempt to manage credit risk by entering into transactions with high-quality counterparties that are reviewed periodically by our internal risk committee and our board of directors' Risk and Finance Committee.  As of December 31, 2017, all of our derivative counterparties had investment grade credit ratings. We also have a policy of requiring that all derivative contracts be governed by an International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. Master Agreement.  When the fair value of a non-centrally cleared derivative is positive (an asset on our balance sheet), this generally indicates that the counterparty owes us if the derivative was settled. If the counterparty fails to perform, credit risk with such counterparty is equal to the extent of the fair value gain in the derivative less any collateral held by us. If we were unable to collect from a counterparty, we would have a loss equal to the amount at which the derivative is recorded on the consolidated balance sheet.. When the fair value of a non-centrally cleared derivative is negative (a liability on our balance sheet), we would owe the counterparty if the derivative was settled and, therefore, have no immediate credit risk.  If the negative fair value of derivatives with a counterparty exceeds a specified threshold, we may have to make a collateral deposit with the counterparty. The threshold at which we may be required to post collateral is dependent upon our unsecured credit rating.  We believe any downgrades from our current unsecured credit ratings (Standard & Poor's: BBB- (stable outlook), Moody's: Ba1 (stable outlook), and DBRS: BBB (low) (stable outlook)), would not result in additional collateral requirements of a material nature.  In addition, no counterparty has the right to terminate our contracts in the event of downgrades from the current ratings.. Interest rate movements have an impact on the amount of collateral we are required to deposit with our derivative instrument counterparties and variation margin payments with our clearinghouse.  We attempt to manage market risk associated with interest rates by establishing and monitoring limits as to the types and degree of risk that may be undertaken.  Our derivative portfolio and hedging strategy is reviewed periodically by our internal risk committee and our board of directors' Risk and Finance Committee.  Based on the interest rate swaps outstanding as of December 31, 2017 (for both the floor income and hybrid debt hedges), if the forward interest rate curve was one basis point lower for the remaining duration of these derivatives, we would have been required to pay $1.5 million in additional collateral and/or variation margin.  In addition, if the forward basis curve between 1-month and 3-month LIBOR experienced a one basis point reduction in spread for the remaining duration of our 1:3 Basis Swaps (in which we pay 1-month LIBOR and receive 3-month LIBOR), we would have been required to post $3.2 million in additional collateral and/or variation margin.. With our current derivative portfolio, we do not currently anticipate a near term movement in interest rates having a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources, nor expect future movements in interest rates to have a material impact on our ability to meet potential collateral deposit requirements with our counterparties or variation margin payments to our clearinghouse.  Due to the existing low interest rate environment, our exposure to downward movements in interest rates on our interest rate swaps is limited.  In addition, we believe the historical high correlation between 1-month and 3-month LIBOR limits our exposure to interest rate movements on the 1:3 Basis Swaps.. However, if interest rates move materially and negatively impact the fair value of our derivative portfolio or if we enter into additional derivatives in which the fair value of such derivatives becomes negative, we could be required to pay a significant amount of collateral to our derivative instrument counterparties and/or variation margin to our clearinghouse.  These payments, if significant, could negatively impact our liquidity and capital resources.. Prepayment risk. Higher rates of prepayments of student loans, including consolidations by the Department through the Federal Direct Loan Program or private refinancing programs, would reduce our interest income.. 20. Pursuant to the Higher Education Act, borrowers may prepay loans made under the FFEL Program at any time without penalty.  Prepayments may result from consolidations of student loans by the Department through the Federal Direct Loan Program or by a lending institution through a private education or unsecured consumer loan, which historically tend to occur more frequently in low interest rate environments; from borrower defaults, which will result in the receipt of a guaranty payment; and from voluntary full or partial prepayments; among other things.. Legislative risk exists as Congress evaluates proposals to reauthorize the Higher Education Act.  If the federal government and the Department initiate additional loan forgiveness, other repayment options or plans, or consolidation loan programs, such initiatives could further increase prepayments and reduce interest income, and could also reduce servicing fees.. The rate of prepayments of student loans may be influenced by a variety of economic, social, political, and other factors affecting borrowers, including interest rates, federal budgetary pressures, and the availability of alternative financing.  Our profits could be adversely affected by higher prepayments, which reduce the balance of loans outstanding and, therefore, the amount of interest income we receive.. Credit risk. Future losses due to defaults on loans held by us present credit risk which could adversely affect our earnings.. The vast majority (98.8 percent) of our student loan portfolio is federally guaranteed.  The allowance for loan losses from the federally insured loan portfolio is based on periodic evaluations of our loan portfolios, considering loans in repayment versus those in nonpaying status, delinquency status, trends in defaults in the portfolio based on Company and industry data, past experience, trends in student loan claims rejected for payment by guarantors, changes to federal student loan programs, current economic conditions, and other relevant factors.  The federal government currently guarantees 97 percent of the principal and interest on federally insured student loans disbursed on and after July 1, 2006 (and 98 percent for those loans disbursed on and after October 1, 1993 and prior to July 1, 2006), which limits our loss exposure on the outstanding balance of our federally insured portfolio.  Student loans disbursed prior to October 1, 1993 are fully insured for both principal and interest.. Our private education and consumer loans are unsecured, with neither a government nor a private insurance guarantee.  Accordingly, we bear the full risk of loss on these loans if the borrower and co-borrower, if applicable, default.  In determining the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses on the private education and consumer loans, we consider several factors, including: loans in repayment versus those in a nonpaying status, delinquency status, type of program, trends in defaults in the portfolio based on Company and industry data, past experience, current economic conditions, and other relevant factors.  We place our private education and consumer loans on nonaccrual status when the collection of principal and interest is 90 days past due, and charge off the loan when the collection of principal and interest is 120 days past due.. The evaluation of the allowance for loan losses is inherently subjective, as it requires material estimates that may be subject to significant changes.  As of December 31, 2017, our allowance for loan losses was $54.6 million.  During the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized a provision for loan losses of $14.5 million.  The provision for loan losses reflects the activity for the applicable period and provides an allowance at a level that management believes is appropriate to cover probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio.  However, future defaults can be higher than anticipated due to a variety of factors, such as downturns in the economy, regulatory or operational changes, and other unforeseen future trends. If actual performance is significantly worse than currently estimated, it would materially affect our estimate of the allowance for loan losses and the related provision for loan losses in our statements of income.. In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued accounting guidance regarding the measurement of credit losses on financial instruments, which will change the way entities recognize impairment of many financial assets by requiring immediate recognition of estimated credit losses expected to occur over the asset's remaining life. We currently use an incurred loss model when calculating our allowance for loan losses.  As a result, we expect the new guidance will increase our allowance for loan losses.  This guidance will be effective for us beginning January 1, 2020.  This standard represents a significant departure from existing accounting standards, and may result in significant changes to our accounting for the allowance for loan losses and could negatively impact our financial position and results of operations.. 21. Liquidity and Funding. The current maturities of our student loan warehouse financing facilities do not match the maturities of the related funded student loans, and we may not be able to modify and/or find alternative funding related to the student loan collateral in these facilities prior to their expiration.. The majority of our portfolio of student loans is funded through asset-backed securitizations that are structured to substantially match the maturities of the funded assets, and there are minimal liquidity issues related to these facilities.  We also have student loans funded in shorter term warehouse facilities.  The current maturities of these facilities do not match the maturity of the related funded assets.  Therefore, we will need to modify and/or find alternative funding related to the student loan collateral in these facilities prior to their expiration.. As of December 31, 2017, we maintained two FFELP warehouse facilities as described in note 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this report.  The FFELP warehouse facilities have revolving financing structures supported by 364-day liquidity provisions, which expire in May 2018 and September 2019.  In the event we are unable to renew the liquidity provisions for a facility, the facility would become a term facility at a stepped-up cost, with no additional student loans being eligible for financing, and we would be required to refinance the existing loans in the facility by the final maturity dates in May 2020 and November 2019, respectively.  The FFELP warehouse facilities also contain financial covenants relating to levels of our consolidated net worth, ratio of adjusted EBITDA to corporate debt interest, and unencumbered cash. Any noncompliance with these covenants could result in a requirement for the immediate repayment of any outstanding borrowings under the facilities.  As of December 31, 2017, $336.0 million was outstanding under the FFELP warehouse facilities and $22.4 million was advanced as equity support.. If we are unable to obtain cost-effective funding alternatives for the loans in the warehouse facilities prior to the facilities' maturities, our cost of funds could increase, adversely affecting our results of operations.  If we cannot find any funding alternatives, we would lose our collateral, including the student loan assets and cash advances, related to these facilities.. We are exposed to mark-to-formula collateral support risk on one of our FFELP warehouse facilities.. One of our FFELP warehouse facilities provides formula based advance rates based on market conditions, which requires equity support to be posted to the facility.  As of December 31, 2017, $189.5 million was outstanding under this warehouse facility and $9.5 million was advanced as equity support.  In the event that a significant change in the valuation of loans results in additional required equity funding support for this warehouse facility greater than what we can provide, the warehouse facility could be subject to an event of default resulting in termination of the facility and an acceleration of the repayment provisions.  If we cannot find any funding alternatives, we would lose our collateral, including the student loan assets and cash advances, related to this facility.  A default on the FFELP warehouse facility would result in an event of default on our $350.0 million unsecured line of credit that would result in the outstanding balance on the line of credit becoming immediately due and payable.. We are subject to economic and market fluctuations related to our investments.. We currently invest a substantial portion of our excess cash in student loan asset-backed securities and other investments that are subject to market fluctuations.  The fair value of these investments was $80.9 million as of December 31, 2017, including $76.9 million in student loan and other asset-backed securities. The student loan asset-backed securities earn a floating interest rate and carry expected returns of approximately LIBOR + 200-400 basis points to maturity.  While the vast majority of these securities are backed by FFELP government guaranteed student loan collateral, most are in subordinate tranches and have a greater risk of loss with respect to the applicable student loan collateral pool.  While we expect these securities to have few credit issues if held to maturity, they do have limited liquidity, and we could incur a significant loss if the investments were sold prior to maturity at an amount less than the original purchase price.. Changes in ratings on asset-backed securitization transactions, including those we sponsor, can have a material adverse impact on our ability to access the asset-backed securities market.. After securitizations are initially issued, if their performance does not align with rating agencies' expectations at the time of issuance, or if the rating agencies modify their assumptions and methodologies used for rating student loan securitizations, it is possible that initial high quality ratings on our subsidiaries' securitizations, or those of other asset-backed securities issuers, could be materially lowered.  Such actions could adversely affect our ability to access the asset-backed securities market, or make new securitization transactions more expensive by requiring us to pay a higher spread over LIBOR when pricing new bonds.. 22. Operations. Risks associated with our operations, as further discussed below, include those related to our information technology systems and potential security and privacy breaches, our ability to manage performance related to regulatory requirements, and the importance of maintaining scale by retaining existing customers and attracting new business opportunities.. Various events could disrupt our networks, information systems, or properties which could impair our operating activities and negatively impact our reputation.. As a loan servicer, software provider, payment provider, and telecommunications company for the federal government, financial institutions, education industry, and local communities that serve millions of customers through the internet and other distribution channels across the U.S., we depend on our ability to process, secure, record, and monitor a large number of customer transactions and confidential information on a continuous basis. Additionally, we depend on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer network systems, software, datacenters, and telecommunications systems, as well as the systems of third parties.. Information security risks continue to increase in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to support and process customer transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, and other external parties.  Our business segments rely on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software, and networks to conduct their operations. In addition, to access our products and services, our customers may use personal smartphones, tablet PCs, and other mobile devices that are beyond our control systems.. Although we believe we have robust information security procedures, controls, and business continuity plans, we may be subject to information technology system failures and network disruptions. Malicious and abusive activities, such as the dissemination of computer viruses, worms, and other destructive or disruptive software, computer hackings, social engineering, process breakdowns, denial of service attacks, and other malicious activities have become more common. If directed at us or technologies upon which we depend, these activities could have adverse consequences on our network and our customers, including degradation of service, excessive call volume to call centers, and damage to our or our customers' equipment and data. Further, these activities could result in security breaches, such as misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification or accidental release or loss of information maintained in our information technology systems and networks, and in our vendors' systems and networks, including customer, personnel, and vendor data. System failures and network disruptions may also be caused by natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, or telecommunications failures. If a significant incident were to occur, it could damage our reputation and credibility, lead to customer dissatisfaction and, ultimately, loss of customers or revenue, in addition to increased costs to service our customers and protect our network. These events also could result in large expenditures to repair or replace the damaged properties, networks, or information systems or to protect them from similar events in the future. System redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate, and our business continuity plans may not be sufficient for all eventualities. Any significant loss of customers or revenue, or significant increase in costs of serving those customers, could adversely affect our growth, financial condition, and results of operations.. Although to date we have not experienced a material loss relating to cyber-attacks, information security breaches, or system outage, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future or that there is not a current threat that remains undetected at this time. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, and the size and scale of our services.. In addition, the personal consumer data that we receive and maintain in our operations is subject to privacy laws and regulations, and we expect regulatory oversight will continue to increase and consumer privacy protection regulations, standards, supervision, examinations, and enforcement practices will continue to evolve in both detail and scope. This evolution may significantly add to our privacy compliance and operating costs.. As a result of these matters, the continued development and enhancement of our training, controls, processes, and practices designed to protect, monitor, and restore our systems, computers, software, data, and networks from attack, damage, or unauthorized access remain a priority for the Company and each of our business segments.  Even though we maintain technology and telecommunication, professional services, media, network security, privacy, injury, and liability insurance coverage to offset costs that may be incurred as a result of a cyber-attack, information security breach, or extended system outage, this insurance coverage may not cover all costs of such incidents.. 23. We must adapt to rapid technological change. If we are unable to take advantage of technological developments, or if we adopt and implement them more slowly than our competitors, we may experience a decline in the demand for our products and services.. Our long-term operating results depend substantially upon our ability to continually enhance, develop, introduce, and market new products and services.  We must continually and cost-effectively maintain and improve our information technology systems and infrastructure in order to successfully deliver competitive and cost effective products and services to our customers.  The widespread adoption of new technologies and market demands could require substantial expenditures to enhance system infrastructure and existing products and services.  If we fail to enhance and scale our systems and operational infrastructure or products and services, our operating segments may lose their competitive advantage and this could adversely affect financial and operating results.. Our software products may experience quality problems and development delays, which could damage client relations, our potential profitability, and expose us to liability.. Our Loan Systems and Servicing and Tuition Payment Processing and Campus Commerce products are based on sophisticated software and computing systems that often encounter development delays, and the underlying software may contain undetected bugs or other defects that interfere with its intended operation. Quality problems with our software products and errors or delays in our processing of electronic transactions could result in additional development costs, diversion of technical and other resources from our other development efforts, loss of credibility with current or potential clients, harm to our reputation, or exposure to liability claims. In addition, we rely on technologies supplied to us by third parties that may also contain undetected errors or defects that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We outsource critical operations, which exposes us to risks related to our third-party vendors.. We have entered into contracts with third-party service providers that provide critical services, technology, and software to our business segments. Some of our third-party vendors are primary service providers for which there are few substitutes. If any of these vendors should experience financial difficulties, system interruptions, regulatory violations, security threats, or they cannot otherwise meet our specifications, our ability to provide some services may be materially adversely affected, in which case our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be adversely affected.. We must satisfy certain requirements necessary to maintain the federal guarantees of our federally insured loans and the federally insured loans that we service for third parties, and we may incur penalties or lose our guarantees if we fail to meet these requirements.. As of December 31, 2017, we serviced $27.3 billion of FFELP loans that maintained a federal guarantee, of which $17.8 billion and $9.5 billion were owned by the Company and third-party entities, respectively.. We must meet various requirements in order to maintain the federal guarantee on federally insured loans.  The federal guarantee on federally insured loans is conditional based on compliance with origination, servicing, and collection policies set by the Department and guaranty agencies.  If the Company misinterprets Department guidance, or incorrectly applies the Higher Education Act, the Department could determine that the Company is not in compliance.  Federally insured loans that are not originated, disbursed, or serviced in accordance with the Department's and guaranty agency regulations may risk partial or complete loss of the guarantee.  If we experience a high rate of servicing deficiencies (including any deficiencies resulting from the conversion of loans from one servicing platform to another, errors in the loan origination process, establishment of the borrower's repayment status, and due diligence or claim filing processes), it could result in the loan guarantee being revoked or denied.  In most cases we have the opportunity to cure these deficiencies by following a prescribed cure process which usually involves obtaining the borrower's reaffirmation of the debt.  However, not all deficiencies can be cured.. We are allowed three years from the date of the loan rejection to cure most loan rejections.  If a cure cannot be achieved during this three-year period, insurance is permanently revoked, although we maintain our right to collect the loan proceeds from the borrower.  In cases where we purchase loans that were previously serviced by another servicing institution and we identify a serving deficiency by the prior servicer, we may, based on the terms of the purchase agreement, have the ability to require the previous lender to repurchase the rejected loans.. A guaranty agency may also assess an interest penalty upon claim payment if the deficiency does not result in a loan rejection. These interest penalties are not subject to cure provisions and are typically related to isolated instances of due diligence deficiencies.    Additionally, we may become ineligible for special allowance payment benefits from the time of the first deficiency leading to the loan rejection through the date that the loan is cured.. 24. Failure to comply with federal and guarantor regulations may result in fines, penalties, the loss of the insurance and related federal guarantees on affected FFELP loans, the loss of special allowance payment benefits, expenses required to cure servicing deficiencies, suspension or termination of the right to participate as a FFELP servicer, negative publicity, and potential legal claims, including potential claims by our servicing customers if they lose the federal guarantee on loans that we service for them.  If the Company is subjected to significant fines, or loss of insurance or guarantees on a material number of FFELP loans, or if the Company loses its ability to service FFELP loans, it could have a material, negative impact on the Company's business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Our largest fee-based customer, the Department of Education, represented 21 percent of our revenue in 2017.  Failure to extend the Department contract or obtain a new Department contract, unfavorable contract modifications or interpretations, or our inability to consistently surpass competitor performance metrics, could significantly lower loan servicing revenue and hinder future servicing opportunities.. We are one of four TIVAS awarded a student loan servicing contract by the Department to provide additional servicing capacity for loans owned by the Department.  The Department also has contracts with 31 NFP entities to service student loans, although currently 5 NFP servicers service the volume allocated to these 31 entities.  New loan volume is allocated among the four TIVAS and 5 NFP servicers based on certain performance metrics established by the Department and compared among all loan servicers in this group.  As of December 31, 2017, we were servicing $172.7 billion of student loans for 5.9 million borrowers under this contract.  For the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized $155.8 million in revenue from the Department, which represented 21 percent of our revenue.. The amount of future allocations of new loan volume could be negatively impacted if we are unable to consistently surpass comparable competitor performance metrics. In addition, in the event the existing Department servicing contract becomes subject to unfavorable modifications or interpretations by the Department, loan servicing revenue could decrease significantly.. Our contract with the Department is currently scheduled to expire on June 16, 2019. On February 20, 2018, the Department's Office of Federal Student Aid released information regarding a new procurement process.  The contract solicitation process is divided into two phases.  Responses for Phase One are due on April 6, 2018.  The contract solicitation requests responses from interested vendors for nine components.  Vendors may provide a response for an individual, multiple, or all components.  We intend to respond to Phase One of the solicitation.. In the event that our servicing contract is not extended beyond the expiration date or we are not chosen as a subsequent servicer, loan servicing revenue would decrease significantly.  There are significant risks and uncertainties regarding the current Department contract and potential future Department contracts, including potential delays, cancellation, or material changes to the structure of the contract procurement process.. Additionally, we are partially dependent on the existing Department contract to broaden servicing operations with the Department, other federal and state agencies, and commercial clients.  The size and importance of this contract provides us the scale and infrastructure needed to profitably expand into new business opportunities.  Failure to extend the Department contract beyond the current expiration date, or obtain a new Department contract, could significantly hinder future opportunities.. Our contract with the Department of Education exposes us to additional risks inherent in government contracts.. The Federal government could engage in a prolonged debate linking the federal deficit, debt ceiling and other budget issues. If U.S. lawmakers in the future fail to reach agreement on these issues, the federal government could stop or delay payment on its obligations. Further, legislation to address the federal deficit and spending could impose proposals that would adversely affect the FFEL and Federal Direct Loan Programs' servicing businesses.. We contract with Federal Student Aid (FSA) to administer loans held by FSA in both the FFEL and Federal Direct Loan Programs, we own a portfolio of FFELP loans, and we service our FFELP loans and loans for third parties.  These loan programs are authorized by the Higher Education Act and subject to periodic reauthorization and changes to the programs by the Administration and U.S. Congress.  The latest round of reauthorization is taking place currently.  We cannot predict what will or will not be in the final law.  However, any changes, including the potential for borrowers to refinance loans via Direct Consolidation Loans, both federal and private, could have a material impact to our cash flows from servicing, interest income, and operating margins.. 25. Government entities in the United States often reserve the right to audit contract costs and conduct inquiries and investigations of business practices. These entities also conduct reviews and investigations and make inquiries regarding systems, including systems of third parties, used in connection with the performance of the contracts. Negative findings from audits, investigations, or inquiries could affect the contractor's future revenues and profitability. If improper or illegal activities are found in the course of government audits or investigations, we could become subject to various civil and criminal penalties, including those under the civil U.S. False Claims Act. Additionally, we may be subject to administrative sanctions, which may include termination or non-renewal of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions, or debarment from doing business with other agencies of that government. Due to the inherent limitations of internal controls, it may not be possible to detect or prevent all improper or illegal activities.. The Government could change governmental policies, regulatory environments, spending sentiment, and many other factors and conditions, some of which could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations.  We cannot predict how or what programs or policies will be impacted by the federal government.  The conditions described above could impact not only our contract with the Department, but also other existing or future contracts with government or commercial entities.. Our ability to continue to grow and maintain our contracts with commercial businesses and government agencies is partly dependent on our ability to maintain compliance with various laws, regulations, and industry standards applicable to those contracts.. We are subject to various laws, regulations, and industry standards related to our commercial and government contracts.  In most cases, these contracts are subject to termination rights, audits, and investigations. The laws and regulations that impact our operating segments are outlined in Part I, Item 1, \"Regulation and Supervision.\"  Additionally, our contracts with the federal government require that we maintain internal controls in accordance with the National Institute of Standards and Technologies (\"NIST\") and our operating segments that utilize payment cards are subject to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards (\"PCI-DSS\").  If we are found to be in noncompliance with the contract provisions or applicable laws, regulations, or standards, or the contracted party exercises its termination or other rights for that or other reasons, our reputation could be negatively affected, and our ability to compete for new contracts or maintain existing contracts could diminish.  If this were to occur, our results of operations from existing contracts and future opportunities for new contracts could be negatively affected.. Our failure to successfully manage business and certain asset acquisitions and other investments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations.. The success of our acquisition of ALLO in December 2015 and continued investment in the communications business depends in large part on the ability of ALLO to successfully develop and expand fiber networks in existing service areas and additional communities within acceptable cost parameters, gain market share in communities in existing service areas, and obtain acceptable market share levels in additional communities that we do not yet serve.  ALLO may not be able to achieve those objectives and we may not realize the expected benefits from ALLO.  In addition, the expected benefits are subject to risks related to the uncertain nature of our ability to successfully integrate operations; the ability to successfully maintain technological competitive advantages with respect to the offered telecommunications, internet, television, telephone, and other related services and minimize potential system disruptions to the availability, speed, and quality of such services; potential changes in the marketplace, including potential decreases in market pricing for telecommunications and related services; potential changes in the demand for fiber optic internet, television, and telephone services; and increases in transport and content costs as discussed below.. We acquired Great Lakes on February 7, 2018.  Great Lakes and our subsidiary, Nelnet Servicing, will continue to service their respective government-owned portfolios on behalf of the Department, while maintaining distinct brands, independent servicing operations, and teams.  Likewise, each entity will continue to compete for new student loan volume under its respective existing contract with the Department.  However, these entities will integrate technology, as well as shared services and other activities, to become more efficient and effective in meeting borrower needs.  The success of our acquisition of Great Lakes depends on our ability to successfully integrate technology, shared services, and other operating activities and successfully maintain and increase allocated volumes of student loans serviced under existing and any future servicing contracts with the Department.  Great Lakes and Nelnet Servicing have also been working for almost two years to develop a new, state-of-the-art servicing system for government-owned student loans.  The servicing platform under development will utilize modern technology to effectively scale for additional volume, protect customer information, and support enhanced borrower experience initiatives.  The expected benefits from the servicing platform under development may not be realized.. We may acquire other new businesses, products, and services, or enhance existing businesses, products, and services, or make other investments to further diversify our businesses both within and outside of our historical education-related businesses, through acquisitions of other companies, product lines, technologies, and personnel, or through investments in new asset classes, real estate,. 26. or other companies. Any acquisition or investment is subject to a number of risks. Such risks may include diversion of management time and resources, disruption of our ongoing businesses, difficulties in integrating acquisitions, loss of key employees, degradation of services, difficulty expanding information technology systems and other business processes to incorporate the acquired businesses,  extensive regulatory requirements, dilution to existing shareholders if our common stock is issued in consideration for an acquisition or investment, incurring or assuming indebtedness or other liabilities in connection with an acquisition, unexpected declines in real estate values or the failure to realize expected benefits from real estate development projects, lack of familiarity with new markets, and difficulties in supporting new product lines.  Our failure to successfully manage acquisitions or investments, or successfully integrate acquisitions, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations. Correspondingly, our expectations as to the accretive nature of the acquisitions or investments could be inaccurate.. Transport and content costs related to ALLO's video products and services are substantial and continue to increase.. The cost of video transport and content costs is expected to continue to be one of ALLO's largest operating costs associated with providing television service. Television programming content includes cable-oriented programming, as well as the programming of local over-the-air television stations that ALLO retransmits. In addition, on-demand programming is being made available in response to customer demand.  In recent years, the cable industry has experienced rapid increases in the cost of programming, especially the costs for sports programming and for local broadcast station retransmission consent. Programming costs are generally assessed on a per-subscriber basis, and therefore are related directly to the number of subscribers to which the programming is provided.  ALLO's relatively small base of subscribers limits our ability to negotiate lower per-subscriber programming costs, whereas larger providers can often obtain discounts based on the number of their subscribers. This cost difference can cause ALLO to experience reduced operating margins relative to our competitors with a larger subscriber base. In addition, escalators in existing content agreements cause cost increases that are out of line with general inflation. While ALLO expects these increases to continue, it may not be able to pass programming cost increases on to customers, particularly as an increasing amount of programming content becomes available via the internet at little or no cost. Also, some competitors (or their affiliates) own programming in their own right and ALLO may be unable to secure license rights to that programming. As ALLO's programming contracts with content providers expire, there can be no assurance that they will be renewed on acceptable terms or at all, in which case ALLO may be unable to provide such television programming causing business results to be adversely affected.. If ALLO cannot obtain and maintain necessary rights-of-way for its communications network, ALLO's operations may be interrupted and it would likely face increased costs.. ALLO is dependent on easements, franchises, and licenses from various private parties such as established telephone companies and other utilities, railroads, long-distance companies and from state highway authorities, local governments and transit authorities for access to aerial pole space, underground conduits, and other rights-of-way in order to construct and operate its networks.  Some agreements relating to rights-of-way may be short-term or revocable at will, and ALLO cannot be certain that it will continue to have access to existing rights-of-way after the governing agreements are terminated or expire.  If any of ALLO's right-of-way agreements were terminated or could not be renewed, it may be forced to remove network facilities from the affected areas, relocate, or abandon networks, which would interrupt operations and force ALLO to find alternative rights-of-way, and make unexpected capital expenditures.. If ALLO cannot successfully manage construction risks and uncertainties, the expansion of its communications networks may not be achieved within acceptable cost parameters or result in desired levels of market share.. The success of our investment in ALLO depends on the ability of ALLO to successfully execute its current efforts and plans to construct expanded fiber communications networks to make its services available to additional homes and businesses. The construction of communications networks is subject to various risks and uncertainties, including risks and uncertainties related to the determination of the precise locations of easements and other rights-of-way necessary to construct and operate the networks, and the management of such construction in a manner that reasonably minimizes the disruption to other private property owners, including minimizing any unintended damage to property or equipment owned or utilized by private parties. If ALLO is not successful in managing these and similar construction risks, it could experience higher than expected costs and reputational damage that adversely impacts market share and future revenues, and the currently expected benefits from its expansion efforts and plans may not be realized.. ALLO may incur liabilities or suffer negative financial impact relating to occupational, health, and safety matters or failure to comply with safety or environmental laws.. Aerial and underground construction of new networks and service requires employees and contractors to work in the proximity of gas, electric, water, sewer, and other competitors' utility services, and ALLO's operations are subject to extensive laws and. 27. regulations relating to the maintenance of safe conditions in the workplace. While ALLO has invested, and will continue to invest, substantial resources in its robust occupational, health, and safety programs, ALLO's business involves a high degree of operational risk, and there can be no assurance that it will avoid significant exposure. These hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, and other consequential damages and could lead to suspension of operations, large damage claims and, in extreme cases, criminal liability. ALLO could also be subject to potential liabilities in the event it causes a release of hazardous substances or other environmental damage resulting from underground objects they encounter. Environmental laws and regulations can impose significant fines and criminal sanctions for violations. Costs associated with the discharge of hazardous substances may include clean-up costs and related damages or liabilities. These costs could be significant and could adversely affect ALLO's results of operations and cash flows.. Industry changes and competitive pressures may harm revenues and profit margins, including future revenues and profit margins of our communications business through ALLO.. We face aggressive price competition for our products and services and, as a result, we may have to lower our product and service prices to stay competitive, while at the same time, expand market share and maintain profit margins.  Even if we are able to maintain or increase market share for a product or service, revenue or profit margins could decline because the product or service is in a maturing market or market conditions have changed due to economic, political, or regulatory pressures.. The internet, television, and telecommunications businesses are highly competitive.  For a discussion of the competitive factors faced by ALLO, see Part I, Item I, \"Communications - Competition.\"  ALLO may not be able to successfully anticipate and respond to many of these various competitive factors affecting the industry, including regulatory changes that may affect competitors and ALLO differently, new technologies, services and applications that may be introduced, and changes in consumer preferences, demographic trends, and discount or bundled pricing strategies by competitors which are larger and have more resources than ALLO.  If ALLO does not compete effectively, it could lose customers, revenue, and market share; customers may reduce their usage of ALLO's services or switch to a less profitable service; and ALLO may need to lower prices or increase marketing efforts to remain competitive.. Our enterprise risk management framework may not be effective in mitigating all risks.. Our enterprise risk management framework includes policies, processes, personnel, and control systems to identify, measure, monitor, control, and report risks. This framework is designed to mitigate and appropriately balance risk exposure with the company's strategic objectives and desired returns. However, there may be risks that exist, or that develop in the future, that we have not anticipated, identified, or mitigated. If our enterprise risk management framework does not effectively identify and manage these risks, we could suffer unexpected losses, and our results of operations, cash flow, or financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. Regulatory and Legal. Federal and state laws and regulations can restrict our businesses and result in increased compliance expenses, and noncompliance with these laws and regulations could result in penalties, litigation, reputation damage, and a loss of customers.. Our operating segments and customers are heavily regulated by federal and state government regulatory agencies.  See Part I, Item 1, \"Regulation and Supervision.\"  The laws and regulations enforced by these agencies are proposed or enacted to protect consumers and the financial industry as a whole, not necessarily the Company, our operating segments, or our shareholders.  We have procedures and controls in place to monitor compliance with numerous federal and state laws and regulations.  However, because these laws and regulations are complex, differ between jurisdictions, and are often subject to interpretation, or as a result of unintended errors, we may, from time to time, inadvertently violate these laws and regulations.  Compliance with these laws and regulations is expensive and requires the time and attention of management.  These costs divert capital and focus away from efforts intended to grow our business.  If we do not successfully comply with laws, regulations, or policies, we could incur fines or penalties, lose existing or new customer contracts or other business, and suffer damage to our reputation.  Changes in these laws and regulations can significantly alter our business environment, limit business operations, and increase costs of doing business, and we cannot predict the impact such changes would have on our profitability.. The CFPB has the authority to supervise and examine large nonbank student loan servicers, including us.  If in the course of such an examination the CFPB were to determine that we were not in compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and CFPB positions, it is possible that this could result in material adverse consequences, including, without limitation, settlements, fines, penalties, adverse regulatory actions, changes in our business practices, or other actions.  In 2015, the CFPB conducted a public inquiry into student loan servicing practices and issued a report recommending the creation of consistent, industry-wide standards for the entire. 28. servicing market. The CFPB has also announced that it may issue student loan servicing rules in the future.  This area is expected to be a continuing focus of the CFPB.. There is significant uncertainty regarding how the CFPB's recommendations, strategies, and priorities will impact our businesses and our results of operations going forward.  Actions by the CFPB could result in requirements to alter our services, causing them to be less attractive or effective and impair our ability to offer them profitably.  In the event that the CFPB changes regulations adopted in the past by other regulators, or modifies past regulatory guidance, our compliance costs and litigation exposure could increase.. As a result of the Reconciliation Act of 2010, interest income on our existing FFELP loan portfolio, as well as revenue from FFELP servicing and FFELP loan servicing software licensing and consulting fees, will continue to decline over time as our and our third-party lender clients' FFELP loan portfolios are paid down and FFELP clients exit the market.. The Reconciliation Act of 2010 discontinued new loan originations under the FFEL Program effective July 1, 2010, and requires that all new federal loan originations be made through the Federal Direct Loan Program. Although the law did not alter or affect the terms and conditions of existing FFELP loans, interest income and revenue streams related to existing FFELP loans will continue to decline over time as existing FFELP loans are paid down, refinanced, or repaid by guaranty agencies after default.. During the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, we recognized approximately $290 million, $360 million, and $425 million, respectively, of net interest income on our FFELP loan portfolio, approximately $16 million, $26 million, and $71 million, respectively, in guaranty and third-party FFELP servicing revenue, and approximately $5 million, $6 million, and $5 million, respectively, in FFELP loan servicing software licensing and consulting fees related to the FFEL Program. These amounts will continue to decline over time as our and our third-party lender clients' FFELP loan portfolios are paid down and FFELP clients exit the market.. If we are unable to grow or develop new revenue streams, our consolidated revenue and operating margin will decrease as a result of the decline in FFELP loan volume outstanding.. Exposure related to certain tax issues could decrease our net income.. Federal and state income tax laws and regulations are often complex and require interpretation. The nexus standards and the sourcing of receipts from intangible personal property and services have been the subject of state audits and litigation with state taxing authorities and tax policy debates by various state legislatures. As the U.S. Congress and U.S. Supreme Court have not provided clear guidance in this regard, conflicting state laws and court decisions create significant uncertainty and expense for taxpayers conducting interstate commerce. Changes in income tax regulations could negatively impact our results of operations. If states enact legislation, alter apportionment methodologies, or aggressively apply the income tax nexus standards, we may become subject to additional state taxes.. From time to time, we engage in transactions in which the tax consequences may be subject to uncertainty. Examples of such transactions include asset and business acquisitions and dispositions, financing transactions, apportionment, nexus standards, and income recognition. Significant judgment is required in assessing and estimating the tax consequences of these transactions. We prepare and file tax returns based on the interpretation of tax laws and regulations. In the normal course of business, our tax returns are subject to examination by various taxing authorities. Such examinations may result in future tax and interest assessments by these taxing authorities. In accordance with authoritative accounting guidance, we establish reserves for tax contingencies related to deductions and credits that we may be unable to sustain. Differences between the reserves for tax contingencies and the amounts ultimately owed are recorded in the period they become known. Adjustments to our reserves could have a material effect on our financial statements.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, signed into law on December 22, 2017, included a comprehensive tax overhaul that had significant impacts on our operating results in 2017 and will impact our operating results in future periods.  This legislation reduced the corporate statutory federal tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent, imposed new limits on business interest deductions, altered tax depreciation rules, changed the taxation of foreign earnings, and includes many other changes to U.S. corporate taxation.  Given the timing of enactment and extensive changes associated with the tax reform, our risk associated with federal tax laws has increased due to the absence of guidance on various uncertainties and ambiguities in the application of certain provisions of the legislation, and the possibility that taxing authorities could issue subsequent guidance or take positions on audit that differ from our prior interpretations and assumptions. Although the reduction in the statutory tax rate is effective January 1, 2018, it had an impact on our 2017 results of operations due to accounting guidance requiring us to adjust (or re-measure) our deferred tax assets and liabilities on the enactment date, which is the date the tax rate changes were signed into law.  Accordingly, a taxing authority may take a. 29. different position as to the appropriate timing of an item in our tax return, which could negatively impact our results of operations as the tax rates differ between periods.. In addition to corporate tax matters, as both a lender and servicer of student loans, we are required to report student loan interest received and cancellation of indebtedness to individuals and the Internal Revenue Service on an annual basis.  These informational forms assist individuals in complying with their federal and state income tax obligations.  The statutory and regulatory guidance regarding the calculations, recipients, and timing are complex and we know that interpretations of these rules vary across the industry.  The complexity and volume associated with these informational forms creates a risk of error which could result in penalties or damage to our reputation.. Principal Shareholder and Related Party Transactions. Our Executive Chairman beneficially owns 77.7 percent of the voting rights of our shareholders and effectively has control over all matters at our Company.. Michael S. Dunlap, our Executive Chairman and a principal shareholder, beneficially owns 77.7 percent of the voting rights of our shareholders.  Accordingly, each member of the Board of Directors and each member of management has been elected or effectively appointed by Mr. Dunlap and can be removed by Mr. Dunlap.  As a result, Mr. Dunlap, as Executive Chairman and controlling shareholder, has control over all matters at our Company and has the ability to take actions that benefit him, but may not benefit other minority shareholders, and may otherwise exercise his control in a manner with which other minority shareholders may not agree or which they may not consider to be in their best interests.. Our contractual arrangements and transactions with Union Bank and Trust Company (\"Union Bank\"), which is under common control with us, present conflicts of interest and pose risks to our shareholders that the terms may not be as favorable to us as we could receive from unrelated third parties.. Union Bank is controlled by Farmers & Merchants Investment Inc. (\"F&M\"), which owns 81.4 percent of Union Bank's common stock and 15.4 percent of Union Bank's non-voting non-convertible preferred stock.  Mr. Dunlap, a significant shareholder, as well as Executive Chairman, and a member of our Board of Directors, along with his spouse and children, owns or controls a total of 33.0 percent of the stock of F&M, including a total of 48.6 percent of the outstanding voting common stock of F&M, and Mr. Dunlap's sister, Angela L. Muhleisen, along with her spouse and children, owns or controls a total of 31.7 percent of F&M stock, including a total of 47.5 percent of the outstanding voting common stock of F&M. Mr. Dunlap serves as a Director and Chairman of F&M.  Ms. Muhleisen serves as a Director and Chief Executive Officer of F&M and as a Director, Chairperson, President, and Chief Executive Officer of Union Bank.  Union Bank is deemed to have beneficial ownership of a significant number of shares of Nelnet because it serves in a capacity of trustee or account manager for various trusts and accounts holding shares of Nelnet, and may share voting and/or investment power with respect to such shares.  As of December 31, 2017, Union Bank was deemed to beneficially own 11.3 percent of the voting rights of our outstanding common stock.  As of December 31, 2017, Mr. Dunlap and Ms. Muhleisen beneficially owned 77.7 percent and 12.4 percent, respectively, of the voting rights of our outstanding common stock.. We have entered into certain contractual arrangements with Union Bank, including loan purchases, loan servicing, loan participations, banking services, 529 Plan administration services, lease arrangements, and various other investment and advisory services.  The net aggregate impact on our consolidated statements of income for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015 related to the transactions with Union Bank was income (before income taxes) of $12.5 million, $7.0 million, and $6.6 million, respectively.  See note 20 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this report for additional information related to the transactions between us and Union Bank.. Transactions between Union Bank and us are generally based on available market information for comparable assets, products, and services and are extensively negotiated.  In addition, all related party transactions between Union Bank and us are approved by both the Union Bank Board of Directors and our Board of Directors.  Furthermore, Union Bank is subject to regulatory oversight and review by the FDIC, the Federal Reserve, and the State of Nebraska Department of Banking and Finance.  The FDIC and the State of Nebraska Department of Banking and Finance regularly review Union Bank's transactions with affiliates.  The regulatory standard applied to the bank falls under Regulation W, which places restrictions on certain \"covered\" transactions with affiliates.. We intend to maintain our relationship with Union Bank, which our management believes provides certain benefits to us.  Those benefits include Union Bank's knowledge of and experience in the FFELP industry, its willingness to provide services, and at times liquidity and capital resources, on an expedient basis, and the proximity of Union Bank to our corporate headquarters located in Lincoln, Nebraska.. 30. The majority of the transactions and arrangements with Union Bank are not offered to unrelated third parties or subject to competitive bids.  Accordingly, these transactions and arrangements not only present conflicts of interest, but also pose the risk to our shareholders that the terms of such transactions and arrangements may not be as favorable to us as we could receive from unrelated third parties.  Moreover, we may have and/or may enter into contracts and business transactions with related parties that benefit Mr. Dunlap and his sister, as well as other related parties, that may not benefit us and/or our minority shareholders."
