[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. Risks Associated with Our Business. We are dependent on Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. and its affiliate HiSilicon Technologies Co., Ltd., Ciena Corporation and our other key customers for a large portion of our revenue and the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders in any period from any of our major customers may reduce our revenue and adversely impact our results of operations.. We have generated most of our revenue from a limited number of customers. In the year ended December 31, 2017, Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd., together with its affiliate HiSilicon Technologies Co., Ltd. (collectively \"Huawei\"), and Ciena Corporation accounted for approximately 40% and 16% of our revenue, respectively, and our top five customers represented 78% of our revenue. In the year ended December 31, 2016, Huawei Technologies, together with its affiliate HiSilicon (or collectively, Huawei), and Ciena Corporation accounted for approximately 50% and 15% of our revenue, respectively, and our top five customers represented 82% of our revenue. In the year ended December 31, 2015, Huawei and Ciena Corporation accounted for approximately 44% and 21% of our revenue, respectively, and our top five customers represented 82% of our revenue. The loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from these major customers or any of our other key customers would materially and adversely affect our revenue and results of operations.. We are subject to risks and uncertainties related to our revenue growth outlook in China.. Fiber optics telecommunication growth in China is an important contributor to our success. We expect a major portion of our revenue to come from China infrastructure spending in wireline and wireless networks, notably from the three largest China telecom carriers, China Mobile Communications Corporation, China Telecommunications Corporation and China United Network Communications Group Co., Ltd. In part, this infrastructure spending originates from the publicly announced China Broadband 2020 and related initiatives. Tender awards from the China telecom carriers and spending under these initiatives was slower in 2017 than anticipated, and our leading customers in China had accumulated excess inventory during 2016, both of which adversely affected our financial condition and results of operations in 2017. If the anticipated Chinese spending and carrier tender awards do not materialize as anticipated, or if there are further unanticipated and/or prolonged delays in the Chinese initiative, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects would be further adversely affected.. We have had a history of losses which may recur in the future.. We have had a history of losses and we may incur additional losses in future periods. As of December 31, 2017, our accumulated deficit was $352.0 million.  We also expect to continue to make significant expenditures related to the ongoing operation and development of our business. These include expenditures related to the sales, marketing and development of our products and to maintain our manufacturing facilities and research and development operations.. We may need to raise additional capital in order to pursue our business strategies or maintain our operations, and we may not be able to obtain capital when desired on favorable terms, if at all, or without dilution to our stockholders.. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, and cash flows from our operating activities and funds available under our credit facilities will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months. However, we operate in an industry that makes our prospects difficult to evaluate. It is possible that we may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or otherwise have the capital resources to meet our future capital needs. If this occurs, we may need additional financing to continue operations or execute on our current or future business strategies, including to:. • invest in our research and development efforts, including by hiring additional technical and other personnel;. • maintain and expand our operating or manufacturing infrastructure;. • acquire complementary businesses, products, services or technologies; or. • otherwise pursue our strategic plans and respond to competitive pressures.. We do not know with certainty what forms of financing, if any, will be available to us. If financing is not available on acceptable terms, if and when needed, our ability to fund our operations, enhance our research and development and sales and marketing functions, develop and enhance our products, respond to unanticipated events, including unanticipated opportunities, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures could be adversely impacted. In any such event, our business, financial position and results of operations could be materially harmed. Moreover, if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders could be significantly diluted, and these newly issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. If we fail to raise sufficient additional capital if needed, we may not be able to completely execute our business plan and may not be able to continue our operations without further reducing expenses.. 20. Table of Contents. If we incur additional indebtedness through arrangements such as credit agreements or term loans, such arrangements may impose restrictions and covenants that limit our ability to respond appropriately to market conditions, make capital investments or take advantage of business opportunities. In addition, any additional debt arrangements we may enter into would likely require us to make regular interest payments, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. Manufacturing problems could impact manufacturing yields or result in delays in product shipments to customers and could adversely affect our revenue, competitive position and reputation.. We may experience delays, disruptions or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations or supply chain constraints, which could adversely impact manufacturing volumes, yields or delay product shipments. As a result, we could incur additional costs that would adversely affect our gross margin, and product shipments to our customers could be delayed beyond the shipment schedules requested by our customers, which would negatively affect our revenue, competitive position and reputation.. Additionally, manufacturing yields depend on a number of factors, including the stability and manufacturability of the product design, manufacturing improvements gained over cumulative production volumes, the quality and consistency of component parts and the nature and extent of customization requirements by customers. Capacity constraints, raw materials shortages, logistics issues, labor shortages, volatility in utilization of manufacturing operations, supporting utility services and other manufacturing supplies, the introduction of new product lines, rapid increases in production demands and changes in customer requirements, manufacturing facilities or processes, or those of some third party contract manufacturers and suppliers of raw materials and components have historically caused, and may in the future cause, reduced manufacturing yields, negatively impacting the gross margin on, and our production capacity for, those products. Our ability to maintain sufficient manufacturing yields is particularly challenging with respect to PICs due to the complexity and required precision of a large number of unique manufacturing process steps. Manufacturing yields for PICs can also suffer if contaminated materials or materials that do not meet highly precise composition requirements are inadvertently utilized. Because a large portion of our PIC manufacturing costs are fixed, PIC manufacturing yields have a substantial effect on our gross margin. Lower than expected manufacturing yields could also delay product shipments and decrease our revenue.. Customer demand is difficult to accurately forecast and, as a result, we may be unable to optimally match production with customer demand.. We make planning and spending decisions based on our estimates of customer requirements. The short-term nature of commitments by many of our customers, and the possibility of unexpected changes in demand for their products, reduce our ability to accurately estimate future customer requirements. In 2016 and 2017, we incurred substantial capital expenditures to increase manufacturing capacity in response to strong customer demand in 2016 (particularly in China) and in expectation of continued strong demand in 2017. However, tender awards from the China telecom carriers and spending under the China Broadband 2020 and related initiatives was slower in 2017 than anticipated, and our leading customers in China have accumulated excess inventory during 2016, which resulted in decreased customer demand and underutilization of certain of our manufacturing operations. Because many of our costs and operating expenses are relatively fixed, reduction in customer demand due to market downturns or other reasons would have a material adverse effect on our operating results, as occurred in 2017.. On the other hand, on occasion, customers may require rapid increases in production, which can strain our resources, cause our manufacturing to be negatively impacted by materials shortages, necessitate higher or more restrictive procurement commitments, increase our manufacturing yield loss and scrapping of excess materials, result in delayed shipments and/or reduce our gross margins. We may not have sufficient capacity at any given time to meet the volume demands of our customers, and we may have difficulty expanding our manufacturing operations on a timely basis to meet increasing customer demand. Additionally, one or more of our suppliers may not have sufficient capacity at any given time to meet our volume demands. Any inability to meet customer demands for rapid increases in production in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We are under continuous pressure to reduce the prices of our products, which has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our gross margins.. The communications networks industry has been characterized by declining product prices over time as technological advances increase price and performance and put pressure on existing products. We have reduced the prices of many of our products in the past, most often during annual end-of-year price negotiation. We expect pricing pressure for our products to continue, including from our major customers. To maintain or increase their market share, our competitors also reduce prices of their products each year. In addition, our customers may seek to internally develop and manufacture competing products at a lower cost than we would otherwise charge, which would add additional pressure on us to lower our selling prices. If we are. 21. Table of Contents. unable to offset any future reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volume, reducing our costs or introducing new products, our gross margin would be adversely affected.. We depend upon outside contract manufacturers for a portion of the manufacturing process for some of our products. Our operations and revenue related to these products could be adversely affected if we encounter problems with any such contract manufacturer.. While the majority of our products are manufactured internally, we also rely upon contract manufacturers in Thailand, China, Japan and other Asia locations to provide back-end manufacturing and production of some of our products. Our reliance on contract manufacturers for some of our products makes us vulnerable to possible production capacity constraints, reduced control over their supply chains, delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, manufacturing quality/controls and costs. If one of our contract manufacturers is unable to meet all of our customer demand in a timely fashion, whether due to their direct operating control or due to their supply chain, this could have a material adverse effect on the revenue from our products.. If the Metro and data center interconnect market sectors do not grow as rapidly as we expect, or if demand for our products in these sectors is lower than we expect, our revenue growth may be adversely affected.. We expect that our future growth in the market for 100G and beyond coherent products to be driven in large part by the increased adoption of our products in the Metro market segment and in the high-performance data center interconnect market. Over the last several years, 100G and beyond coherent technology has seen increasing adoption in the Long Haul market segment and now is penetrating the much larger Metro sector of the market.. If we fail to achieve or sustain a leadership position in the Long Haul telecom sector and use our position in that market to penetrate the Metro and data center interconnect segments, if these segments fail to grow as expected, or if demand for our products in the Metro and data center interconnect market segments fails to materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects would suffer.. We face intense competition which could negatively impact our results of operations and market share.. The communications networks industry is highly competitive. Our competitors range from large international companies offering a wide range of products to smaller companies specializing in niche products.. Some of our competitors have substantially greater name recognition, technical, financial, and marketing resources, and greater manufacturing capacity, as well as better-established relationships with customers, than we do. Some of our competitors have more resources to develop or acquire, and more experience in developing or acquiring, new products and technologies. Some of our competitors may be able to develop new products more quickly than us and may be able to develop products that are more reliable or which provide more functionality than ours. In addition, some of our competitors have the financial resources to offer competitive products at below-market pricing levels that could prevent us from competing effectively and result in a loss of sales or market share or cause us to lower prices for our products.. We also face competition from some of our customers who evaluate our capabilities against the merits of manufacturing products internally, including Huawei. Due to the fact that such customers are not seeking to make a comparable profit directly from the manufacture of these products, they may have the ability to provide competitive products at a lower total cost than we would charge such customers. As a result, these customers may purchase less of our products and there would be additional pressure to lower our selling prices which, accordingly, would negatively impact our revenue and gross margin.. The Chinese Government Ministry of Industry and Information Technology has announced a five-year optical component technology roadmap with the aim to reduce China's dependency on non-domestic companies for high-end optical chips and sub-components, including some products manufactured and sold by us.  This announcement continues an ongoing trend in China to build domestic industry in this area, and, while we believe local Chinese component suppliers do not currently have the capability to supply the highest performance optical chips and sub-components, those companies may over time develop such capability and negatively impact our revenue and financial performance if we do not continue to innovate and maintain our lead in the highest speed and performance optical components.. If we fail to retain our key personnel or if we fail to attract additional qualified personnel, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated growth and our business could suffer.. Our success and ability to implement our business strategy depends upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and others, including senior management in foreign subsidiaries and our technical and operations employees in all locations. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel, including our senior management and others. The loss of services of members of our senior management team or key personnel or the inability to. 22. Table of Contents. continue to attract and retain qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Competition for highly skilled technical and operations people where we operate is extremely intense, and we continue to face challenges identifying, hiring and retaining qualified personnel in many areas of our business.. The majority of our customer contracts do not commit customers to specified buying levels, and many of our customers may decrease, cancel or delay their buying levels at any time with little or no advance notice to us.. Our products are typically sold pursuant to individual purchase orders or by use of a vendor-managed inventory, or VMI, model, which is a process by which we ship agreed quantities of products to a customer-designated location and those products remain our inventory and we retain the title and risk of loss for those products until the customer takes possession of the products. Our customers are typically not contractually committed to buy any quantity of products beyond firm purchase orders. Many of our customers may increase, decrease, cancel or delay purchase orders already in place. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience wide fluctuations in demand from customers using VMI, particularly Huawei and its affiliate HiSilicon Technologies Co., Ltd., even in instances where we have built and shipped products to the customer-designated locations as VMI.. If we fail to adequately manage our long-term growth and expansion, our business and financial results will suffer.. Until 2017, we experienced significant growth over several years through, among other things, internal manufacturing and related expansion programs, product development and acquisitions of other businesses and products. Our business expanded to numerous locations, including foreign locations, and as a result became more complex, more demanding of management's attention and subject to new laws and regulations.. Our success and ability to further scale our business will depend, in part, on our ability to manage changes in a cost-effective and efficient manner. If we cannot manage any future growth, we may be unable to take advantage of market opportunities, execute our business strategies or respond to competitive pressures. Any failure to effectively manage growth, maintain our quality and/or or customer satisfaction could adversely affect our business and reputation.. Our success will depend on our ability to anticipate and quickly respond to evolving technologies and customer requirements.. Our ability to anticipate and respond to evolving technology, industry standards, customer requirements and product offerings, and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products and technologies, will be critical factors in our ability to succeed. In addition, the introduction of new products by other companies embodying new technologies, or the emergence of new industry standards, could render our existing products uncompetitive from a pricing standpoint, obsolete or otherwise unmarketable.. While we rely on many suppliers, there are a few which, if they stopped, decreased or delayed shipments to us, it could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results.. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for certain components and materials we have qualified to use in the manufacture of certain of our products. Some of these suppliers could disrupt our business if they stop, decrease or delay shipments or if the components they ship have quality, consistency, or business continuity issues. Some of these components and materials are available only from a sole source, or have been qualified only from a single source. We may also face component shortages if we experience increased demand for components beyond what our qualified suppliers can deliver. If we experience component shortages from certain key suppliers, we may be unable to meet customer demand or may have higher purchasing costs, or both. Although we engage in various actions to mitigate the impact of these shortages, any inability on our part to obtain sufficient quantities of critical components at reasonable costs could adversely affect our ability to meet demand for our products, which could cause our revenue, results of operations, or both to suffer.. Our customers generally restrict our ability to change the component parts in our modules without their approval and such changes may require repeating product qualification processes. The reliance on a sole supplier, single qualified vendor or limited number of suppliers could result in delivery and quality problems, reduced control over product pricing, reliability and performance and an inability to identify and qualify another supplier in a timely manner. Any supply deficiencies relating to the quality, quantities or timeliness of delivery of components that we use to manufacture our products could adversely affect our ability to fulfill our customer orders and our results of operations.. We must continually achieve new design wins and enhance existing products or our business and future revenue may be harmed.. The markets for our products are characterized by frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards, all with an underlying pressure to reduce cost and meet stringent reliability and. 23. Table of Contents. qualification requirements. Our future performance will depend on our successful development, introduction and market acceptance of new and enhanced products that address these challenges. The anticipated or actual introduction of new and enhanced products by us and by our competitors may cause our customers to defer or cancel orders for our existing products, and could result, and in the past, has resulted, in a write-down in the value of inventory. To the extent customers defer or cancel orders for our products for any reason or we fail to achieve new design wins, our competitive position would be adversely affected and our ability to grow revenue would be impaired.. Furthermore, fast time-to-market with new products can be critical to success in our markets. It is difficult to displace an existing supplier for a particular type of product once a network equipment vendor has chosen a supplier, even if a later-to-market product provides superior performance or cost efficiency. If we are unable to make our new or enhanced products commercially available on a timely basis, we may lose existing and potential customers and our financial results would suffer.. We may be exposed to costs or losses from product lines that we intend to exit or may undertake divestiture of portions of our business that require us to continue providing substantial post-divestiture transition services and support, which may cause us to incur unanticipated costs and liabilities and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We have a strategy to exit products that have been declining in revenue and have lower gross margins than our other higher speed products. For instance, in January 2017, we completed the sale of assets and transfer of certain liabilities of our access network and low speed transceiver product lines (the \"Low Speed Transceiver Products\"). We may incur additional costs in connection with the sale or end-of-life of these products, or other products and/or facilities in the future, and our revenues and net income could be negatively affected, particularly in the short term, in connection with the end-of-life or sales of such products and/or facilities. It is also possible that we could incur continued costs or liabilities after the end-of-life process is completed, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results.. We are subject to the cyclical nature of the markets in which we compete and any future downturn may reduce demand for our products and revenue.. The markets in which we compete are tied to the aggregate capital expenditures of telecommunications service providers as they build out and upgrade their network infrastructure. These markets may be cyclical and characterized by rapid technological change, price erosion, evolving standards and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. In the past, including recently to varying degrees in China, the U.S. and Europe, these markets have experienced significant downturns, often connected with, or in anticipation of, the maturation of product cycles - for both manufacturers' and their customers' products - or in response to over or under purchasing of inventory by our customers relative to ultimate carrier demand, and with declining general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices.. Our historical results of operations have been subject to substantial fluctuations, and we may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in future results of operations.. If spending for communications networks does not continue to grow as expected, our business and financial results may suffer.. Our future success as a provider of components, modules and subsystems to leading network equipment vendors depends on continued capital spending on global communications networks. Network traffic has experienced rapid growth driven primarily by bandwidth-intensive content, including cloud services, mobile video and data services, wireless 4G/LTE and 5G services, social networking, video conferencing and other multimedia. This growth is intensified by the proliferation of fixed and wireless devices that are enabling consumers to access content at increasing data rates anytime and anywhere. Our future success depends on continued demand for high-bandwidth, high-speed communications networks and the ability of network equipment vendors and carrier data center operators to fulfill this demand. In 2017, this growth slowed, primarily due to soft demand and high inventory levels in China, which adversely affected our business and financial condition in 2017. While we believe the long term prospects for growth in data traffic remain strong, our business and financial results will suffer if growth does not occur as expected.. We face a variety of risks associated with international sales and operations, which if not adequately managed could adversely affect our business and financial results.. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenue from international sales in various markets. In addition, a major portion of our operations are based in Shenzhen and Dongguan, China and we have additional operations in Japan, Russia and Canada. Our international revenue and operations are subject to a number of material risks, including, but not limited to:. • difficulties in staffing, managing and supporting operations in more than one country;. 24. Table of Contents. • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems;. • fewer legal protections for intellectual property in foreign jurisdictions;. • the need for compliance with local laws and regulations;. • foreign and U.S. taxation issues and international trade barriers;. • general economic and political conditions in the markets in which we operate;. • difficulties in obtaining any necessary governmental authorizations for the export of our products to certain foreign jurisdictions;. • imposition of export restrictions on sales to any of our major foreign customers;. • fluctuations in foreign economies and fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies and interest rates;. • trade and travel restrictions;. • outbreaks of contagious disease;. • domestic and international economic or political changes, hostilities and other disruptions; and. • difficulties and increased expenses in complying with a variety of U.S. and foreign laws, regulations and trade standards, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and international labor standards. Negative developments in any of these areas in China, Japan, Russia or other countries could result in a reduction in demand for our products, the cancellation or delay of orders already placed, difficulties in producing and delivering our products, threats to our intellectual property, difficulty in collecting receivables, higher labor costs and a higher cost of doing business.. In addition, although we maintain an anti-corruption compliance program throughout our company, violations of our compliance program may result in criminal or civil sanctions, including material monetary fines, penalties and other costs against us or our employees, and may have a material adverse effect on our business.. Failure to realize the anticipated benefits from our business in the Russian Federation may affect our future results of operations and financial condition.. In connection with our raising capital in an April 2012 private placement of common stock, we established a wholly-owned subsidiary and company operations in the Russian Federation and we committed to make substantial investments in our Russian operations over a period of several years. We could be required to pay up to $2.0 million to Joint Stock Company \"RUSNANO\", or Rusnano, at the time if we do not meet certain investment conditions towards our Russian operations by 2019.. The establishment of successful operations in the Russian Federation requires substantial capital expenditure, and is in part dependent on the cooperation of Russian entities that could include the Russia government and other third parties. We are also subject to economic, political, legal, and social events and developments in Russia, including but not limited to actions such as restrictions placed on U.S. companies doing business in Russia. If there are delays in our efforts to establish and maintain operations in the Russian Federation, the anticipated benefits of our Russian expansion may not be realized or may take longer to realize than expected.. Our revenues and costs will fluctuate over time, making it difficult to predict our future results of operations.. Our revenue, gross margin and results of operations have varied significantly and are likely to continue to vary from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. For instance, changes in gross margin may result from various factors, such as changes in pricing, changes in our fixed costs, changes in the cost of labor, changes in the mix of our products sold, changes in the amount of product manufactured versus the amount of product sold over time, and charges for excess and obsolete inventory. In addition, our first quarter revenue is generally seasonally lower than the rest of the year primarily due to lower capacity utilization during the holidays in China and the impact of typical price negotiations during the fourth quarter. It is difficult for us to accurately forecast our future revenue and gross margin and plan expenses accordingly and, therefore, it is difficult for us to predict our future results of operations.. Increasing costs and other factors may adversely impact our gross margins.. We may not be able to maintain or improve our gross margins because of slow introductions of new products, pricing pressure from increased competition, failure to effectively reduce the cost of existing products, failure to improve our product mix, future macroeconomic or market volatility reducing sales volumes, changes in customer demand (including a change in product mix among different areas of our business) or other factors. Our gross margins can also be adversely affected for reasons including, but not limited to, fixed manufacturing costs that would not be expected to decrease in proportion to any decrease in revenues; unfavorable production yields or variances; increases in costs of input parts and materials; the timing of movements in our inventory balances; warranty costs and related returns; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; possible exposure to inventory valuation reserves; and other increases in our costs and expenses, including as a result of rising labor. 25. Table of Contents. costs in China.  Such significant increases in costs without corresponding increases in revenue would materially and adversely affect our business, our results of operations and our financial condition and our gross margins.. If our customers do not qualify our products for use, then our results of operations may suffer.. Prior to placing volume purchase orders with us, most of our customers require us to obtain their approval - called qualification in our industry - of our new and existing products, and our customers often audit our manufacturing facilities and perform other vendor evaluations during this process. The qualification process involves product sampling and reliability testing and collaboration with our product management and engineering teams in the design and manufacturing stages. If we are unable to qualify our products with customers, then our revenue would be lower than expected and we may not be able to recover the costs associated with the qualification process which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. In addition, due to evolving technological changes in our markets, a customer may cancel or modify a design project before we have qualified our product or begun volume manufacturing of a qualified product. It is unlikely that we would be able to recover the expenses for cancelled or unutilized custom design projects.. Potential changes in our effective tax rate could negatively affect our future results.. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S., China, Japan and other foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of expenses in differing jurisdictions. Our tax rate is affected by changes in the mix of earnings and losses in countries with differing statutory tax rates, certain non-deductible expenses and the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, including our ability to utilize our net operating losses. Increases in our effective tax rate could negatively affect our results of operations.. We may be involved in intellectual property disputes, which could divert management's attention, cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from selling or using the challenged technology.. Participants in the markets in which we sell our products have experienced frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Numerous patents in these industries are held by others, including our competitors. In addition, from time to time, we have been notified that we may be infringing certain patents or other intellectual property rights of others. Regardless of their merit, responding to such claims can be time consuming, divert management's attention and resources and may cause us to incur significant expenses. In addition, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us, whether or not such claims are valid. While we believe that our products do not infringe in any material respect upon intellectual property rights of other parties and/or meritorious defense would exist with respect to any assertions to the contrary, we cannot be certain that our products would not be found infringing the intellectual property rights of others.. In January 2010, Finisar Corporation, or Finisar, filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California against us and three other co-defendants. In the complaint, Finisar alleged infringement of certain of its U.S. patents arising from the co-defendants' respective manufacture, importation, use, sale of or offer to sell certain optical transceiver products in the U.S. In March 2010, we filed an answer to the complaint and counterclaims, asserting two claims of patent infringement and additional claims asserting that Finisar has violated state and federal competition laws and violated its obligations to license on reasonable and non-discriminatory terms. In May 2010, the Court dismissed without prejudice all co-defendants (including us) except Source Photonics, Inc., on grounds that such claims should have been asserted in four separate lawsuits, one against each co-defendant. This dismissal without prejudice does not prevent Finisar from bringing a new similar lawsuit against us. In May 2012, we and Finisar agreed to toll our respective claims until the refiling of certain of the previously asserted claims from this dispute. As a result, Finisar is permitted to bring a new lawsuit against us if it chooses to do so, and we may bring new claims against Finisar upon seven days written notice prior to filing such claims.. Although we believe that we would have meritorious defenses to the infringement allegations and intend to defend any new similar lawsuit vigorously, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our defense. Even if we are successful, we may incur substantial legal fees and other costs in defending the lawsuit. Further, a new lawsuit, if brought by either party, would be likely to divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel, which could harm our business.. We have pursued and may continue to pursue acquisitions. Acquisitions could be difficult to integrate, divert the attention of key personnel, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and impair our financial results.. As part of our business strategy, we have pursued and intend to continue to pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses, products, services or technologies that we believe could accelerate our ability to compete in our existing markets or allow us to enter new markets. Any of these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. For instance, in October 2011, we completed the acquisition of Santur Corporation, a designer and manufacturer of InP-based. 26. Table of Contents. PIC products, and in March 2013 we completed the acquisition of the optical semiconductor business unit of LAPIS Semiconductor Co., Ltd., now known as NeoPhotonics Semiconductor. We purchased the tunable laser product lines of EMCORE in January 2015 and the power monitoring products business of EigenLight Corporation, or Eigenlight, in November 2015.. Acquisitions involve numerous risks. The failure to successfully evaluate and execute acquisitions or otherwise adequately address such risks could result in excess costs and materially harm our business and financial results.. Acquisitions also frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets which are subject to potential impairments which have occurred in the past and which, were they to occur in the future, could harm our financial results.. It could be discovered that our products contain defects that may cause us to incur significant costs, divert our attention, result in a loss of customers and result in product liability claims.. Our products are complex and undergo quality testing as well as formal qualification, both by our customers and by us. For various reasons, such as the occurrence of performance problems that are unforeseeable in testing or that are detected only when products age or are operated under peak stress conditions, our products may fail to perform as expected long after customer acceptance. Failures could result from faulty components or design, problems in manufacturing or other unforeseen reasons. As a result, we could incur significant costs to repair or replace defective products under warranty, particularly when such failures occur in installed systems. Any significant product failure could result in lost future sales of the affected product and other products, as well as customer relations problems and litigation, which could harm our business.. The communications networks industry has long product development cycles requiring us to incur product development costs without assurances of an acceptable investment return.. Large volumes of communications equipment and support structures are installed with considerable expenditures of funds and other resources, and long investment return period expectations. At the component supplier level, these cycles create considerable, typically multi-year, gaps between the commencement of new product development and volume purchases. Due to changing industry and customer requirements, we are constantly developing new products, including seeking to further integrate functions on PICs and developing and using new technologies in our products. These development activities necessitate significant investment of capital. Our new products often require a long time to develop because of their complexity and rigorous testing and qualification requirements. Accordingly, we and our competitors often incur significant research and development and sales and marketing costs for products that, initially, will be purchased by our customers long after much of the cost is incurred and, in some cases, may never be purchased due to changes in industry or customer requirements in the interim.. We are subject to global governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability, impair our ability to compete in international markets, or restrict our sales to certain customers.. We are subject to export and import control laws, trade regulations and other trade requirements that limit which products we sell and where and to whom we sell our products, especially laser-dependent products. In some cases, it is possible that export licenses would be required from the U.S. or other government agencies outside the U.S. such as, but not limited to, Japan, China or Russia for some of our products in accordance with various statutes. In addition, various countries regulate the export or import of certain technologies and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products. Failure to comply with these and similar laws on a timely basis, or at all, or any limitation on our ability to export or sell our products or to obtain any required licenses would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we fail to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, our business and results of operations could be materially harmed.. Our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret and unfair competition laws, as well as license agreements and other contractual provisions, to establish and protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. We have applied for patent registrations in the U.S. and in other foreign countries, some of which have been issued. We cannot guarantee that our pending applications will be approved by the applicable governmental authorities.. Policing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation, unauthorized use or other infringement of our intellectual property rights. Further, we may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights from misappropriation or other infringement in foreign countries where we have not applied for patent protections, and where effective patent, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual. 27. Table of Contents. property laws may be unavailable, or may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as U.S. or Japan law. Particularly, our U.S. patents do not afford any intellectual property protection in China, Japan, Canada or other Asia locations, including Russia, where we have company operations.. In the future, we may need to take legal actions to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property or from otherwise gaining access to our technology. Protecting and enforcing our intellectual property rights and determining their validity and scope could result in significant litigation costs and require significant time and attention from our technical and management personnel. If we fail to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, or if such intellectual property and proprietary rights are infringed or misappropriated, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially harmed.. If we fail to obtain the right to use the intellectual property rights of others which are necessary to operate our business, and to protect their intellectual property, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected.. From time to time we may choose to, or be required to, license technology or intellectual property from third parties in connection with the development of our products. Failure to obtain a necessary third-party license required for our product offerings or to develop new products and product enhancements could adversely affect our business.. Participation in standards setting organizations may subject us to intellectual property licensing requirements or limitations that could adversely affect our business and prospects.. In the course of our participation in the development of emerging standards for some of our present and future products, we may agree to grant to all other participants a license to our patents that are essential to the practice of those standards on reasonable and non-discriminatory, or RAND, terms. If we fail to limit to whom we license our patents, or fail to limit the terms of any such licenses, we may be required to license our patents or other intellectual property to others in the future, which could limit the effectiveness of our patents against competitors.. Any potential dispute involving our products, services or technology could also include our customers using our products, which could trigger our indemnification obligations to them and result in substantial expenses to us.. In any potential dispute involving allegations that our products, services or technology infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, our customers could also become the target of litigation. Because we often indemnify our customers for intellectual property claims made against them for products incorporating our technology, any claims against our customers could trigger indemnification obligations in some of our supply agreements, which could result in substantial expenses such as increased legal expenses, product recalls, damages for past infringement or royalties for future use.. Natural disasters, terrorist attacks or other catastrophic events could harm our operations and our financial results.. Our worldwide operations could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. For example, our corporate headquarters and wafer fabrication facility in Silicon Valley, California and our Tokyo, Japan facility are located near major earthquake fault lines, and our manufacturing facilities are located in Shenzhen and Dongguan, China, areas that are susceptible to typhoons. We are not insured against many natural disasters, including earthquakes.. Similarly, our worldwide operations could be subject to secondary effects of natural disasters, terrorist attacks or other catastrophic events. Even if our facilities are not directly affected, any of these types of events could substantially disrupt the business of our suppliers or customers, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. Rapidly changing standards and regulations could make our products obsolete, which would cause our revenue and results of operations to suffer.. We design our products to conform to regulations established by governments and to standards set by industry standards bodies worldwide, such as The American National Standards Institute, the European Telecommunications Standards Institute, the International Telecommunications Union and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers. Various industry organizations are currently considering whether and to what extent to create standards for elements used in 100Gbps and beyond systems. Because certain of our products are designed to conform to current specific industry standards, if competing or new standards emerge that are preferred by our customers, we would have to make significant expenditures to develop new products and our revenue and results of operations would suffer.. Our future results of operations may be subject to volatility as a result of exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, primarily the Chinese Renminbi (RMB) and Japanese Yen (JPY) exchange rates.. 28. Table of Contents. We are exposed to foreign exchange risks. Foreign currency fluctuations may adversely affect our revenue and our costs and expenses, and hence our results of operations. A substantial portion of our business is conducted through our subsidiaries based in China, whose functional currency is the RMB and Japan, whose functional currency is the JPY, and a smaller amount in Russian Rubles (RUB). The value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies and the value of the JPY and RUB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies fluctuate and are affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions.. To the extent that transactions by our subsidiaries in China and Japan are denominated in currencies other than the RMB and JPY, we bear the risk that fluctuations in the exchange rates of the RMB and JPY in relation to other currencies could decrease our revenue or increase our costs and expenses, therefore having an adverse effect on our future results of operations.. While we generate a significant portion of our revenue in U.S dollars, a significant portion of our cost of goods sold are in RMB and JPY. Therefore appreciation in RMB and JPY against the U.S. dollar would negatively impact our cost of goods sold upon translation to U.S. dollars.. We have entered into hedging transactions to reduce the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations. However, the availability and effectiveness of these hedging transactions may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure. In addition, our currency exchange variations may be magnified by Chinese exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into foreign currency.. We identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of 2016 which has been remediated as of December 31, 2017.. As part of our annual evaluation of internal controls for fiscal 2016, our management identified several deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting related to certain revenue cut-off procedures. These deficiencies aggregated to a material weakness in our controls over revenue cut-off procedures, which affected the timing of our revenue recognition. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. No actual material misstatements were identified for the year ended December 31, 2016.. In 2017, we completed implementation of a remediation plan designed to address this material weakness. Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that this material weakness had been remediated by the end of 2017 and that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2017. However, if material weaknesses in our internal controls are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results. For more information see \"Item 9A. Controls and Procedures\".. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be adversely affected.. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over our financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act.. Preparing our consolidated financial statements involves a number of complex manual and automated processes, which are dependent upon individual data input or review and require significant management judgment. One or more of these elements may result in errors that may not be detected and could result in a material misstatement of our consolidated financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, our business and operating results may be harmed and we may fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. If material weaknesses in our internal control are discovered or occur, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results.. Our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. Any failure of our internal controls could adversely affect the results of the periodic management evaluations and annual independent registered public accounting firm attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and results of operations could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock may decline.. 29. Table of Contents. We may be subject to disruptions or failures in information technology systems and network infrastructures that could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. We rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and network infrastructures to operate our business. A disruption, infiltration or failure of our information technology systems as a result of software or hardware malfunctions, system implementations or upgrades, computer viruses, cyber-attacks, third-party security breaches, employee error, theft or misuse, malfeasance, power disruptions, natural disasters or accidents could cause breaches of data security, loss of intellectual property and critical data and the release and misappropriation of sensitive competitive information and partner, customer and employee personal data. Any of these events could harm our competitive position, result in a loss of customer confidence, cause us to incur significant costs to remedy any damages and ultimately materially adversely affect our business and financial condition.. Covenants in our borrowing arrangements may limit our flexibility in responding to business opportunities and competitive developments and increase our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions.. We have lending arrangements with several financial institutions, which generally require us to maintain certain financial covenants and limit our ability to take certain actions such as incurring some kinds of additional debt, paying dividends, or engaging in certain transactions like mergers and acquisitions, investments and asset sales without the lenders' consent. These restrictions may limit our flexibility in responding to business opportunities, competitive developments and adverse economic or industry conditions. In addition, a breach of any of these covenants, or a failure to pay interest or indebtedness when due under any of our credit facilities, could result in a variety of adverse consequences, including the acceleration of our indebtedness.. We may be unable to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards to reduce our income taxes, which could adversely affect our future financial results.. As of December 31, 2017, we had net operating loss, or NOL, carryforwards for U.S. federal and state tax purposes of $245.0 million and $52.0 million, respectively. As these net operating losses have not been utilized and may not be utilized prior to their expiration in the future. The utilization of the NOL and tax credit carryforwards are subject to a substantial limitation imposed by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, and similar state provisions. We recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, for the NOL carryforwards currently available after considering the existing Section 382 limitation. If we incur an additional limitation under Section 382, then the NOL carryforwards, as disclosed, could be reduced by the impact of any future limitation that would result in existing NOL carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards expiring unutilized and increases in future tax liabilities.. Comprehensive tax reform bills could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. The U.S. government recently enacted comprehensive tax legislation (the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, or Tax Reform Act) that includes significant changes to the taxation of business entities. These changes include, among others, (i) a permanent reduction to the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, (ii) a partial limitation on the deductibility of business interest expense, (iii) a shift of the U.S. taxation of multinational corporations from a tax on worldwide income to a territorial system (along with certain rules designed to prevent erosion of the U.S. income tax base) and (iv) a one-time tax on accumulated offshore earnings held in cash and illiquid assets, with the latter taxed at a lower rate.  On December 22, 2017, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB 118) which provides a measurement period of no more than a year from the Tax Act enactment date for companies to complete the accounting under Accounting Standards Codification 740 (ASC 740). Given our current taxable loss position, based on our preliminary analysis, we do not expect the new tax legislation to have a material cash tax impact on our business other than reducing the NOL carryforwards which is offset by a valuation allowance. However, due to the broad complexities of the Tax Reform Act, our ASC 740 accounting for the Tax Reform is still subject to change, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. We may utilize conflict minerals in our production or rely on suppliers who utilize conflict minerals in their production, and the use of such conflict minerals may negatively impact our results of operations.. Since 2013, we have been subject to reporting obligations for the use of conflict minerals originating in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries and subsequently have timely filed our conflict minerals reports with the SEC. If we fail to comply with these requirements, our operating results could be harmed.. In some instances, we rely on third-party sales representatives to assist in selling our products, and the failure of these representatives to perform as expected could reduce our future revenue.. 30. Table of Contents. Although we primarily sell our products through direct sales to systems vendors, we also sell our products to some of our customers through third-party sales representatives. Many of our third-party sales representatives also market and sell competing products from our competitors. Our third-party sales representatives may terminate their relationships with us at any time, or with short notice. Our future performance will also depend, in part, on our ability to attract additional third-party sales representatives that will be able to market and support our products effectively, especially in markets in which we have not previously distributed our products. If our third-party sales representatives fail to perform as expected or to operate their businesses effectively, our revenue and results of operations could be harmed.. We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, which could subject us to liabilities, increase our costs, or restrict our business or operations in the future.. Our manufacturing operations and our products are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and international environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate or sell our products. Our failure to comply with present and future environmental, health or safety requirements, or the identification of contamination, could cause us to incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, monetary fines, civil or criminal penalties, or curtailment of operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Additionally, increasing efforts to control emissions of greenhouse gases, or GHG, may also impact us. Additional climate change or GHG control requirements are under consideration at the federal level in the U.S. and in China. Additional restrictions, limits, taxes, or other controls on GHG emissions could increase our operating costs and, while it is not possible to estimate the specific impact any final GHG regulations will have on our operations, there can be no assurance that these measures will not have significant additional impact on us.. Risks Related to Our Operations in China. Our business operations conducted in China are critical to our success. A significant portion of our revenue was recognized from customers for whom we shipped products to a location in China. Additionally, a substantial portion of our net property, plant and equipment, approximately 29% as of December 31, 2017, was located in China. We expect to make further investments in China in the foreseeable future. Therefore, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are to a significant degree subject to economic, political, legal, and social events and developments in China.. Adverse changes in economic and political policies in China, or Chinese laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on business conditions and the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business.. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the level of government involvement, level of development, growth rate and control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Despite reforms, the government continues to exercise significant control over China's economic growth by way of the allocation of resources, control over foreign currency-denominated obligations and monetary policy and provision of preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Moreover, the laws, regulations and legal requirements in China, including the laws that apply to foreign-invested enterprises are relatively new and are subject to frequent changes. The interpretation and enforcement of such laws is uncertain. Any adverse changes to these laws, regulations and legal requirements, including tax laws, or their interpretation or enforcement, or the creation of new laws or regulations relating to our business, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Furthermore, any slowdown or economic downturn, whether actual or perceived, in China could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation.. A considerable portion of our business involves selling High Speed optical components in China and any move to local Chinese vendors for these products might adversely affect our results.. The Chinese Government Ministry of Industry and Information Technology has announced a five-year optical component technology roadmap with the aim to reduce China's dependency on non-domestic companies for high-end optical chips and sub-components, including some products manufactured and sold by us.  This announcement continues an ongoing trend in China to build domestic industry in this area, and, while we believe local Chinese component suppliers do not currently have the capability to supply the highest performance optical chips and sub-components, those companies may over time develop such capability and negatively impact our revenue and financial performance if we do not continue to innovate and maintain our lead in the highest speed and performance optical components.. 31. Table of Contents. Our subsidiaries in China may be subject to restrictions on dividend payments, on making other payments to us or any other affiliated company, and on borrowing or allocating tax losses among our subsidiaries.. Current Chinese regulations permit our subsidiaries in China to pay dividends only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations, which are different than U.S. accounting standards and regulations. In addition, our subsidiaries in China are required to set aside at least 10% of their respective accumulated profits each year, if any, to fund their statutory common reserves until such reserves have reached at least 50% of their respective registered capital, as well as to allocate a discretional portion of their after-tax profits to their staff welfare and bonus fund. As of December 31, 2017, our Chinese subsidiaries' common reserves had not reached this threshold and, accordingly, these entities are required to continue funding such reserves with accumulated net profits. Accordingly, we may not be able to move our capital easily, which could harm our business.. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenue and cash effectively.. Because a portion of our revenue is denominated in RMB, any restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to use revenue generated in RMB to fund any business activities we may have outside China or to make dividend payments in U.S. dollars. Under relevant Chinese rules and regulations, the RMB is convertible under the \"current account,\" which includes dividends, trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the \"capital account,\" which includes foreign direct investment and loans, without the prior approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE. We cannot be certain that Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the RMB, especially with respect to foreign exchange transactions. If such restrictions are imposed, our ability to adjust our capital structure or engage in foreign exchange transactions may be limited.. Uncertainties with respect to China's legal system could adversely affect the legal protection available to us.. Our operations in China are governed by Chinese laws and regulations. Our subsidiaries in China are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. China's legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a legal system where decided legal cases have limited value as precedents. However, China has not developed a fully-integrated legal system, and recently-enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. Uncertainties in the Chinese legal system may impede our ability to enforce the contracts we have entered into with our distributors, business partners, customers and suppliers. In addition, protections of intellectual property rights and confidentiality in China may not be as effective as in the U.S. or other countries or regions with more developed legal systems. All of these uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and could materially and adversely affect our business and operations.. If the Chinese government determines that we failed to obtain approvals of, or registrations with, the requisite Chinese regulatory authority with respect to our current and past import and export of technologies, or failed to obtain the necessary licenses to file patent applications outside China for inventions made in China, we could be subject to sanctions, which could adversely affect our business.. China imposes controls on technology import and export. The term \"technology import and export\" is broadly defined to include, without limitation, the transfer or license of patents, software and know-how, and the provision of services in relation to technology. Depending on the nature of the relevant technology, the import and export of technology to or from China requires either approval by or registration with, the relevant Chinese governmental authorities. Additionally, the Chinese government requires the patent application for any invention made at least in part in China to be filed first in China, then undergo a government secrecy review and obtain a license before such application is filed in other countries.. If the Chinese government determines that we failed to obtain follow required procedures and obtain the appropriate license before filing a patent application outside China for an invention made at least in part in China, our China patents on such products may be invalidated, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business and operations.. China regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to China entities may delay or prevent us from using our cash proceeds to make loans or additional capital contributions to our China subsidiaries.. From time to time, we may make loans or additional capital contributions to our China subsidiaries. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these government registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to our future loans or capital contributions to our China subsidiaries. If we fail to receive such registrations or approvals, our ability to capitalize our China subsidiaries may be negatively affected, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and ability to fund and expand our business.. Dividends paid to us by our Chinese subsidiaries may be subject to Chinese withholding tax.. 32. Table of Contents. The EIT Law and the implementation regulations provide that a 10% withholding tax may apply to dividends payable to investors that are \"non-resident enterprises,\" to the extent such dividends are derived from sources within China and in the absence of any tax treaty that may reduce such withholding tax rate.. Our contractual arrangements with our subsidiaries in China may be subject to audit or challenge by the Chinese tax authorities, and a finding that our subsidiaries in China owe additional taxes could substantially reduce our net income and the value of our stockholders' investment.. Under the applicable laws and regulations in China, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the Chinese tax authorities. We would be subject to adverse tax consequences if the Chinese tax authorities were to determine that the contracts with or between our subsidiaries were not executed on an arm's length basis, and as a result the Chinese tax authorities could require that our Chinese subsidiaries adjust their taxable income upward for Chinese tax purposes. Such an adjustment could adversely affect us by increasing our tax expenses.. We may have difficulty maintaining adequate management, legal and financial controls in China, which we are required to do in order to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and securities laws, and which could cause a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements, the trading price of our common stock and our business.. Chinese companies have historically not adopted a western style of management and financial reporting concepts and practices, which includes strong corporate governance, internal controls and computer, financial and other control systems. Most of our middle management staff in China are not educated in the western system, and we may have difficulty hiring new employees in China with experience and expertise relating to accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. and U.S. public-company reporting requirements. These issues could make it more difficult for us to establish and maintain adequate internal control over our financial reporting, which could then result in errors that could cause a material misstatement of our consolidated financial statements.. We may be exposed to liabilities under the FCPA and Chinese anti-corruption laws, and any determination that we violated these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, or FCPA, and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. persons and issuers as defined by the statute, for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations, agreements with third parties and we make significant sales in China. China also strictly prohibits bribery of government officials. Our activities in China create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors, even though they may not always be subject to our control. Although we have implemented policies and procedures to discourage these practices by our employees, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA or anti-corruption laws in other countries may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. Our stock price may be volatile due to fluctuation of our financial results from quarter-to-quarter and other factors.. Our quarterly revenue and results of operations have varied in the past and may continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. This variability may lead to volatility in our stock price as research analysts and investors respond to these quarterly fluctuations. These fluctuations are due to numerous factors, including:. • fluctuations in demand for our products;. • the timing, size and product mix of sales of our products;. • changes in our pricing and sales policies, particularly in the first quarter of the year, or changes in the pricing and sales policies of our competitors;. • our ability to design, manufacture and deliver products to our customers in a timely and cost-effective manner and that meet customer requirements;. • quality control or yield problems in our manufacturing operations;. • our ability to timely obtain adequate quantities of the components used in our products;. 33. Table of Contents. • length and variability of the sales cycles of our products;. • unanticipated increases in costs or expenses; and. • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.. The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these, as well as other factors, could materially adversely affect our quarterly and annual results of operations in the future. In addition, a significant amount of our operating expenses is relatively fixed in nature due to our internal manufacturing, research and development, sales and general administrative efforts. Any failure to adjust spending quickly enough to compensate for a revenue shortfall could magnify the adverse impact of such revenue shortfall on our results of operations. Moreover, our results of operations may not meet our announced financial outlook or the expectations of research analysts or investors, in which case the price of our common stock could decrease significantly. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully address these risks.. The market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other things, the risk factors described in this section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and other factors beyond our control, such as fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us.. The stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, sovereign debt or liquidity issues, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively affect the market price of our common stock.. In the past, many companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may become the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business.. The concentration of our capital stock ownership with our principal stockholders, executive officers and directors and their affiliates may limit other stockholders' ability to influence corporate matters.. As of December 31, 2017, our executive officers and directors, and entities that are affiliated with them or that have a right to designate a director, beneficially own an aggregate of approximately 47% of our outstanding common stock. This significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. Also, as a result, these stockholders, acting together, may be able to control our management and affairs and matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions.. Our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent a takeover that stockholders consider favorable and could also reduce the market price of our stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. These provisions could also make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions include:. •providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms;. •not providing for cumulative voting in the election of directors;. •authorizing our board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock rights senior to those of common stock;. •prohibiting stockholder action by written consent;. •limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; and. •requiring advance notification of stockholder nominations and proposals.. In addition, we have been governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporate Law since the completion of our initial public offering. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding common stock, from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of substantially all of our stockholders for a certain period of time.. These and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts, reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay. 34. Table of Contents. for shares of our common stock in the future and result in the market price being lower than it would be without these provisions."
