[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Report, including “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and our consolidated financial statements and related notes, as well as the preceding “Business” section of this Report, before engaging in any transaction in our securities. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects, and cause the value of our securities to decline, which could cause you to lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Business:. Our financial condition creates doubt whether we will continue as a going concern. If we do not continue as a going concern, investors may lose their entire investment.. Since our inception, we have incurred significant operating losses, and, as of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $51.3 million and a working capital deficit of approximately $2.5 million. We incurred losses totaling $24.9 million and $3.1 million for the 12 months ended December 31, 2011 and the nine months ended December 31, 2010, respectively. While we believe we have sufficient capital resources to fund our current operations through the end of May 2012, we will require additional capital to develop our business operations. We have historically been dependent upon TGR Capital, LLC, Enerfund, LLC and our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mike Zoi (as a result of his controlling interests in TGR Capital, LLC and Enerfund, LLC), to fund our operations and we are exploring additional sources of financing in order to meet our financial requirements. As of the date this Report was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, management expects that our cash flows from operations and remaining proceeds from a $2 million investment in the Company by Kenges Rakishev, which closed on February 23, 2012 (see “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Part II, Item 7 of this Report), will be sufficient to meet our financial requirements through the end of May 2012. Management currently believes that we will require an additional $4 million in financing to continue operations as currently conducted and to pay for currently anticipated capital expenditures over the next 12 months. Additional funds may be raised through debt financing and/or the issuance of equity securities, there being no assurance that any type of financing on terms satisfactory to us will be available or otherwise occur. Debt financing must be repaid regardless of whether we generate revenues or cash flows from operations and may be secured by substantially all of our assets. Any equity financing or debt financing that requires the issuance of equity securities or warrants to the lender would cause the percentage ownership by our current stockholders to be diluted, which dilution may be substantial. Also, any additional equity securities issued may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. If such financings are not available when required or are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to implement our business plans or take advantage of business opportunities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects and may ultimately require us to suspend or cease operations, which could cause investors to lose the entire amount of their investment.. 12. We have a limited operating history upon which an evaluation of our prospects can be made. For that reason, it would be difficult for a potential investor to judge our prospects for success.. Since April 1, 2010, we have pursued a strategy to develop and acquire applications, services and technologies for use in our Internet media products and services. We completed our first significant acquisition in furtherance of that strategy on December 14, 2010. There can be no assurance that our future proposed operations will be implemented successfully or that we will ever have profits. If we are unable to successfully develop our operations, you may lose your entire investment. We face all the risks inherent in a new business, including the expenses, difficulties, complications and delays frequently encountered in connection with conducting operations, including the need for significant additional capital requirements and management’s potential underestimation of initial and ongoing costs. As a new business, we may encounter delays and other problems in connection with developing our Internet websites, technologies and operations. We also face the risk that we may not be able to effectively implement our business plans and strategies. In evaluating our business and prospects, these difficulties should be considered. If we are not effective in addressing these risks, we will not operate profitably and we may not have adequate working capital to meet our obligations as they come due.. Our management has identified continued material weaknesses in our internal controls as of December 31, 2011, which, if not properly remedied, could result in material misstatements in our financial statements.. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As further described in Item 9A of this Report, management has identified the following material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011: (i) inadequate written policies and procedures; (ii) inadequate segregation of duties related to job responsibilities for initiating, authorizing, and recording of certain transactions; (iii) we do not have a functioning audit committee; (iv) we have deficiencies in our testing of internal controls; (v) we have limited financial personnel, information technology infrastructure and other resources; and (vi) our management has limited ability to monitor the design and operating effectiveness of our internal controls. These material weaknesses impede the ability of management to implement remedial measures and oversee our internal control over financial reporting on a consistent basis. Management intends to focus its remediation efforts in the near term on installing a new financial system and documenting formal policies and procedures surrounding transaction processing, period-end account analyses and providing for additional review and monitoring procedures and periodically assess the need for additional accounting resources as the business develops and resources permit. If we are not able to adequately address the material weaknesses in our internal controls, it is possible that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be timely prevented or detected. Any failure in preventing or detecting a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial results could have a material adverse effect on our stock price and on our results of operations, could make it more difficult for us to obtain additional financing as needed and could have additional material adverse consequences.. We rely on traffic to our Internet websites from search engines like Google, Yahoo! and Bing. If our websites fails to rank prominently in unpaid search results, traffic to our websites could decline (or may not increase to the extent desired), which could adversely affect our business prospects.. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract users of our websites through unpaid Internet search results on search engines like Google, Yahoo! and Bing. The number of users we attract to our websites from search engines is due in large part to how and where our websites rank in unpaid search results. These rankings can be affected by a number of factors, many of which are not in our direct control, and they may change frequently. For example, a search engine may change its ranking algorithms, methodologies or design layouts. As a result, links to our websites may not be prominent enough to drive traffic to our websites, and we may not know how to, or otherwise be in a position to, influence the results. In some instances, search engine companies may change these rankings in order to promote their own competing products or services or the products or services of one or more of our competitors. Our websites have experienced fluctuations in search result rankings in the past, and we anticipate fluctuations in the future. Any reduction in the number of users directed to our websites (or failure to increase the number of users directed to our websites) could adversely affect our business prospects and results of operations.. 13. If we fail to generate and maintain sufficient high quality content on our websites, it may negatively affect the amount of traffic to our websites and, as a result, our revenue and business prospects.. Our success depends on our ability to provide consumers with high quality content on our websites. In addition, we may not be able to provide users the information they seek if the information on our websites is not up-to-date. If we are unable to provide consumers with the information they seek, or if they can find equivalent content on other websites or publications, they may stop or reduce their use of our websites or we may not be able to increase their use of our websites. If our user traffic declines, we may have more difficulty attracting third parties to advertise on our websites, which would negatively affect our revenue and business prospects.. If we fail to increase the number of advertisers on our websites, our revenue and business prospects will be harmed.. In the year ended December 31, 2011, substantially all of our revenues were generated by the sale of premium services (subscription and pay per view fees), licensing fees (primarily from Launchpad) and advertising. However, in the future, we plan to increasingly generate most of our revenues from advertising. As a result, our ability to grow our business depends on our ability to maintain and expand our base of viewers and advertisers on our websites. To do so, we must convince prospective advertisers of the benefits of our product and services offerings, including those who may not be familiar with our products or services. We must also convince existing and prospective advertisers alike that our advertising products and services will benefit them. Many of these businesses may be more accustomed to using more traditional methods of advertising, such as newspapers, magazines or print yellow pages directories. Failure to maintain and expand our base of advertisers on our websites could harm our revenue and business prospects.. We may experience attrition in our advertisers in the ordinary course of business resulting from several factors, including losses to competitors, lower priced competitors, perceptions that our advertising solutions are unnecessary or ineffective, declining advertising budgets, closures and bankruptcies. If our advertisers increase their rates of non-renewal or if we experience significant advertiser attrition or contract breach, or if we are unable to attract new advertisers in numbers greater than the number of advertisers that we lose, our client base will decrease and our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations would be negatively affected.. We expect to face increased competition in the market for attracting advertisers to our websites.. The market for attracting advertisers on Internet websites is intensely competitive and rapidly changing. With the ongoing emergence of new technologies and market entrants, competition is likely to intensify in the future. Our competitors include, among others, offline media companies and service providers; newspaper, television, and other media companies; Internet search engines, such as Google, Yahoo! and Bing; and various other online service providers. Our competitors may enjoy competitive advantages, such as greater name recognition, longer operating histories, substantially greater market share, larger existing user bases and substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. Our competitors may use these advantages to offer products or services similar to ours at a lower price, develop different products or services to compete with our current solutions and respond more quickly and effectively than we do to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or client requirements. In particular, major Internet companies, such as Amazon, Google, Facebook, Yahoo! and Microsoft may be more successful than us in developing and marketing online advertising offerings, and many of our advertisers and potential advertisers may choose to purchase online advertising services from these or other competitors and may reduce their purchases of our products and services. In addition, many of our current and potential competitors have established marketing relationships with and access to larger client bases. As the market for online advertising increases, new competitors, business models and solutions are likely to emerge. For all of these reasons, we may be unable to grow or maintain the number of businesses that use our advertising solutions, in which case our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations will be negatively affected.. If we fail to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, competitors may create and market products and services similar to ours. In addition, we may be subject to intellectual property litigation and infringement claims by third parties.. Our ability to compete effectively is dependent in part upon the proprietary nature of our technologies and software platform. We generally intend to rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright, trademark and patent law to protect our proprietary rights in our intellectual properties. We have applied for patents and we own trademarks through our wholly-owned subsidiary NetLab Systems IP LLC and certain of our operating subsidiaries have license arrangements to use those inventions, technologies and services. Although we attempt to protect our proprietary technologies through trade secrets, patents, trademarks and license and other agreements, these may be insufficient. In addition, if we license our software to non-U.S. countries, because of differences in foreign laws concerning proprietary rights, our intellectual properties may not receive the same degree of protection in non-U.S. countries as they would in the United States. Although our subsidiaries and other customers will utilize our proprietary software in object code form, no assurance can be given that unauthorized third parties will not be able to copy such software. We may not always be able to successfully protect or enforce our proprietary properties against competitors, which may materially adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that our competitors will not independently utilize existing technologies to develop products that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours, which also could materially adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. 14. In addition, although we do not believe that our intellectual properties infringe the rights of others and while to date we have not been subject to such claims, we may be exposed to, or threatened with, future litigation by other parties alleging that our technologies infringe their intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property claims, regardless of their merit, could be time consuming, expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management resources and attention. An adverse determination in any intellectual property claim could require us to pay damages and/or stop using our technologies and other material found to be in violation of another party’s rights and could prevent us from licensing our technologies to others. In order to avoid these restrictions, we may have to seek a license. Such a license may not be available on reasonable terms, could require us to pay significant license fees and may significantly increase our operating expenses. A license also may not be available to us at all. As a result, we may be required to use and/or develop non-infringing alternatives, which could require significant effort and expense. If we cannot obtain a license or develop alternatives for any infringing aspects of our business, we may be forced to limit our technologies and may be unable to compete effectively. Any of these adverse consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, from time to time we may be engaged in disputes regarding the licensing of our intellectual property rights, including matters related to the terms of our licensing arrangements. These types of disputes can be asserted by our licensees or prospective licensees or by other third parties as part of negotiations with us or in private actions seeking monetary damages or injunctive relief or in regulatory actions. Requests for monetary and injunctive remedies asserted in claims like these could be material and could have a significant impact on our business prospects. Any disputes with our licensees, potential licensees or other third parties could materially adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. Acquisition activities could result in operating difficulties, dilution to our stockholders and other harmful consequences.. We have built our current business primarily through acquisitions of intellectual property and other assets. We intend to selectively pursue strategic acquisitions in the future. Future acquisitions could divert management’s time and focus from operating our business. In addition, integrating an acquired company, business or technology is risky and may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Foreign acquisitions also involve unique risks related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries.. We may not accurately assess the value or prospects of acquisition candidates, and the anticipated benefits from our future or even past acquisitions may not materialize. In addition, future acquisitions or dispositions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, including our common stock, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could negatively affect our financial condition.. Poor perception of our brand, business or industry could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business is dependent on attracting a large number of visitors to our owned and operated websites, which depends in part on our reputation within the industry and with consumers. Because our business is transforming traditional content creation and distribution models and is therefore not easily understood by casual observers, our brand, business and reputation is vulnerable to poor perception. For example, perception that the quality of our content may not be the same or better than that of other published Internet content, even if baseless, can damage our reputation. We may be the subject of unflattering reports in blogs, video blogs and the media about our business and our model. While disruptive businesses are often criticized early on in their life cycles, we believe we are more frequently targeted than most because of the nature of the business we are disrupting—namely the traditional broadcast, print and publication media. Any damage to our reputation could harm our ability to attract and retain advertisers, customers and freelance content creators, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and business.. The expansion of our owned and operated websites into new areas of consumer interest, products, services and technologies subjects us to additional business, legal, financial and competitive risks.. An important element of our business strategy is to grow our network of owned and operated websites to cover new areas of consumer interest, expand into new business lines and develop additional services, products and technologies. In directing our focus into new areas, we face numerous risks and challenges, including increased capital requirements, long development cycles, new competitors and the requirement to develop new strategic relationships. We cannot assure you that our strategy will result in increased net revenues or net income. Furthermore, growth into new areas may require changes to our existing business model and cost structure, modifications to our infrastructure and exposure to new regulatory and legal risks, any of which may require expertise in areas in which we have little or no experience. If we cannot generate revenue as a result of our expansion into new areas that are greater than the cost of such expansion, our operating results could be adversely affected.. 15. We may not timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing technology and network infrastructure to ensure that our websites are accessible.. It is important to our success that users in all geographies be able to access our websites at all times. We have previously experienced, and may experience in the future, service disruptions, outages and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, capacity constraints due to an overwhelming number of users accessing our platform simultaneously, and denial of service or fraud or security attacks. In some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these performance problems within an acceptable period of time. It may become increasingly difficult to maintain and improve the availability of our websites, especially during peak usage times and as our solutions become more complex and our user traffic increases. If our websites are unavailable when users attempt to access them or they do not load as quickly as they expect, users may seek other services to obtain the information for which they are looking, and may not return to our websites as often in the future, or at all. This would negatively impact our ability to attract users and advertisers. We expect to continue to make significant investments to maintain and improve the availability of our websites and to enable rapid releases of new content and features. To the extent that we do not effectively address capacity constraints, upgrade our systems as needed and continually develop our technologies and network architecture to accommodate actual and anticipated changes in technology, our business prospects and operating results may be adversely affected.. Our business is subject to complex and evolving U.S. and foreign laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protection and other matters. Many of these laws and regulations are subject to change and uncertain interpretations, and could result in claims, changes to our business practices, increased cost of operations or declines in user growth or engagement, or otherwise harm our business.. We are subject to a number of foreign and domestic laws and regulations that affect companies conducting business on the Internet, many of which are still evolving and the interpretation of which are often uncertain. These existing and proposed laws and regulations can be costly to comply with and can delay or impede the development of new products, increase our operating costs, require significant management time and attention and subject us to claims or other remedies, including fines or demands that we modify or cease existing business practices, or could otherwise have an adverse impact on our business.. Our business is subject to the risks of hurricanes, floods, fires and other natural catastrophic events and to interruption by man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism.. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from hurricanes, floods, fires, power losses, telecommunications outages, terrorist attacks, acts of war, human errors, break-ins and similar events. Our U.S. corporate offices are located in Miami, Florida, which is an area that is at high risk of hurricane and flood damage. In addition, acts of terrorism, which may be targeted at metropolitan areas that have higher population density than rural areas, could cause disruptions in our business or the economy as a whole. The servers that we use through various third party service providers are not located in Miami, Florida but may also be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems, which could lead to interruptions, delays, loss of critical data or the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Such service providers may not have sufficient protection or recovery plans in certain circumstances, and our insurance may not be sufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. As we rely heavily on our servers, computer and communications systems and the Internet to conduct our business, such disruptions could negatively impact our ability to run our business and either directly or indirectly disrupt our advertisers’ businesses, which could have an adverse effect on our business prospects, operating results and financial condition.. We are effectively controlled by Mike Zoi, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Zoi’s interests may conflict with the interests of our outside stockholders, who may be unable to influence management and exercise control over our business.. Mike Zoi, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, owns, in combination with the holdings of entities that he controls, approximately 86.7% of our issued and outstanding common stock as of March 15, 2012. As a result, and in addition to having de-facto control over all key elements of the day to day operations of our business, Mr. Zoi can be viewed as having de-facto control over corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, including but not limited to: (i) electing and removing directors, (ii) amending or preventing amendment of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws; (iii) selling all or substantially all of our assets, and (iv) merging with another entity. This concentration of ownership could be disadvantageous to shareholders with interests that might vary from those of Mr. Zoi and adversely affect the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our securities.. 16. The impact of worldwide economic conditions, including the resulting effect on advertising spending by local businesses, may adversely affect our business prospects, operating results and financial condition.. Our performance is subject to worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of advertising spent by businesses, which may be disproportionately affected by economic downturns. To the extent that the current economic slowdown continues, or worldwide economic conditions materially deteriorate, our existing and potential advertising clients may no longer consider investment in our advertising solutions a necessity, or may elect to reduce advertising budgets. Historically, economic downturns have generally resulted in reductions in advertising spending. In particular, web-based advertising solutions may be viewed by some of our existing and potential advertising clients as a lower priority and could cause advertisers to reduce the amounts they spend on advertising, terminate their use of our solutions or default on their payment obligations to us. In addition, economic conditions may adversely impact levels of consumer spending, which could adversely impact the numbers of consumers visiting our websites. Consumer purchases of discretionary items generally decline during recessionary periods and other periods in which disposable income is adversely affected. If consumer spending declines, businesses may be less likely to advertise on our websites, which could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Securities:. Our historic stock price has been volatile and the future market price of our common stock is likely to continue to be volatile. Further, the limited market for our shares contributes significantly to the high volatility in the market price of our common stock. This may make it difficult for you to sell our common stock for a positive return on your investment.. The public market for our common stock has historically been very volatile. Over the last two completed fiscal years, the market price for our common stock has ranged from $0.01 to $1.05. Any future market price for our shares is likely to continue to be very volatile. This price volatility may make it more difficult for you to sell shares when you want at prices you find attractive. We do not know of any one particular factor that has caused volatility in our stock price. However, the market for our common stock is limited, which contributes significantly to that volatility, and we cannot assure you that a larger or more liquid market will ever be developed or maintained. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. Broad market factors and the investing public’s negative perception of our business may reduce our stock price, regardless of our operating performance. Market fluctuations and volatility, as well as general economic, market and political conditions, could reduce our market price. These fluctuations may also cause short sellers to periodically enter the market in the belief that we will have poor results in the future. As a result, this may make it difficult or impossible for you to sell our common stock for a positive return on your investment.. Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate which could negatively affect the price of our stock.. Our operating results could vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year because of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful and the market price of our common stock may be negatively affected. The following factors, among others, may contribute to the variability of our quarterly and annual results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock:. ·our ability to attract new advertisers and retain existing advertisers;. ·the effects of changes in search engine placement and prominence of our websites;. ·the effects of increased competition on our business;. ·our ability to successfully expand in existing markets and enter new markets;. ·the impact of worldwide economic conditions, including the resulting effect on consumer spending and the level of advertising spending by businesses;. ·our ability to protect our intellectual property;. ·our ability to maintain and increase traffic to our websites;. ·our ability to keep pace with changes in technology;. ·the success of our sales and marketing efforts;. ·costs associated with defending intellectual property infringement and other claims and related judgments or settlements;. ·changes in government licensing and regulation affecting our business;. ·interruptions in service and any related impact on our reputation;. ·the attraction and retention of qualified employees and key personnel;. 17. ·our ability to choose and effectively manage third-party service providers;. ·the impact of fluctuations in currency exchange rates;. ·our ability to successfully manage and integrate any acquisitions of businesses, solutions or technologies;. ·the effects of natural or man-made catastrophic events;. ·changes in consumer behavior;. ·our ability to increase the effectiveness of our internal controls; and. ·changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities.. We may sell equity securities in the future, which would cause dilution.. We may sell equity securities in the future to obtain funds for general corporate or other purposes. We may sell these securities at a discount to the market price. Any future sales of equity securities will dilute the holdings of existing stockholders, possibly reducing the value of their investment.. We incur increased costs as a result of being a public company.. As a public company, we currently incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses not incurred by private companies. If our stock becomes listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market or any other exchange, then we will incur significant additional compliance expenses. It may be time consuming, difficult and costly for us to develop and implement the additional internal controls, processes and reporting procedures required by federal statutes, Securities and Exchange Commission rules, other government regulations affecting public companies and/or stock exchange compliance requirements. We may need to hire additional financial reporting, internal auditing and other finance staff in order to develop and implement appropriate internal controls, processes and reporting procedures, which will increase our expenses and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. We may fail to qualify for continued quotation on the OTCQB electronic quotation system, which could make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares.. Our common stock is currently quoted on the OTCQB electronic quotation system, which is the middle tier of the OTC Markets. There can be no assurance that quotation of our common stock on the OTCQB will continue. In the event that our common stock fails to qualify for continued quotation on the OTCQB, our common stock could thereafter only be quoted on the OTC Pink market, which is the bottom tier of the OTC Markets. Under such circumstances, shareholders may find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations for, our common stock, and our common stock would become substantially less attractive to certain purchasers such as certain financial institutions, hedge funds and other similar investors.. Our common stock is subject to the “penny stock” rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, which makes it more difficult for our investors to sell their shares.. Our common stock is subject to the “penny stock” rules adopted pursuant to Section 15(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The penny stock rules apply to, among others, companies whose common stock is not listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market or another national securities exchange or whose common stock trades at less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Such rules require, among other things, that brokers who trade “penny stock” complete certain documentation, make suitability inquiries of investors and provide investors with certain information concerning trading in the security, including a risk disclosure document and quote information under certain circumstances. Many brokers have decided not to trade “penny stock” because of the requirements of the penny stock rules and, as a result, the number of broker-dealers willing to act as market makers in such securities is limited. Because our securities are subject to the penny stock rules, investors will find it more difficult to dispose of our securities."
