[1] "ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risks and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other public filings before making any investment decisions with respect to our securities. If any of the following risks occurs, our business, prospects, reputation, results of operations, or financial condition could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our securities could decline, and our stockholders could lose all or part of their investment. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of specific factors, including the risks described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. We have incurred significant operating losses since inception and cannot assure you that we will achieve profitability.. We have incurred significant cumulative net losses since our inception. Our net losses for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, were approximately $12.9 million and $14.9 million, respectively. At December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $191.3 million. The extent of our future operating income or losses is highly uncertain, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve or maintain profitability.. Our future capital needs are uncertain and our independent auditor has expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on our ability to achieve the GSK Collaboration milestones or to raise additional capital and our operations could be curtailed if we are unable to obtain the required additional funding when needed. We may not be able to do so when necessary, and/or the terms of any financings may not be advantageous to us.. We held cash and cash equivalents of $4.0 million as of December 31, 2017. We believe that these resources, the $5.0 million received in January 2018 under the GSK Collaboration, future GSK Collaboration milestones and payments, and the cash to be generated from future product sales will be sufficient to meet our projected operating requirements into the fourth quarter of 2018. However, the timing of GSK milestone achievement and the amount of our future product sales is difficult to predict and actual sales may not be in line with our forecasts.. Our financial statements have been prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern which contemplates the realization of assets and satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. We expect to incur further losses as we aim to successfully commercialize Quell and DPNCheck and the operations of our business and will be dependent on funding our operations through additional public or private financing, collaborative arrangements with strategic partners, or through additional credit lines or other debt financing sources to increase the funds available to fund operations. These circumstances raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. As a result of this uncertainty and the substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern as of December 31, 2017, the report of our independent registered public accounting firm in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 includes a going concern explanatory paragraph. Management's plans include increasing revenue through the commercialization of Quell and DPNCheck. However, no assurance can be given at this time as to whether we will be able to achieve these objectives. Our financial statements do not include any adjustment relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts or the amounts and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern.. We continue to face significant challenges and uncertainties and, as a result, our available capital resources may be consumed more rapidly than currently expected due to (a) decreases in sales of our products and the uncertainty of future revenues from new products; (b) changes we may make to the business that affect ongoing operating expenses; (c) changes we may make in our business strategy; (d) regulatory developments and inquiries affecting our existing products and delays in the FDA approval process for products under development; (e) changes in our research and development spending plans; and (f) other items affecting our forecasted level of expenditures and use of cash resources. Accordingly, we may need to raise additional funds to support our future operating and capital needs in the fourth quarter of 2018. We may attempt to obtain additional funding through public or private financing, collaborative arrangements with strategic partners, or through additional credit lines or other debt financing sources to increase the funds available to fund operations. However, we may not be able to secure such financing in a timely manner or on favorable terms, if at all. Furthermore, if we issue equity or debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience dilution, and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. If we raise additional funds through collaboration, licensing or other similar arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish valuable rights to our potential products or proprietary. 15. technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. Without additional funds, we may be forced to delay, scale back or eliminate some of our sales and marketing efforts, research and development activities, or other operations and potentially delay product development in an effort to provide sufficient funds to continue our operations. If any of these events occurs, our ability to achieve our development and commercialization goals would be adversely affected.. We are focused on the commercialization within the United States of Quell, our over-the-counter, or OTC, wearable device for chronic pain. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in this field or that our current commercial product for peripheral neuropathy, DPNCheck, or the product candidates or product enhancements in our development pipeline, will be successful.. We are focused on the commercialization within the United States of Quell, our OTC wearable device for pain relief. Quell is based on our prescription product for pain relief, SENSUS. Quell has been on the market since June 2015 and we have shipped approximately 140,500 Quell devices since then. Additionally, DPNCheck, which was launched in 2011, is a quantitative nerve conduction test for systemic neuropathies, such as DPN. We also have other product candidates and product enhancements in our development pipeline. Our future prospects are closely tied to our success with Quell and DPNCheck, which, in turn, depend upon market acceptance and growth in future revenues. We cannot assure you that our commercialization strategy will be successful. If our strategy is not successful, it could materially affect our revenues and results of operations.. Our future success could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including:. • inability to create market demand for Quell through online marketing efforts, direct response television and other retail channels;. • manufacturing issues with Quell or our other products;. • inability to increase adoption of DPNCheck within the Medicare Advantage market;. • unfavorable market response to our product in international markets;. • regulatory inquiries or issues affecting our products;. • unfavorable changes to current Medicare, Medicare Advantage and commercial payer payment policies;. • changes to payor policies under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act;. • unfavorable experiences by patients and physicians using Quell and our other products; and,. • physicians' or patients' reluctance to alter their existing practices and adopt the use of our devices.. If we are unable to expand exposure and penetrate the market for Quell and/or DPNCheck, our ability to increase our revenues will be limited and our business prospects will be adversely affected.. Our current and future revenue is dependent upon commercial acceptance of Quell by the market. The failure of such acceptance will materially and adversely affect our operations.. We anticipate that as revenue from our legacy neurodiagnostics business, the ADVANCE System, continues to decrease, we will rely more heavily on revenue from sales of Quell, our OTC wearable device. As a result, we will continue to incur operating losses until such time as sales of Quell and other products or product candidates reach a mature level and we are able to generate sufficient revenue from their sale to meet our operating expenses. There can be no assurance that customers will adopt our technology and products, or that prospective customers will agree to pay for our products. In the event that we are not able to significantly increase the number of customers that purchase our products, or if we are unable to charge the necessary prices, our financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected.. We have recently entered into the GSK Collaboration, and our ability to work together with GSK to achieve the desired results of the collaboration is unproven.. In January 2018, we entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement with GSK, pursuant to which we agreed to sell to GSK our Quell technology for markets outside of the United States, including certain patents and related assets. We retain exclusive ownership of Quell technology in the U.S. market. We and GSK also entered into a Development and Services Agreement on January 12, 2018, pursuant to which we agreed to provide services related to the development, regulatory approval and commercialization of the Quell technology for markets outside of the U.S. We have agreed not to compete with GSK with respect to the development and commercialization of the Quell technology and device outside of the U.S. until the tenth anniversary of the date of termination or expiration without renewal of the Development and Services Agreement.. 16. Pursuant to the Development and Services Agreement, GSK has agreed to make contingent payments of up to $21.5 million to us upon the occurrence of certain development and commercialization milestones, plus amounts for co-funded next-generation Quell development. As we have just recently entered into these agreements, we do not have a history of working together with GSK on which we can base the likelihood of success of this collaboration. If we are unable to achieve the anticipated milestones, we will not receive the anticipated contingent payments, and our business could be materially and adversely affected.. If health care providers are unable to obtain sufficient reimbursement or other financial incentives from third-party health care payers related to the use of our products other than Quell, their adoption and our future product sales will be materially adversely affected.. Widespread adoption of our DPNCheck products by the medical community is unlikely to occur without a financial incentive from third-party payers for the use of these products. If health care providers are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement for procedures performed using these products, if managed care organizations do not receive improved capitated payments due to more accurate patient risk assessment using our products, and if DME suppliers are not adequately reimbursed for supplying our therapeutic products, we may be unable to sell our products at levels that are sufficient to allow us to achieve and maintain profitability, and our business would suffer significantly. Additionally, even if these products and procedures are adequately reimbursed by third-party payers today, adverse changes in payers future policies toward payment would harm our ability to market and sell our products. Third-party payers include those governmental programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, private health insurers, workers' compensation programs and other organizations.. Future regulatory action by CMS or other governmental agencies or negative clinical results may diminish reimbursement payments to physicians for performing procedures using our products. Medicaid reimbursement differs from state to state, and some state Medicaid programs may not cover the procedures performed with our products or pay physicians an adequate amount for performing those procedures, if at all. Additionally, some private payers do not follow the Medicare guidelines and may reimburse for only a portion of these procedures or not at all. We are unable to predict what changes will be made in the reimbursement methods used by private or governmental third-party payers. Importantly, we cannot predict the effects that implementation of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act will have on CMS, commercial insurers, health care providers, and ultimately on our business.. Healthcare reform legislation could adversely affect our future revenues.. Our future revenues from SENSUS will be impacted by the CMS Durable Medical Equipment, Prosthetics, Orthotics and Supplies (DMEPOS) Competitive Bidding Program. Under this program, Medicare will no longer reimburse suppliers for certain products and services, including transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS), based on the Medicare fee schedule amount. Instead CMS will provide reimbursement for those products and services based on a competitive bidding process. Our SENSUS pain management system is presently classified within TENS. The DMEPOS Competitive Bidding Program will likely require us to sell SENSUS devices and related consumables subject to Medicare reimbursement at significantly lower prices which would have a material adverse effect on SENSUS profitability. In those regions of the country where DMEPOS Competitive Bidding was implemented in January 2014, low Medicare pricing is restricting our ability to sell SENSUS. As the DMEPOS program is expanded to other regions, a similar effect will likely be seen.. We are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA which could restrict the sales and marketing of the Quell, SENSUS and DPNCheck devices and the ADVANCE System, as well as other products for which we may seek FDA clearance or approval, and could cause us to incur significant costs.. We sell medical devices that are subject to extensive regulation in the United States by the FDA with regard to manufacturing, labeling, sale, promotion, distribution, shipping and ongoing monitoring and follow-up. Before a new medical device, or a new use of or claim for an existing product, can be marketed in the United States, it must first be cleared or approved by the FDA. Medical devices may be marketed only for the indications for which they are approved or cleared. The regulatory review process can be expensive and lengthy. The FDA's process for granting 510(k) clearance typically takes approximately three to six months, but it can be significantly longer. The process for obtaining a pre-market approval, or PMA, is much more costly and onerous. By law, the time period designated for the FDA's review of a PMA is 180 days; however, this time is often extended and it is not uncommon for the PMA review process to take three years or longer from the time the application is filed with the FDA.. 17. The FDA may remove our devices from the market or enjoin them from commercial distribution if safety or effectiveness problems develop. Further, we may not be able to obtain additional 510(k) clearances or pre-market approvals for new products or for modifications to, or additional indications for, our existing products in a timely fashion, or at all. Delays in obtaining future clearances or approvals would adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn would harm our revenue and future profitability. We have made modifications to our devices in the past and may make additional modifications in the future that we believe do not or will not require additional clearances or approvals. If the FDA disagrees, and requires new clearances or approvals for the modifications, we may be required to recall and to stop marketing the modified devices. If any of these events occurs or if the FDA takes other enforcement actions, we may not be able to provide our customers with the products they require on a timely basis, our reputation could be harmed, and we could lose customers and suffer reduced revenues and increased costs.. We also are subject to numerous post-marketing regulatory requirements, including the FDA's quality system regulations, which relate to the design, manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, installation and servicing of our products, labeling regulations, medical device reporting regulations and correction and removal reporting regulations. Our failure or the failure by any manufacturer of our products to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in enforcement action by the FDA. FDA enforcement actions relating to post-marketing regulatory requirements or other issues may include any of the following:. • warning letters, untitled letters, fines, injunctions, product seizures, consent decrees and civil penalties;. • requiring repair, replacement, refunds, customer notifications or recall of our products;. • imposing operating restrictions, suspension or shutdown of production;. • refusing our requests for 510(k) clearance or PMA approval of new products, new intended uses, or modifications to existing products;. • requesting voluntary rescission of 510(k) clearances or withdrawing PMA approvals that have already been granted; and. • criminal prosecution.. If any of these events were to occur, they could harm our reputation, our ability to generate revenues and our profitability.. Also, from time to time, legislation is introduced into Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the approval, manufacturing and marketing of medical devices. FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the agency in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. It is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted, or FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations changed, and what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. The FDA has publicly stated that it is reevaluating its longstanding 510(k) review program. It is not clear when, the program will be modified and what effect the modified review process will have on our ability to bring our product candidates to market.. We depend on several single source manufacturers to produce components of our products. Any material adverse changes in our relationships with these manufacturers could prevent us from delivering products to our customers in a timely manner and may adversely impact our future revenues or costs.. We rely on third-party manufacturers to manufacture components of our Quell, DPNCheck and SENSUS systems, and to fully manufacture devices for the ADVANCE system. In the event that our manufacturers cease to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products or components in a timely manner and on terms acceptable to us, we would be forced to locate alternate manufacturers. Additionally, if our manufacturers experience a failure in their production process, are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of the components necessary to manufacture our products or otherwise fail to meet our quality requirements, we may be forced to delay the manufacture and sale of our products or locate an alternative manufacturer. We may be unable to locate suitable alternative manufacturers for our products or components for which the manufacturing process is relatively specialized, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We have a manufacturing and supply agreement with Johnson Medtech, LLC. for the manufacture of the ADVANCE electrodes for nerve conduction testing. Katecho, Inc. manufactures biosensors for use with our DPNCheck devices and manufactures electrodes for Quell and SENSUS, and Sunburst EMS, Inc. manufactures electronic boards and other components of our Quell, DPNCheck and SENSUS products which we assemble at our Massachusetts facility to produce completed devices. Moreover, due to the recent commercialization of Quell and the limited amount of our sales to date we do not have long-standing relationships with our manufacturers, other than Katecho, Inc., and may not be able to convince suppliers to continue to make components available to us unless there is demand for such. 18. components from their other customers. As a result, there is a risk that certain components could be discontinued and no longer available to us.. We have experienced transient inventory shortages on new products, including Quell, during the initial production ramp-up phase. If any materially adverse changes in our relationships with these manufacturers occur, our ability to supply our customers will be severely limited until we are able to engage an alternate manufacturer or, if applicable, resolve any quality issues with our existing manufacturer. This situation could prevent us from delivering products to our customers in a timely manner, lead to decreased sales or increased costs, or harm our reputation with our customers.. If our manufacturers are unable to supply us with an adequate supply of product components as we expand our markets, we could lose customers, our potential future growth could be limited and our business could be harmed.. In order for us to successfully expand our business, our contract manufacturers must be able to provide us with substantial quantities of components of our products in compliance with regulatory requirements, in accordance with agreed upon specifications, at acceptable cost and on a timely basis. Our potential future growth could strain the ability of our manufacturers to deliver products and obtain materials and components in sufficient quantities. Manufacturers often experience difficulties in scaling up production, including problems with production yields and quality control and assurance. If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of high quality products to meet customer demand on a timely basis, we could lose customers, our growth may be limited and our business could be harmed.. If we or our manufacturers fail to comply with the FDA's quality system regulation, the manufacturing and distribution of our products could be interrupted, and our product sales and operating results could suffer.. We and our contract manufacturers are required to comply with the FDA's quality system regulation, or QSR, which is a complex regulation that governs the procedures and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of our devices. The FDA enforces the QSR through periodic inspections. We cannot assure you that our facilities or the facilities of the manufacturers of our products would pass any future inspection. If our facilities or any of the facilities of the manufacturers of our products fail an inspection, the manufacturing or distribution of our products could be interrupted and our operations disrupted. Failure to take adequate and timely corrective action in response to an adverse inspection could result in a suspension or shutdown of our packaging and labeling operations and the operations of the manufacturers of our products or a recall of our products, or other administrative or judicial sanctions. If any of these events occurs, we may not be able to provide our customers with the quantity of products they require on a timely basis, our reputation could be harmed, and we could lose customers and suffer reduced revenues and increased costs.. We are subject to Federal Trade Commission regulatory oversight. Exercise of this regulatory oversight could lead to an outcome which would constrain our marketing of Quell, cause us to incur significant costs and penalties, and adversely affect our financial results.. Under the Federal Trade Commission Act (\"FTC Act\"), the FTC is empowered, among other things, to (a) prevent unfair methods of competition and unfair or deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce; (b) seek monetary redress and other relief for conduct injurious to consumers; and (c) gather and compile information and conduct investigations relating to the organization, business, practices, and management of entities engaged in commerce. The FTC has very broad enforcement authority, and failure to abide by the substantive requirements of the FTC Act and other consumer protection laws can result in administrative or judicial penalties, including civil penalties, injunctions affecting the manner in which we would be able to market Quell in the future, or criminal prosecution.. In 2017, we received a Civil Investigative Demand (\"CID\") from the FTC. The CID requests information in connection with an FTC review for compliance of our representations about Quell with Sections 5 and 12 of the FTC Act. We are in the process of producing documents and information in response to the CID. To our knowledge, no complaint has been filed against us; however, no assurance can be given as to the timing or outcome of the investigation.. Our products may be subject to recalls, even after receiving FDA clearance or approval, which would harm our reputation, business and financial results.. 19. We are subject to the medical device reporting regulations, which require us to report to the FDA if our products may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury, or have malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to occur. We are also subject to the correction and removal reporting regulations, which require us to report to the FDA any field corrections and device recalls or removals that we undertake to reduce a risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, caused by the device which may present a risk to health. In addition, the FDA and similar governmental agencies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of our products if there is a reasonable probability that the products would cause serious adverse health consequences or death. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of manufacturing defects, labeling deficiencies, packaging defects or other failures to comply with applicable regulations. Any recall would divert management attention and financial resources and harm our reputation with customers and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The success of our business depends upon our ability to advance our pipeline products to commercialization.. We commenced commercialization of Quell in June 2015. We have additional product candidates and enhancements of our existing products in our R&D pipeline. We expect that advancing our pipeline products will require significant time and resources. We may not be successful in our commercialization efforts for any of the product candidates or product enhancements currently in our pipeline and we may not be successful in developing, acquiring, or in-licensing additional product candidates, to the extent we decide to do so. If we are not successful advancing new products through our development pipeline, the regulatory process and commercial launch, our business, financial condition, and results of operations will be adversely affected.. Our ability to achieve profitability depends in part on maintaining or increasing our gross margins on product sales which we may not be able to achieve.. A number of factors may adversely impact our gross margins on product sales and services, including:. • lower than expected manufacturing yields of high cost components leading to increased manufacturing costs;. • low production volume which will result in high levels of overhead cost per unit of production;. • the timing of revenue recognition and revenue deferrals;. • increased material or labor costs;. • increased service or warranty costs or the failure to reduce service or warranty costs;. • increased price competition;. • variation in the margins across products in a particular period; and. • how well we execute on our strategic and operating plans.. If we are unable to maintain or increase our gross margins on product sales, our results of operations could be adversely impacted, we may not achieve profitability and our stock price could decline.. The patent rights we rely upon to protect the intellectual property underlying our products may not be adequate, which could enable third parties to use our technology and would harm our ability to compete in the market.. Our success will depend in part on our ability to develop or acquire commercially valuable patent rights and to protect these rights adequately. The risks and uncertainties that we face with respect to our patents and other related rights include the following:. • the pending patent applications we have filed or to which we have exclusive rights may not result in issued patents or may take longer than we expect to result in issued patents;. • the claims of any patents that are issued may not provide meaningful protection;. • we may not be able to develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable;. • other parties may challenge patents, patent claims or patent applications licensed or issued to us; and. • other companies may design around technologies we have patented, licensed or developed.. Our issued and filed patents for our wearable therapeutic products are recent. With regard to our legacy neurodiagnostic products, our issued design patents began to expire in 2015, and our issued utility patents began to expire in 2017. In particular, seven of our issued U.S. utility patents covering various aspects of the legacy neurodiagnostic business expired on the same day. 20. in 2017. Although the patent protection for material aspects of these products covered by the claims of the patents were lost at that time, we have additional patents and patent applications directed to other novel inventions that will have patent terms extending beyond 2017. We may not be able to protect our patent rights effectively in some foreign countries. For a variety of reasons, we may decide not to file for patent protection in the United States or in particular foreign countries. Our patent rights underlying our products may not be adequate, and our competitors or customers may design around our proprietary technologies or independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal or superior to our technology and products without infringing on any of our patent rights. In addition, the patents licensed or issued to us may not provide a competitive advantage. If any of these events were to occur, our ability to compete in the market would be harmed.. Other rights and measures we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not be adequate, which would harm our ability to compete in the market.. In addition to patents, we rely on a combination of trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws, confidentiality, nondisclosure and assignment of invention agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on trade secrets to protect the technology and algorithms we use in our customer data processing and warehousing information system. While we currently require employees, consultants and other third parties to enter into confidentiality, non-disclosure or assignment of invention agreements or a combination thereof where appropriate, any of the following could still occur:. • the agreements may be breached or not enforced in a particular jurisdiction;. • we may have inadequate remedies for any breach;. • trade secrets and other proprietary information could be disclosed to our competitors; or. • others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technologies.. If, for any of the above reasons, our intellectual property is disclosed or misappropriated, it would harm our ability to protect our rights and our competitive position.. We may need to initiate lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, which could be expensive and, if we lose, could cause us to lose some of our intellectual property rights, which would harm our ability to compete in the market.. We rely on patents to protect a portion of our intellectual property and our competitive position. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the technology fields in which we operate is still evolving and, consequently, patent positions in the medical device industry are generally uncertain. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate patent litigation against third parties, such as infringement suits or interference proceedings. Litigation may be necessary to:. • assert claims of infringement;. • enforce our patents;. • protect our trade secrets or know-how; or. • determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others.. Any lawsuits that we initiate could be expensive, take significant time and divert management's attention from other business concerns. Litigation also puts our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Additionally, we may provoke third parties to assert claims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially valuable. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our business, our ability to compete in the market or our reputation.. Claims that our products infringe on the proprietary rights of others could adversely affect our ability to sell our products and increase our costs.. Substantial litigation over intellectual property rights exists in the medical device industry. We expect that our products could be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of competitors grows and the functionality of products and technology in different industry segments overlap. Third parties may currently have, or may eventually be issued, patents on which our products or technologies may infringe. Any of these third parties might make a claim of infringement against us. Any litigation regardless of its impact would likely result in the expenditure of significant financial resources and the diversion of management's time and resources. In addition, litigation in which we are accused of infringement may cause negative publicity, adversely impact prospective customers, cause product shipment delays or require us to develop non-. 21. infringing technology, make substantial payments to third parties, or enter into royalty or license agreements, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If a successful claim of infringement were made against us and we could not develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely and cost-effective basis, our revenues may decrease substantially and we could be exposed to significant liability.. We are subject to federal and state laws prohibiting \"kickbacks\" and false or fraudulent claims, which, if violated, could subject us to substantial penalties. Additionally, any challenge to or investigation into our practices under these laws could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to, and thus could harm our business.. A federal law commonly known as the federal anti-kickback law, and several similar state laws, prohibit the payment of any remuneration that is intended to induce physicians or others either to refer patients or to acquire or arrange for or recommend the acquisition of health care products or services. These laws constrain a medical device company's sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of business relationships and financial arrangements, including sales programs we may have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of medical devices. Other federal and state laws generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment to Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payers that are false or fraudulent, or for items or services that were not provided as claimed. From time to time, we may provide coding and billing information as product support to purchasers of our products. Anti-kickback and false claims laws prescribe civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance, which can be quite substantial including exclusion from participation in federal health care programs. A number of states have enacted laws that require pharmaceutical and medical device companies to monitor and report payments, gifts and other remuneration made to physicians and other health care professionals and health care organizations. Some state statutes, such as the one in Massachusetts, impose an outright ban on gifts to physicians. These laws are often referred to as \"gift ban\" or \"aggregate spend\" laws and carry substantial fines if they are violated. Similar legislation, known as the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, was enacted by Congress during 2014. In the event that we are found to have violated these laws or determine to settle a claim that we have done so, our business may be materially adversely affected as a result of any payments required to be made, restrictions on our future operations or actions required to be taken, damage to our business reputation or adverse publicity in connection with such a finding or settlement or other adverse effects relating thereto. Additionally, even an unsuccessful challenge or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity, and be costly to respond to, and thus could harm our business and results of operations.. If we are found to have violated laws protecting the confidentiality of patient health information, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, which could increase our liabilities, damage our reputation and harm our business.. There are a number of federal and state laws protecting the confidentiality of individually identifiable patient health information, including patient records, and restricting the use and disclosure of that protected information. In particular, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services promulgated patient privacy rules under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA. These privacy rules protect medical records and other personal health information by limiting their use and disclosure, giving individuals the right to access, amend and seek accounting of their own health information and limiting most use and disclosures of health information to the minimum amount reasonably necessary to accomplish the intended purpose. We do not believe that we are subject to the HIPAA rules. However, if we are found to be in violation of the privacy rules under HIPAA, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, which could increase our liabilities and harm our reputation or our business.. The use of our products could result in product liability claims that could be expensive, damage our reputation and harm our business.. Our business exposes us to an inherent risk of potential product liability claims related to the manufacturing, marketing and sale of medical devices. The medical device industry historically has been litigious, and we face financial exposure to product liability claims if the use of our products were to cause or contribute to injury or death. Our products may be susceptible to claims of injury because their use involves the electric stimulation of a patient's nerves. Although we maintain product liability insurance for our products and other commercial insurance, the coverage limits of these policies may not be adequate to cover future claims. As sales and use of our products increase, we may be unable to maintain sufficient product liability or other commercial insurance on acceptable terms or at reasonable costs, and this insurance may not provide us with adequate coverage against potential liabilities. A successful claim brought against us in excess of, or outside of, our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A product liability claim, regardless of its merit or. 22. eventual outcome, could result in substantial costs to us, a substantial diversion of management attention and adverse publicity. A product liability claim could also harm our reputation and result in a decline in revenues and an increase in expenses.. Our products are complex in design, and defects may not be discovered prior to shipment to customers, which could result in warranty obligations or product liability or other claims, reducing our revenues and increasing our costs and liabilities.. We depend upon third parties for the manufacture of our products or components. Our products, particularly our electrodes, require a significant degree of technical expertise to produce. If these manufacturers fail to produce our products to specification, or if the manufacturers use defective materials or workmanship in the manufacturing process, the reliability and performance of our products will be compromised.. If our products contain defects that cannot be repaired quickly, easily and inexpensively, we may experience:. • loss of customer orders and delay in order fulfillment;. • damage to our brand reputation;. • increased cost of our warranty program due to product repair or replacement;. • inability to attract new customers;. • diversion of resources from our manufacturing and research and development departments into our service department; and. • legal action.. The occurrence of any one or more of the foregoing could harm our reputation and materially reduce our revenues and increase our costs and liabilities.. If we lose any of our officers or key employees, our management and technical expertise could be weakened significantly.. Our success largely depends on the skills, experience, and efforts of our executive officers, including Shai N. Gozani, M.D., Ph.D., our founder, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Thomas T. Higgins, our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Francis X. McGillin, our Senior Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies covering any of our employees. The loss of any of our executive officers could weaken our management and technical expertise significantly and harm our business.. If we are unable to recruit, hire and retain skilled and experienced personnel, our ability to manage and expand our business will be harmed, which would impair our future revenues and profitability.. We are a small company with 41 employees as of December 31, 2017, and our ability to retain our skilled labor force and our success in attracting and hiring new skilled employees will be a critical factor in determining our future performance. We may not be able to meet our future hiring needs or retain existing personnel, particularly given the challenges faced by our business. We will face challenges and risks in hiring, training, managing and retaining engineering and sales and marketing employees. Failure to attract and retain personnel, particularly technical and sales and marketing personnel would materially harm our ability to compete effectively and grow our business.. Failure to develop or enter into relationships to sell products other than our existing products or enhance our existing products could have an adverse effect on our business prospects.. Our future business and financial success will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively market our products, such as Quell and DPNCheck, and enhance these products in response to customer demand. Developing new products and upgrades to existing and future products imposes burdens on our research and development department and our management. This process is costly, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully develop new products or enhance our current products. We also may not be able to enter into relationships with other companies to sell additional products. In addition, as we develop the market for our products, future competitors may develop desirable product features earlier than we do which could make our competitors' products less expensive or more effective than our products and could render our products obsolete or unmarketable. If our product development efforts are unsuccessful, we will have incurred significant costs without recognizing the expected benefits and our business prospects may suffer.. 23. If we are unable to develop new products or enhance existing products, we may be unable to attract or retain customers.. Our success depends on the successful development, regulatory clearance or approval (if required), introduction and commercialization of new generations of products, treatment systems, and enhancements to and/or simplification of existing products. Quell and DPNCheck must keep pace with, among other things, the products of our competitors. We are making significant investments in long-term growth initiatives. Such initiatives require significant capital commitments, involvement of senior management and other investments on our part, which we may be unable to recover. Our timeline for the development of new products or enhancements may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. Commercialization of new products may prove challenging, and we may be required to invest more time and money than expected to successfully introduce them. Once introduced, new products may adversely impact orders and sales of our existing products, or make them less desirable or even obsolete. Compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences may also impact the successful implementation of new products or enhancements.. Our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products and product enhancements, and the revenues and costs associated with these efforts, may be affected by our ability to:. • properly identify customer needs;. • prove feasibility of new products in a timely manner;. • educate physicians about the use of new products and procedures;. • comply with internal quality assurance systems and processes timely and efficiently;. • comply with regulatory requirements relating to our products, and limit the timing and cost of obtaining required regulatory approvals or clearances;. • accurately predict and control costs associated with inventory overruns caused by phase-in of new products and phase-out of old products;. • price new products competitively;. • manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes on time, and accurately predict and control costs associated with manufacture of the products; and. • meet our product development plan and launch timelines.. Even if customers accept new products or product enhancements, the revenues from these products may not be sufficient to offset the significant costs associated with making them available to customers. Failure to successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval or clearance for, manufacture or introduce new products or to complete these processes in a timely and efficient manner could result in delays that could affect our ability to attract and retain customers, or could cause customers to delay or cancel orders, causing our backlog, revenues and operating results to suffer.. We currently compete, and may in the future need to compete, against other medical device and consumer companies with greater resources, more established distribution channels and other competitive advantages, and the success of these competitors may harm our ability to generate revenues.. We currently do, and in the future may need to, compete directly and indirectly with a number of other companies that may have competitive advantages over us. Our diagnostic devices for nerve testing compete with companies that sell traditional nerve conduction study and electromyography equipment including Cadwell Laboratories, Inc. and Natus Medical Incorporated. These companies enjoy significant competitive advantages, including:. • greater resources for product development, sales and marketing;. • more established distribution networks;. • greater name recognition;. • more established relationships with health care professionals, customers and third-party payers; and. • additional lines of products and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer discounts or incentives.. As we develop the market for wearable technology for chronic pain, we will be faced with competition from other companies that decide and are able to enter the market as well as competition from other forms of treatment for chronic pain. Some or all of our future competitors in the diagnostic nerve testing market and the consumer market for pain relief may enjoy competitive advantages such as those described above. If we are unable to compete effectively against existing and future competitors, our sales will decline and our business will be harmed.. 24. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which could cause our business and reputation to suffer.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data in our data centers, on our networks, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information, and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of our employees. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. If future clinical studies or other articles are published, or physician associations or other organizations announce positions that are unfavorable to our products, our sales efforts and revenues may be negatively affected.. Future clinical studies or other articles regarding our existing products or any competing products may be published that either support a claim, or are perceived to support a claim, that a competitor's product is more accurate or effective than our products or that our products are not as accurate or effective as we claim or previous clinical studies have concluded. Additionally, physician associations or other organizations that may be viewed as authoritative or have an economic interest in nerve conduction studies and in related electrodiagnostic procedures or other procedures that may be performed using our products or in neurostimulation therapies using our devices could endorse products or methods that compete with our products or otherwise announce positions that are unfavorable to our products. Any of these events may negatively affect our sales efforts and result in decreased revenues.. As we expand into foreign markets with respect to products other than Quell, we will be affected by new business risks that may adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations.. Foreign markets represented approximately 7% and 12% of our revenues in 2017 and 2016, respectively. We are working to expand market penetration, particularly in Asia. Any such expansion will subject us to the possibility of new business risks, including:. • failure to fulfill foreign regulatory requirements, if applicable, to market our products;. • availability of, and changes in, reimbursement within prevailing foreign health care payment systems;. • adapting to the differing business practices and laws in foreign countries;. • difficulties in managing foreign relationships and operations, including any relationships that we establish with foreign distributors or sales or marketing agents;. • limited protection for intellectual property rights in some countries;. • difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods;. • costs of enforcing contractual obligations in foreign jurisdictions;. • recessions in economies outside of the United States;. • political instability and unexpected changes in diplomatic and trade relationships;. • currency exchange rate fluctuations; and. • potentially adverse tax consequences.. If we are successful in introducing our products other than Quell into foreign markets, we will be affected by these additional business risks, which may adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, expansion into foreign markets imposes additional burdens on our executive and administrative personnel, research and sales departments, and general managerial resources. Our efforts to introduce our products other than Quell into foreign markets may not be successful, in which case we may have expended significant resources without realizing the expected benefit.. Our loan and security agreement with a bank, which we refer to as our credit facility, contains financial and operating restrictions that may limit our access to credit. If we fail to comply with covenants in the credit facility, we may be required to repay any indebtedness thereunder, which may have an adverse effect on our liquidity.. 25. Although we have not borrowed any funds under the credit facility, provisions in the credit facility impose restrictions on our ability to, among other things:. • incur additional indebtedness;. • create liens;. • replace certain of our executive officers;. • enter into transactions with affiliates;. • transfer assets;. • pay dividends or make distributions on, or repurchase, our capital stock; and. • merge or consolidate.. In addition, we are required to meet certain financial covenants customary with this type of credit facility, including maintaining a minimum specified tangible net worth. The credit facility also contains other customary covenants, which we may not be able to comply with in the future. Our failure to comply with these covenants may result in the declaration of an event of default and could cause us to be unable to borrow under the credit facility. In addition to preventing additional borrowings under the credit facility, an event of default, if not cured or waived, may result in the acceleration of the maturity of indebtedness outstanding under the credit facility at the time of the default, which would require us to pay all amounts outstanding. If an event of default occurs, we may not be able to cure it within any applicable cure period, if at all. If the maturity of our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available for repayment or we may not have the ability to borrow or obtain sufficient funds to replace the accelerated indebtedness on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We have not borrowed any funds under this agreement; however, as of February 8, 2018, $0.2 million of the amounts available under the agreement are restricted to support letters of credit issued in favor of our landlords.. If we sell additional shares, our stock price may decline as a result of the dilution which will occur to existing stockholders.. Until we are profitable, we will need significant additional funds to develop our business and sustain our operations. We sold shares of convertible preferred stock and warrants on several occasions, including July 2017, January 2017 and June 2016, and any additional sales of shares of our common stock or other securities exercisable into our common stock are likely to have a dilutive effect on some or all of our then existing stockholders. Resales of newly issued shares in the open market could also have the effect of lowering our stock price, thereby increasing the number of shares we may need to issue in the future to raise the same dollar amount and consequently further diluting our outstanding shares.. The perceived risk associated with the possible sale of a large number of shares could cause some of our stockholders to sell their stock, thus causing the price of our stock to decline. In addition, actual or anticipated downward pressure on our stock price due to actual or anticipated issuances or sales of stock could cause some institutions or individuals to engage in short sales of our common stock, which may itself cause the price of our stock to decline.. If our stock price declines, we may be unable to raise additional capital. A sustained inability to raise capital could force us to go out of business. Significant declines in the price of our common stock could also impair our ability to attract and retain qualified employees, reduce the liquidity of our common stock and result in the delisting of our common stock from The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC, or Nasdaq.. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and is likely to be volatile in the future.. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile. For the two-year period ended December 31, 2017, our stock price has fluctuated from a low of $1.45 to a high of $18.88, as adjusted for stock splits during that time. The market price for our common stock will be affected by a number of factors, including:. • the effectiveness of the GSK Collaboration announced in January 2018, particularly the achievement of development and commercialization milestones;. • the denial or delay of regulatory clearances or approvals for our products under development or receipt of regulatory approval of competing products;. • our ability to accomplish clinical, regulatory and other product development and commercialization milestones and to do so in accordance with our timing estimates;. • changes in policies affecting third-party coverage and reimbursement in the United States and other countries;. 26. • changes in government regulations and standards affecting the medical device industry and our products;. • ability of our products to achieve market success;. • the performance of third-party contract manufacturers and component suppliers;. • actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors;. • announcements of new products, technological innovations or product advancements by us or our competitors;. • developments with respect to patents and other intellectual property rights;. • sales of common stock or other securities by us or our stockholders in the future;. • additions or departures of key scientific or management personnel;. • disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies;. • trading volume of our common stock;. • regulatory inquiries or developments affecting our products;. • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, failure to obtain or maintain analyst coverage of our common stock or our failure to achieve analyst earnings estimates;. • public statements by analysts or clinicians regarding their perceptions of our clinical results or the effectiveness of our products;. • decreases in market valuations of medical device companies; and. • general market conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors.. The stock prices of many companies in the medical device industry have experienced wide fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities can result in securities class action litigation against a company. If class action litigation is initiated against us, we may incur substantial costs and our management's attention may be diverted from our operations, which could significantly harm our business.. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with the continued listing standard of The Nasdaq Capital Market.. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with the standards that we are required to meet in order to maintain a listing of our common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market. On February 2, 2017, we received a notice from the Listing Qualifications Department of the Nasdaq Stock Market indicating that, for the preceding 30 consecutive business days, the bid price for our common stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share required for continued inclusion on The Nasdaq Capital Market under Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(a)(2). The notification letter stated that pursuant to Nasdaq Listing Rule 5810(c)(3)(A) the Company would be afforded 180 calendar days, or until August 1, 2017, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement.. We regained compliance with this requirement on May 25, 2017, after implementing a reverse split of our common stock. If we fail to continue to meet all applicable Nasdaq Capital Market requirements in the future and Nasdaq determines to delist our common stock, the delisting could substantially decrease trading in our common stock and adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock; adversely affect our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms, if at all, for the continuation of our operations; and harm our business. Additionally, the market price of our common stock may decline further and stockholders may lose some or all of their investment.. If we fail to maintain compliance with any Nasdaq listing requirements, we could be delisted and our stock would be considered a penny stock under regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and would therefore be subject to rules that impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell our securities. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by these requirements could discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of our common stock and your ability to sell our securities in the secondary market.. .. 27. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law, and the shareholder rights plan that we adopted in 2007, may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could affect our stock price adversely and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our Company or changes in our Board of Directors that our stockholders might consider favorable. Some of these provisions:. • authorize the issuance of preferred stock which can be created and issued by the Board of Directors without prior stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of our common stock;. • provide for a classified Board of Directors, with each director serving a staggered three-year term;. • prohibit our stockholders from filling board vacancies, calling special stockholder meetings, or taking action by written consent;. • provide for the removal of a director only with cause and by the affirmative vote of the holders of 75% or more of the shares then entitled to vote at an election of our directors; and. • require advance written notice of stockholder proposals and director nominations.. We have also adopted a shareholder rights plan that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or could discourage a third party from acquiring, us or a large block of our common stock. A third party that acquires 15% or more of our common stock could suffer substantial dilution of its ownership interest under the terms of the shareholder rights plan through the issuance of common stock to all stockholders other than the acquiring person.. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our Board of Directors or initiate actions that are opposed by our then-current Board of Directors, including a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving our Company. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our Board of Directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. We do not intend to pay cash dividends.. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of our credit facility preclude us from paying any dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be our stockholders' sole source of potential gain for the foreseeable future."
