[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. A continued reduction in the volume of mall traffic could significantly reduce the Company's sales and leave it with unsold inventory, reducing the Company's profits or creating losses.. Many of the Company's stores are located in shopping malls. Sales at these stores are derived, in part, from the volume of traffic in those malls. The Company's sales volume and store traffic will be adversely affected by a continued decrease in the popularity of malls or other shopping centers in which the Company's stores are located, the closing of anchor stores important to driving mall traffic and therefore the Company's business, a decline in popularity of other stores in the malls or shopping centers in which the Company's stores are located, or a deterioration in the financial condition of shopping center operators or developers which could, for example, limit their ability to invest in improvements and finance tenant improvements for the Company and other retailers. Sales volume and mall traffic may be adversely affected by economic downturns in a particular area, competition from internet retailers, non-mall retailers and other malls where the Company does not have stores. A continued reduction in mall traffic as a result of these or any other factors could materially adversely affect the Company's business.. If the Company is not able to respond to fashion trends in a timely manner, develop new merchandise or launch new product lines successfully, it may be left with unsold inventory, experience decreased profits or incur losses or suffer reputational harm to its brand image.. The Company's success depends in part on management's ability to anticipate and respond to changing fashion tastes and consumer demands and to translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product offerings. Customer tastes and fashion trends change rapidly. If the Company is unable to successfully identify or react to changing styles or trends and misjudges the market for its. 11. Table of Contents. products or any new product lines, its sales may be lower, gross margins may be lower and the Company may be faced with a significant amount of unsold finished goods inventory. In response, the Company may be forced to increase its marketing promotions or price markdowns, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. The Company's brand image may also suffer if customers believe that it is no longer able to offer the latest fashions. The Company's Eva Mendes Collection and Gabrielle Union Collection are affiliated with celebrities. If the Company experiences an unplanned interruption in the collaboration with Eva Mendes or Gabrielle Union, for any reason, it may result in a decrease in net sales and profitability.. Economic conditions may cause a decline in business and consumer spending which could adversely affect the Company's business and financial performance.. The Company's business is impacted by general economic conditions and their effect on consumer confidence and the level of consumer spending on the merchandise the Company offers. These economic factors include recessionary cycles, interest rates, currency exchange rates, economic growth, wage rates, unemployment levels, energy prices, availability of consumer credit, and consumer confidence, among others. Economic conditions could negatively affect consumer purchases of the Company's merchandise and adversely impact the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Economic conditions could also negatively impact the Company's merchandise vendors and their ability to deliver products and sustain profits and sufficient liquidity. To counteract potential cash flow problems, the Company's merchandise vendors may require letters of credit or attempt to increase prices, pass through increased costs or seek some other form of relief, which may adversely impact the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, economic conditions could negatively impact the Company's retail landlords and their ability to maintain their shopping centers in a first-class condition and otherwise perform their obligations, which could negatively impact traffic in the Company's stores leading to a decrease in sales and profitability.. The raw materials used to manufacture the Company's products and its distribution and labor costs are subject to availability constraints and price volatility, which could result in increased costs.. The raw materials used to manufacture the Company's products are subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by high demand for petroleum-based synthetic fabrics, weather, supply conditions, government regulations, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. The Company sources nearly all of its merchandise from three countries, with China, Vietnam and Indonesia representing approximately 97% of all merchandise purchases during fiscal year 2017. Any one of these countries could experience increased inflationary pressure, which could lead to increased costs for the Company. In addition, the Company's transportation and labor costs are subject to price volatility caused by the price of oil, supply of labor, governmental regulations, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. Increases in demand for, or the price of, raw materials, distribution services and labor, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Fluctuations in comparable store sales in any one of the Company's channels, including New York & Company stores, Outlets and eCommerce, or fluctuations in the Company's results of operations could cause the price of the Company's common stock to decline substantially.. A store is included in the comparable store sales calculation after it has completed 13 full fiscal months of operations from the store's opening date or once it has been reopened after remodeling if the gross square footage did not change by more than 20%. Sales from the Company's eCommerce store are included in comparable store sales. In addition, recognized royalty revenue and the amortization of signing bonuses received in connection with the new ADS Agreement are also included in comparable store sales.. 12. Table of Contents. The Company's results of operations have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to fluctuate in the future. The Company cannot ensure that it will be able to achieve consistency in its future sales and cannot ensure a high level of comparable store sales in the future.. The Company's comparable store sales and results of operations are affected by a variety of factors, including but not limited to:. <U+0095> fashion trends;    <U+0095> mall traffic;    <U+0095> the Company's ability to effectively market to its customers and drive traffic both online and into its stores;     <U+0095> calendar shifts of holiday or seasonal periods;    <U+0095> the effectiveness of the Company's supply chain and inventory management;    <U+0095> changes in the Company's merchandise mix;    <U+0095> the timing of promotional events;    <U+0095> weather conditions;    <U+0095> changes in general economic conditions and consumer spending patterns;    <U+0095> the Company's ability to retain, recruit and train qualified personnel; and    <U+0095> actions of competitors or mall anchor tenants.. If the Company's future comparable store sales fail to meet expectations, then the market price of the Company's common stock could decline substantially.. The Company's net sales, operating income and inventory levels fluctuate on a seasonal basis and decreases in sales or margins during the Company's peak seasons could have a disproportionate effect on its overall financial condition and results of operations.. The Company's business experiences seasonal fluctuations in net sales and operating income, with a significant portion of its operating income typically realized during its fourth quarter. Any decrease in sales or margins during this period could have a disproportionate effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. For further information related to seasonality and quarterly results, please refer to Note 14, \"Quarterly Results,\" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Seasonal fluctuations also affect the Company's inventory levels. The Company must carry a significant amount of inventory, especially before the holiday season selling period in the fourth quarter and prior to the Easter and Mother's Day holidays toward the latter part of the first quarter and beginning of the second quarter. If the Company is not successful in selling its inventory, it may have to write down the value of its inventory or sell it at significantly reduced prices or the Company may not be able to sell such inventory at all, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. Since the Company relies significantly on international sources of production, it is at risk from a variety of factors that could leave it with inadequate or excess inventories, resulting in decreased profits or losses.. The Company purchases apparel and accessories in international markets, with a significant portion coming from China, Vietnam and Indonesia. Any major changes in United States tax policy or trade relations, such as the disallowance of tax deductions for imported merchandise or the imposition of unilateral tariffs on imported goods, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business,. 13. Table of Contents. results of operations and liquidity. The Company does not have any long-term merchandise supply contracts and many of its imports are subject to existing or potential duties and tariffs. The Company competes with other companies for production facilities.. The U.S. government is contemplating various actions regarding trade with China, including the possibility of levying various tariffs on imports from China. The Company sources approximately 60% of its goods from China so any tariffs or other trade restrictions impacting the import of apparel and accessories from China could have a material adverse impact on the Company.. The Company also faces a variety of other risks generally associated with doing business in international markets and importing merchandise from abroad, such as:. <U+0095> political or labor instability in countries where vendors are located;    <U+0095> political or military conflict involving the United States, which could cause a delay in the transportation of the Company's products and an increase in transportation costs;    <U+0095> heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject imported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods or could result in decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to lost sales and damage to the reputation of the Company's brand;    <U+0095> natural disasters, disease epidemics and health related concerns, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas;    <U+0095> the migration and development of manufacturers, which can affect where the Company's products are or will be produced;     <U+0095> imposition of regulations relating to imports and the Company's ability to adjust in a timely manner to changes in trade regulations, which among other things, could limit the Company's ability to source products from countries that have the labor and expertise needed to manufacture its products on a cost-effective basis;     <U+0095> imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports;    <U+0095> labor disputes, such as labor strikes or unrest or disruptions at the ports through which the Company imports its goods; and     <U+0095> currency volatility.. Any of the foregoing factors, or a combination thereof, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business.. The Company's manufacturers may be unable to manufacture and deliver products in a timely manner or meet its quality standards, which could result in lost sales, cancellation charges or excessive markdowns.. The Company purchases apparel and accessories directly from third-party manufacturers and in some instances from importers. The Company utilized three major apparel agents, which together represented approximately 74% of the Company's merchandise purchases made during fiscal year 2017; however, no individual factory represented more than approximately 6% of the Company's merchandise purchases. The Company expects to continue to utilize three major apparel agents for a large portion of its merchandise in fiscal year 2018, while maintaining a broad factory base, in order to reduce costs, maximize production and logistics assistance, and increase speed to market without sacrificing quality. Similar to most other specialty retailers, the Company has short selling seasons for much of its inventory. Factors outside of the Company's control, such as manufacturing or shipping delays or. 14. Table of Contents. quality problems, could disrupt merchandise deliveries and result in lost sales, product recalls, cancellation charges or excessive markdowns.. The Company plans to open a select number of new stores, while relocating and remodeling/refreshing a portion of its existing store base annually. The Company may not be able to successfully open new stores, or relocate or remodel/refresh existing stores on a timely basis or at all. In addition, opening new stores and relocating or remodeling/refreshing existing stores may strain its resources and cause the performance of its existing stores to suffer.. The Company plans to open a select number of new stores, while relocating and remodeling/refreshing a portion of its existing store base annually. The success of this strategy is dependent upon, among other things, the identification of suitable markets and sites for store locations, the negotiation of acceptable lease and renewal terms, including the renegotiation of existing rent concessions, the hiring, training and retention of competent sales personnel, and the effective management of inventory to meet the needs of new and existing stores on a timely basis. To the extent that the Company's new store openings are in existing markets, the Company may experience reduced net sales volumes in existing stores in those markets. The Company expects to fund its new stores through cash flow from operations and, if necessary, by borrowings under its revolving credit facility; however, if the Company experiences a decline in performance, the Company may slow or discontinue store openings. The Company may not be able to successfully execute any of these strategies on a timely basis. If the Company fails to successfully implement these strategies, its financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected.. In addition, continued consolidation in the commercial retail real estate market could affect the Company's ability to successfully negotiate favorable lease and renewal terms for its stores in the future. Should significant consolidation continue, a large portion of the Company's store base could be concentrated with one or a few entities that could then be in a position to dictate unfavorable terms due to their significant negotiating leverage. If the Company is unable to negotiate favorable lease terms with these entities, this could affect its ability to profitably operate its stores, which could adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. Because of the Company's focus on keeping its inventory at the forefront of fashion trends, extreme and/or unseasonable weather conditions could have a disproportionately large effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations because it would be forced to mark down inventory.. Extreme weather conditions in the areas in which the Company's stores are located could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, heavy snowfall or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period might make it difficult for the Company's customers to travel to its stores. The Company's business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. For example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could render a portion of the Company's inventory incompatible with those unseasonable conditions. These prolonged unseasonable weather conditions could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. If third parties who manage some aspects of the Company's business do not adequately perform their functions, the Company might experience disruptions in its business, leaving it with inadequate or excess inventories, among other adverse effects, resulting in decreased profits or losses.. L Brands handles the distribution of the Company's merchandise through its distribution facility in Columbus, Ohio pursuant to a transition services agreement. The efficient operation of the Company's stores is dependent on its ability to distribute merchandise to locations throughout the United States in a timely manner. The Company depends on L Brands to receive, sort, pack and distribute substantially. 15. Table of Contents. all of the Company's merchandise. As part of the transition services agreement, L Brands contracts with third-party transportation companies to deliver the Company's merchandise from international ports to their warehouses and to the Company's stores. Any failure by any of these third parties to respond adequately to the Company's warehousing and distribution needs would disrupt the Company's operations and negatively impact its profitability.. Additional services were also provided by L Brands and its subsidiaries and affiliates pursuant to the transition services agreement. IPS assisted the Company with its monitoring of country of origin and point of fabrication compliance for U.S. Customs up until September 2017, at which point the Company launched the Compliance Program. Since the launch of the Compliance Program, the Company's in-house compliance team confirms, in partnership with various third party providers, country of origin and point of fabrication compliance for U.S. Customs. Any failure of the Company, or its third party providers, to fulfill their obligations under the Compliance Program, could disrupt the Company's operations and negatively impact its profitability. As of February 3, 2018, the sourcing of Fashion to Figure merchandise was not monitored under the Compliance Program which may result in a heightened risk of disruptions in the Company's business. The Company plans to incorporate Fashion to Figure into the Compliance Program during fiscal year 2018.. Under the transition services agreement, as amended, these services will terminate upon the earliest of the following: (i) 24 months from the date that L Brands notifies the Company that L Brands wishes to terminate the services; (ii) 24 months from the date that the Company notifies L Brands that the Company wishes to terminate the services; (iii) 60 days after the Company has given notice to L Brands that L Brands has failed to perform any material obligations under the agreement and such failure shall be continuing; (iv) 30 days after L Brands has given notice to the Company that the Company has failed to perform any material obligations under the agreement and such failure shall be continuing; (v) within 75 days of receipt of the annual proposed changes to the agreement schedules which outline the cost methodologies and estimated costs of the services for the coming year, if such proposed changes would result in a significant increase in the amount of service costs that the Company would be obligated to pay; (vi) 15 months after a change of control of the Company, at the option of L Brands; or (vii) upon reasonable notice under the prevailing circumstances by the Company to L Brands after a disruption of services due to force majeure that cannot be remedied or restored within a reasonable period of time. The Company believes that these services are provided at a competitive price and the Company anticipates continuing to use L Brands for these services. The Company's failure to successfully replace the services could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and prospects.. The Company uses a third party for its eCommerce operations, including order management, order fulfillment, customer care, and channel management services. A failure by the third party to adequately manage the Company's eCommerce operations may negatively impact the Company's profitability.. The Company may rely on third parties for the implementation and/or management of certain aspects of its information technology infrastructure. Failure by any of these third parties to implement and/or manage the Company's information technology infrastructure effectively could disrupt its operations and negatively impact its profitability.. The Company relies on a third party to administer its proprietary credit card program. The inability of the administration company to effectively service the credit card program could materially limit credit availability for the Company's customers, which would negatively impact the Company's revenues and, consequently, its profitability.. A work stoppage resulting from, among other things, a dispute over a collective bargaining agreement covering employees of a third party relied on by the Company or employees of the Company, may cause disruptions in the Company's business and negatively impact its profitability.. 16. Table of Contents. The Company's marketing efforts rely upon the use of customer information. Restrictions on the availability or use of customer information could adversely affect the Company's marketing program, which could result in lost sales and a decrease in profits.. The Company uses its customer database to market to its customers. Any limitations imposed on the use of such consumer data, whether imposed by federal or state governments or business partners, could have an adverse effect on the Company's future marketing activity. In addition, while the Company is compliant with Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards (\"PCI DSS\"), to the extent the Company's or its business partners' security procedures and protection of customer information prove to be insufficient or inadequate, the Company may become subject to litigation or other claims, which could expose it to liability and cause damage to its reputation or brand.. The Company relies on its manufacturers to use acceptable ethical business practices, and if they fail to do so, the New York & Company brand name could suffer reputational harm and the Company's sales could decline or its inventory supply could be interrupted.. The Company requires its manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices, product quality and safety, and environmental compliance. Additionally, the Company imposes upon its business partners operating guidelines that require additional obligations in order to promote ethical business practices. The Company's in-house compliance team, staff of third party inspection services companies, and the staff of the Company's non-exclusive buying agents and importers periodically visit and monitor the operations of the Company's manufacturers to determine compliance. However, the Company does not control its manufacturers or their labor and other business practices. If one of the Company's manufacturers violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the United States, the shipment of finished products to the Company could be interrupted, orders could be canceled, relationships could be terminated and the Company's reputation could be damaged. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the Company's revenues and, consequently, its results of operations.. The Company is subject to numerous laws and regulations, including federal and state minimum wage laws, that could affect its operations. Changes in such laws and regulations could affect its profitability and impact the operation of its business through delayed shipments of its goods, increased costs, fines or penalties.. The Company is subject to employment laws and regulations, including minimum wage requirements, intellectual property laws (including those relating to advertising and promotions, privacy and product safety), truth-in-lending and other laws and regulations with respect to the operation of the Company's stores and business generally, such as zoning and occupancy ordinances governing the importation and exportation of merchandise and the use of the Company's proprietary credit cards. In addition, the Company is subject to Securities and Exchange Commission rules and regulations, state laws, Sarbanes-Oxley requirements, new rules and regulations issued pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, other U.S. public company regulations, and various other requirements mandated for the textiles and apparel industries such as the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, California's Proposition 65 and similar state laws. Although the Company monitors changes in these laws, if these laws change without the Company's knowledge, or are violated by the Company's employees, importers, buying agents, manufacturers or distributors, the Company could experience delays in shipments and receipt of goods or be subject to fines or other penalties under the controlling laws or regulations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. On April 4, 2016, the State of California passed legislation raising the hourly minimum wage to $15 by the end of year 2022. On the same day, the State of New York enacted similar legislation increasing the hourly minimum wage to $15 in New York City by the end of year 2018, and in other. 17. Table of Contents. parts of the state by the end of year 2021. Such legislation requires mandatory annual increases to the hourly minimum wage in the interim. As a result, on January 1, 2017 and again on January 1, 2018, the Company increased the hourly minimum wage in California, New York City, and other parts of New York State, as well as a number of other states, as required. In addition, Congress and many states are still considering cybersecurity legislation that, if enacted, could impose additional obligations upon the Company.. Compliance with changes in these laws or regulations, including increasing minimum wage requirements throughout the United States, could result in increased costs to the Company and could impact operational efficiency, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The Company may be unable to compete favorably in the highly competitive retail industry, and if it loses customers to its competitors, its sales could decrease causing a decrease in profits or losses.. The sale of apparel and accessories is highly competitive. Increased competition could result in price reductions, increased marketing expenditures and loss of market share, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The Company competes for sales with a broad range of other retailers, including individual and chain fashion specialty stores, department stores, and international retailers opening large numbers of stores in the United States. In addition to the traditional store-based retailers, the Company also competes with direct marketers that sell similar lines of merchandise and target customers through catalogs and eCommerce.. Some of the Company's competitors may have greater financial, marketing and other resources available to them. In many cases, the Company's competitors sell their products in stores that are located in the same shopping malls as the Company's stores. In addition to competing for sales, the Company competes for favorable site locations and lease terms in shopping malls.. The Company may be unable to protect its trademarks, which could diminish the value of its brand.. The Company's trademarks are important to its success and competitive position. The Company's major trademarks are New York & Company, NY&C, NY Style, Soho New York & Company Jeans, Lerner, and Fashion to Figure, and are protected in the United States and in some cases internationally. The Company engages in the following steps to protect and enforce its trademarks: file and prosecute trademark applications for registration in those countries where the marks are not yet registered; respond to office actions and examining attorneys in those countries where the marks are not yet registered; maintain its trademark portfolio in the United States; file statements of use, renewal documents, assignments, policing of marks and third party infringements; and handle the initiation and defense of opposition and/or cancellation proceedings. The Company is susceptible to others imitating the Company's products and infringing on the Company's intellectual property rights. Imitation or counterfeiting of the Company's products or other infringement of the Company's intellectual property rights could diminish the value of its brand or otherwise adversely affect its revenues. The actions the Company has taken to establish and protect its trademarks may not be adequate to prevent imitation of its products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate its trademarks or block sales of its products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. In addition, others may assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of the Company or in marks that are similar to the Company's or marks that the Company licenses and/or markets and the Company may not be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to its satisfaction. In some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to the Company's marks because the laws of certain countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights. 18. Table of Contents. to similar marks. Failure to protect the Company's trademarks could result in a material adverse effect on the Company's business.. The Company relies on its information technology infrastructure, which includes third party and internally developed software, and purchased or leased hardware that support the Company's information technology, cybersecurity and various business processes. The Company's business, reputation and brand image could suffer if its infrastructure fails to perform as intended.. The Company relies on purchased or leased hardware and software licensed from third parties or internally developed in order to manage its business. The Company's ability to maintain and upgrade its information technology infrastructure is critical to the success of its business and the continued enhancement of its omni-channel retail strategy. This hardware and software may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Any disruptions to the Company's infrastructure or loss of the right to use any of this hardware or software could affect the Company's operations, which could negatively affect the Company's business until corrected or until equivalent technology is either developed by the Company or, if available, is identified, obtained and integrated. In addition, the software underlying the Company's operations can contain undetected errors. The Company may be forced to modify its operations until such problems are corrected and, in some cases, may need to implement enhancements to correct errors that it does not detect. Problems with the software underlying the Company's operations could result in loss of revenue, unexpected expenses and capital costs, diversion of resources, loss of market share and damage to the Company's reputation which could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Furthermore, the Company's information systems initiatives and omni-channel retail strategy are complex and require managerial and financial expertise to implement successfully. If the Company is unable to successfully implement new information system initiatives and execute its omni-channel retail strategy, or if the Company's customers are not provided with the intended benefits, the Company's financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. The Company and third parties that manage portions of the Company's secure data are subject to cybersecurity risks and incidents. The Company's business involves the storage and transmission of customers' personal information, shopping preferences and credit card information, in addition to employee information and the Company's financial and strategic data. The protection of the Company's customer, employee and Company data is vitally important to the Company. While the Company has implemented measures to prevent and detect security breaches and cyber incidents, and continues to invest in the fortification of its information systems, networks and infrastructure, any failure of these measures and any failure of third parties that assist the Company in managing its secure data could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Because the Company's brand is associated with all of its New York & Company merchandise in addition to its stores, the Company's success depends heavily on the value associated with its brand. The New York & Company name is integral to the Company's existing business, as well as to the implementation of its strategy for growing and expanding its business. The New York & Company brand could be adversely affected if the Company's public image or reputation were to be tarnished, which could result in a material adverse effect on the Company's business. If the value associated with the Company's brand were to diminish, the Company's sales could decrease, causing decreased profits or losses.. Risks associated with the Company's eCommerce store.. The Company operates an online store at www.nyandcompany.com, which is integral to the success of the Company's omni-channel retail strategy and where it sells its largest assortment of its merchandise. The Company's eCommerce operations are subject to numerous risks, including. 19. Table of Contents. unanticipated operating problems, reliance on third-party computer hardware and software providers, system failures, cybersecurity incidents and the need to invest in additional computer systems. The eCommerce operations also involve other risks that could have an impact on the Company's results of operations, including but not limited to diversion of sales from the Company's other stores, rapid technological change, liability for online content, credit card fraud and risks related to the failure of the computer systems that operate the website and its related support systems. If the Company is unable to successfully address and respond to these risks, revenues could be lost, costs could increase, and the Company's reputation may be damaged.. If the Company is unable to successfully develop and maintain a relevant and reliable omni-channel shopping experience for its customers, the Company's reputation could be adversely affected, sales could be lost and its profits could decrease.. One of the Company's long-term growth initiatives is the expansion of the omni-channel shopping experience it provides customers through the integration of its retail stores, eCommerce store and mobile applications. Omni-channel retailing is rapidly evolving and the Company's success depends on its ability to anticipate and implement innovations in customer experience and logistics in order to appeal to customers who increasingly rely on multiple channels to meet their shopping needs. If the Company is unable to innovate and successfully implement its omni-channel initiatives or does not meet customer expectations, revenues could be lost, costs could increase, and the Company's reputation may be damaged.. The Company is subject to customer payment-related risks that could increase its operating costs, expose it to fraud or theft, subject it to potential liability and potentially disrupt its business.. The Company accepts payments using a variety of methods, including cash, checks, credit and debit cards, PayPal, its private label credit cards and gift cards. Acceptance of these payment options subjects the Company to rules, regulations, contractual obligations and compliance requirements, including payment network rules and operating guidelines, data security standards and certification requirements, and rules governing electronic funds transfers. These requirements may change over time or be reinterpreted, making compliance more difficult or costly. The Company completed the implementation of the chip-and-PIN (or signature) technology in all of its stores and received certification during the third quarter of fiscal year 2016. The payment methods that the Company offers also subject it to potential fraud and theft by criminals. As a result, a data breach could have a material adverse effect on the Company's brand image, results of operations and financial condition.. The covenants in the Company's revolving credit facility impose restrictions that may limit its operating and financial flexibility.. The Company's credit facility contains a number of significant restrictions and covenants that limit its ability to:. <U+0095> incur additional indebtedness;    <U+0095> declare dividends, make distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock, including the Company's common stock, or to make certain other restricted payments or investments;    <U+0095> sell assets, including capital stock of restricted subsidiaries;    <U+0095> agree to payment restrictions affecting the Company's restricted subsidiaries;    <U+0095> consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of the Company's assets;    <U+0095> incur liens;    <U+0095> alter the nature of the Company's business;. 20. Table of Contents. <U+0095> enter into sale/leaseback transactions;    <U+0095> conduct transactions with affiliates; and    <U+0095> designate the Company's subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries.. In addition, the Company's credit facility include other and more restrictive covenants and prohibit it from prepaying its other indebtedness while indebtedness under its credit facility is outstanding. The agreement governing the Company's credit facility also requires it to achieve specified financial and operating results and maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. The Company's ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond the Company's control.. The restrictions contained in the agreement governing the Company's credit facility could:. <U+0095> limit the Company's ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet capital needs or otherwise restrict its activities or business plans; and    <U+0095> adversely affect the Company's ability to finance its operations, strategic acquisitions, investments or other capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in the Company's interest.. A breach of any of these restrictive covenants or the Company's inability to comply with the required financial ratios could result in a default under the agreement governing its credit facility. If a default occurs, the lender under the credit facility may elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable.. The lender also has the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments the lender has to provide further borrowings. If the Company is unable to repay outstanding borrowings when due, the lender under the credit facility also has the right to proceed against the collateral, including the Company's available cash, granted to the lender to secure the indebtedness.. The Company may lose key personnel.. The Company believes that it has benefited from the leadership and experience of its Chief Executive Officer, Gregory J. Scott, and its other key executives. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on the business and the prospects of the Company. Competition for key personnel in the retail industry is intense and the Company's future success will depend upon its ability to retain, recruit and train qualified personnel.. Provisions in the Company's restated certificate of incorporation and Delaware law may delay or prevent the Company's acquisition by a third party.. The Company's restated certificate of incorporation contains a \"blank check\" preferred stock provision. Blank check preferred stock enables the Company's Board of Directors, without stockholders' approval, to designate and issue additional series of preferred stock with such dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights, including the right to issue convertible securities with no limitation on conversion, as the Company's Board of Directors may determine, including rights to dividends and proceeds in a liquidation that are senior to the common stock.. These provisions may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire a majority of the Company's outstanding voting common stock. The Company is also subject to certain provisions of Delaware law which could delay, deter or prevent the Company from entering into a merger, acquisition, tender offer, proxy contest or other transaction that might otherwise result in the Company's stockholders receiving a premium over the market price for their stock.. 21. Table of Contents"
