[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. Set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to stockholders and prospective investors. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and the various other factors identified in or incorporated by reference into any other documents filed by us with the SEC in evaluating our company and our business. The risks discussed herein can adversely affect our business, liquidity, operating results, prospects and financial condition. These risks could cause the market price of our securities to decline. The risk factors described below are not the only risks that may affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or not presently deemed material by us, also may adversely affect our business, liquidity, operating results, prospects and financial condition.. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Company. Declines in the market values of assets in our investment portfolio may adversely affect periodic reported results and credit availability, which may reduce earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to our stockholders.. The market value of our investment portfolio may move inversely with changes in interest rates. We anticipate that increases in interest rates will generally tend to decrease our net income and the market value of our investment portfolio. A significant percentage of the securities within our investment portfolio are classified for accounting purposes as \"available for sale.\" Changes in the market values of trading securities and residential mortgage loans, at fair value will be reflected in earnings and changes in the market values of available for sale securities will be reflected in stockholders' equity. As a result, a decline in market values of certain of our investment securities may reduce the book value of our assets. Moreover, if the decline in market value of an available for sale security is other than temporary, such decline will reduce earnings.. A decline in the market value of our interest-bearing assets may adversely affect us, particularly in instances where we have borrowed money based on the market value of those assets. If the market value of those assets declines, the lender may require us to post additional collateral to support the loan, which would reduce our liquidity and limit our ability to leverage our assets. In addition, if we are, or anticipate being, unable to post the additional collateral, we would have to sell the assets at a time when we might not otherwise choose to do so. In the event that we do not have sufficient liquidity to meet such requirements, lending institutions may accelerate indebtedness, increase interest rates and terminate our ability to borrow, any of which could result in a rapid deterioration of our financial condition and cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Moreover, if we liquidate the assets at prices lower than the amortized cost of such assets, we will incur losses.. The market values of our investments may also decline without any general increase in interest rates for a number of reasons, such as increases in defaults, actual or perceived increases in voluntary prepayments for those investments that we have that are subject to prepayment risk, a reduction in the liquidity of the assets and markets generally and widening of credit spreads, and adverse legislation or regulatory developments. If the market values of our investments were to decline for any reason, the value of your investment could also decline.. Difficult conditions in the mortgage and real estate markets, the financial markets and the economy generally have caused and may cause us to experience losses and these conditions may persist for the foreseeable future.. Our business is materially affected by conditions in the residential and commercial mortgage markets, the residential and commercial real estate markets, the financial markets and the economy generally. Furthermore, because a significant portion of our current assets and our targeted assets are credit sensitive, we believe the risks associated with our investments will be more acute during periods of economic slowdown, recession or market dislocations, especially if these periods are accompanied by declining real estate values and defaults. In prior years, concerns about the health of the global economy generally and the residential and commercial mortgage markets specifically, as well as inflation, energy costs, European sovereign debt, U.S. budget debates and geopolitical issues and the availability and cost of credit have contributed to increased volatility and uncertainty for the economy and financial markets. The residential and commercial mortgage markets were materially adversely affected by changes in the lending landscape during the financial market crisis of 2008, the severity of which was largely unanticipated by the markets, and there is no assurance that these markets will not worsen again.. 13. Table of Contents. In addition, an economic slowdown, delayed recovery or general disruption in the mortgage markets may result in decreased demand for residential and commercial property, which would likely further compress homeownership rates and place additional pressure on home price performance, while forcing commercial property owners to lower rents on properties with excess supply. We believe there is a strong correlation between home price growth rates and mortgage loan delinquencies. Moreover, to the extent that a property owner has fewer tenants or receives lower rents, such property owners will generate less cash flow on their properties, which reduces the value of their property and increases significantly the likelihood that such property owners will default on their debt service obligations. If the borrowers of our mortgage loans, the loans underlying certain of our investment securities or the commercial properties that we finance or in which we invest, default on their obligations, we may incur material losses on those loans or investment securities. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could adversely affect both our net interest income and our ability to acquire our targeted assets in the future on favorable terms or at all. The further deterioration of the mortgage markets, the residential or commercial real estate markets, the financial markets and the economy generally may result in a decline in the market value of our assets or cause us to experience losses related thereto, which may adversely affect our results of operations, the availability and cost of credit and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. An increase in interest rates may cause a decrease in the availability of certain of our targeted assets, which could adversely affect our ability to acquire targeted assets that satisfy our investment objectives and to generate income and pay dividends.. Rising interest rates generally reduce the demand for mortgage loans due to the higher cost of borrowing. A reduction in the volume of mortgage loans originated may affect the volume of targeted assets available to us, which could adversely affect our ability to acquire assets that satisfy our investment and business objectives. Rising interest rates may also cause our targeted assets that were issued or originated prior to an interest rate increase to provide yields that are below prevailing market interest rates. If rising interest rates cause us to be unable to acquire a sufficient volume of our targeted assets with a yield that is above our borrowing cost, our ability to satisfy our investment objectives and to generate income and pay dividends will be materially and adversely affected.. In addition, the RMBS and residential mortgage loans we invest in may be comprised of ARMs that are subject to periodic and lifetime interest rate caps. Periodic interest rate caps limit the amount an interest rate can increase during any given period. Lifetime interest rate caps limit the amount an interest rate can increase over the life of the security or loan. Our borrowings typically are not subject to similar restrictions. Accordingly, in a period of rapidly increasing interest rates, the interest rates paid on our borrowings could increase without limitation while interest rate caps could limit the interest rates on the Agency ARMs or residential mortgage loans comprised of ARMs in our portfolio. This problem is magnified for securities backed by, or residential mortgage loans comprised of, ARMs and hybrid ARMs that are not fully indexed. Further, certain securities backed by, or residential mortgage loans comprised of, ARMs and hybrid ARMs may be subject to periodic payment caps that result in a portion of the interest being deferred and added to the principal outstanding. As a result, the payments we receive on Agency ARMs backed by, or residential mortgage loans comprised of, ARMs and hybrid ARMs may be lower than the related debt service costs. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. Interest rate fluctuations will also cause variances in the yield curve, which may reduce our net income. The relationship between short-term and longer-term interest rates is often referred to as the \"yield curve.\" If short-term interest rates rise disproportionately relative to longer-term interest rates (a flattening of the yield curve), our borrowing costs may increase more rapidly than the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets. For example, because the Agency RMBS in our investment portfolio typically bear interest based on longer-term rates while our borrowings typically bear interest based on short-term rates, a flattening of the yield curve would tend to decrease our net income and the market value of these securities. Additionally, to the extent cash flows from investments that return scheduled and unscheduled principal are reinvested, the spread between the yields of the new investments and available borrowing rates may decline, which would likely decrease our net income. It is also possible that short-term interest rates may exceed longer-term interest rates (a yield curve inversion), in which event our borrowing costs may exceed our interest income and we could incur significant operating losses.. Prepayment rates can change, adversely affecting the performance of our assets.. The frequency at which prepayments (including both voluntary prepayments by the borrowers and liquidations due to defaults and foreclosures) occur on the residential mortgage loans we own and those that underlie our RMBS is difficult to predict and is affected by a variety of factors, including the prevailing level of interest rates as well as economic, demographic, tax, social, legal, legislative and other factors. Generally, borrowers tend to prepay their mortgages when prevailing mortgage rates fall below the interest rates on their mortgage loans.. 14. Table of Contents. In general, \"premium\" securities (securities whose market values exceed their principal or par amounts) are adversely affected by faster-than-anticipated prepayments because the above-market coupon that such premium securities carry will be earned for a shorter period of time. Generally, \"discount\" securities (securities whose principal or par amounts exceed their market values) are adversely affected by slower-than-anticipated prepayments. Since many RMBS will be discount securities when interest rates are high, and will be premium securities when interest rates are low, these RMBS may be adversely affected by changes in prepayments in any interest rate environment. Although we estimate prepayment rates to determine the effective yield of our assets and valuations, these estimates are not precise and prepayment rates do not necessarily change in a predictable manner as a function of interest rate changes.. The adverse effects of prepayments may impact us in various ways. First, particular investments, such as IOs, may experience outright losses in an environment of faster actual or anticipated prepayments. Second, particular investments may under-perform relative to any hedges that we may have constructed for these assets, resulting in a loss to us. In particular, prepayments (at par) may limit the potential upside of many RMBS to their principal or par amounts, whereas their corresponding hedges often have the potential for unlimited loss. Furthermore, to the extent that faster prepayment rates are due to lower interest rates, the principal payments received from prepayments will tend to be reinvested in lower-yielding assets, which may reduce our income in the long run. Therefore, if actual prepayment rates differ from anticipated prepayment rates, our business, financial condition and results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders could be materially adversely affected.. Some of the commercial real estate loans we may originate or invest in or that underlie our CMBS may allow the borrower to make prepayments without incurring a prepayment penalty and some may include provisions allowing the borrower to extend the term of the loan beyond the originally scheduled maturity. Because the decision to prepay or extend a commercial loan is typically controlled by the borrower, we may not accurately anticipate the timing of these events, which could affect the earnings and cash flows we anticipate and could impact our ability to finance these assets.. Increased levels of prepayments on the mortgages underlying structured mortgage-backed securities might decrease net interest income or result in a net loss, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders.. When we acquire structured mortgage-backed securities we anticipate that the underlying mortgages will prepay at a projected rate, generating an expected yield. When the prepayment rates on the mortgages underlying these securities are higher than expected, our returns on those securities may be materially adversely affected. For example, the value of an Agency IO is extremely sensitive to prepayments because holders of these securities do not have the right to receive any principal payments on the underlying mortgages. As a result, increased levels of prepayments on our Agency RMBS will negatively impact our net interest income and may result in a loss.. Interest rate mismatches between the interest-earning assets held in our investment portfolio and the borrowings used to fund the purchases of those assets may reduce our net income or result in a loss during periods of changing interest rates.. Certain of the assets held in our investment portfolio have a fixed coupon rate, generally for a significant period, and in some cases, for the average maturity of the asset. At the same time, our repurchase agreements and our borrowings typically provide for a payment reset period of 30 days or less. In addition, the average maturity of our borrowings generally will be shorter than the average maturity of the assets currently in our portfolio and certain other targeted assets in which we seek to invest. Historically, we have used swap agreements as a means for attempting to fix the cost of certain of our liabilities over a period of time; however, these agreements will generally not be sufficient to match the cost of all our liabilities against all of our investments. In the event we experience unexpectedly high or low prepayment rates on RMBS or other assets, our strategy for matching our assets with our liabilities is more likely to be unsuccessful which may result in reduced earnings or losses and reduced cash available for distribution to our stockholders.. Our investments include high yield or subordinated and lower rated securities that have greater risks of loss than other investments, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and cash available for dividends.. We own and seek to acquire higher yielding or subordinated or lower rated securities, including subordinated securities of CMBS or non-Agency RMBS, which involve a higher degree of risk than other investments. Numerous factors may affect a company's ability to repay its high yield or subordinated securities, including the failure to meet its business plan, a downturn in its industry or negative economic conditions. These assets may not be secured by mortgages or liens on assets. Our right to payment and security interest with respect to such assets may be subordinated to the payment rights and security interests of the senior lender. Therefore, we may be limited in our ability to enforce our rights to collect on these assets through a foreclosure of collateral.. 15. Table of Contents. Our direct and indirect investments in multi-family and other commercial properties are subject to the ability of the property owner to generate net income from operating the property as well as the risks of delinquency and foreclosure.. Our direct and indirect investments in multi-family or other commercial property are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure on the properties that underlie or back these investments, and risk of loss that may be greater than similar risks associated with loans made on the security of single-family residential property. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan or obligation secured by, or an equity interest in an entity that owns, an income-producing property typically is dependent primarily upon the successful operation of such property. If the net operating income of the subject property is reduced, the borrower's ability to repay the loan, or our ability to receive adequate returns on our investment, may be impaired. Net operating income of an income-producing property can be adversely affected by, among other things:. • tenant mix;. • success of tenant businesses;. • property management decisions;. • property location, condition, and design;. • new construction of competitive properties;. • a surge in homeownership rates;. • changes in laws that increase operating expenses or limit rents that may be charged;. • changes in national, regional or local economic conditions and/or specific industry segments, including the labor, credit and securitization markets;. • declines in regional or local real estate values;. • declines in regional or local rental or occupancy rates;. • increases in interest rates, real estate tax rates, and other operating expenses;. • costs of remediation and liabilities associated with environmental conditions;. • the potential for uninsured or underinsured property losses;. • changes in governmental laws and regulations, including fiscal policies, zoning ordinances and environmental legislation and the related costs of compliance; and. • acts of God, terrorist attacks, social unrest, and civil disturbances.. In the event of any default under a loan held directly by us, we will bear a risk of loss to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral and the outstanding principal and accrued interest of the mortgage loan, and any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow from operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Similarly, the CMBS, preferred equity and mezzanine loan and joint venture equity investments we own will be adversely affected by a default on any of the loans or other instruments that underlie those securities or that are secured by the related property. See \" - We invest in CMBS that are subordinate to more senior securities issued by the applicable securitization, which entails certain risks.\". In the event of the bankruptcy of a mortgage loan borrower, the mortgage loan to such borrower will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy court), and the lien securing the mortgage loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law. Foreclosure of a mortgage loan can be an expensive and lengthy process, which could have a substantial negative effect on our anticipated return on the foreclosed mortgage loan.. 16. Table of Contents. The preferred equity investments or mezzanine loan assets that we may acquire or originate will involve greater risks of loss than senior loans secured by income-producing properties.. We may acquire or originate mezzanine loans, which take the form of subordinated loans secured by second mortgages on the underlying property or loans secured by a pledge of the ownership interests of either the entity owning the property or a pledge of the ownership interests of the entity that owns the interest in the entity owning the property. We also may make preferred equity investments in the entity that owns the property. These types of assets involve a higher degree of risk than long-term senior mortgage lending secured by income-producing real property, because the loan may become unsecured or our equity investment may be effectively extinguished as a result of foreclosure by the senior lender. In addition, mezzanine loans and preferred equity investments are often used to achieve a very high leverage on large commercial projects, resulting in less equity in the property and increasing the risk of loss of principal or investment. If a borrower defaults on our mezzanine loan or debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our mezzanine loan or preferred equity investment will be satisfied only after the senior debt, in case of a mezzanine loan, or all senior and subordinated debt, in case of a preferred equity investment, is paid in full. Where senior debt exists, the presence of intercreditor arrangements may limit our ability to amend our loan documents, assign our loans, accept prepayments, exercise our remedies or control decisions made in bankruptcy proceedings relating to borrowers or preferred equity investors. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment, which could result in significant losses.. To the extent that due diligence is conducted on potential assets, such due diligence may not reveal all of the risks associated with such assets and may not reveal other weaknesses in such assets, which could lead to losses.. Before acquiring certain assets, such as whole mortgage loans, CMBS, or other mortgage-related or fixed income assets, we or the external manager responsible for the acquisition and management of such asset may decide to conduct (either directly or using third parties) certain due diligence. Such due diligence may include (i) an assessment of the strengths and weaknesses of the asset's credit profile, (ii) a review of all or merely a subset of the documentation related to the asset, or (iii) other reviews that we or the external manager may deem appropriate to conduct. There can be no assurance that we or the external manager will conduct any specific level of due diligence, or that, among other things, the due diligence process will uncover all relevant facts or that any purchase will be successful, which could result in losses on these assets, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. Our real estate assets are subject to risks particular to real property.. We own real estate and assets secured by real estate, and may in the future acquire more real estate, either through direct or indirect investments or upon a default of mortgage loans. Real estate assets are subject to various risks, including:. • acts of God, including earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters, which may result in uninsured losses;. • acts of war or terrorism, including the consequences of terrorist attacks, such as those that occurred on September 11, 2001;. • adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions; and. • changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances.. The occurrence of any of the foregoing or similar events may reduce our return from an affected property or asset and, consequently, materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. The lack of liquidity in certain of our assets may adversely affect our business.. A portion of the assets we own or acquire may be subject to legal, contractual and other restrictions on resale or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly-traded securities. For example, certain of our multi-family CMBS are held in a securitization trust and may not be sold or transferred until the note issued by the securitization trust matures or is repaid. The illiquidity of certain of our assets may make it difficult for us to sell such assets if the need or desire arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our assets. As a result, our ability to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions may be relatively limited, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. 17. Table of Contents. Our Level 2 portfolio investments are recorded at fair value based on market quotations from pricing services and brokers/dealers. Our Level 3 investments are recorded at fair value utilizing internal valuation models. The value of our securities, in particular our common stock, could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of these investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal.. All of our current portfolio investments are, and some of our future portfolio investments will be, in the form of securities or other investments that are not publicly traded. The fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. We currently value and will continue to value these investments on a quarterly basis at fair value as determined by our management based on market quotations from pricing services and brokers/dealers and/or internal valuation models. Because such quotations and valuations are inherently uncertain, they may fluctuate over short periods of time and are based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a public market for these securities existed. The value of our securities, in particular our common stock, could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of these investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal.. Our adoption of fair value option accounting could result in income statement volatility, which in turn, could cause significant market price and trading volume fluctuations for our securities.. We have determined that certain securitization trusts that issued certain of our multi-family CMBS or securitized debt are VIEs of which we are the primary beneficiary, and elected the fair value option on the assets and liabilities held within those securitization trusts. As a result, we are required to consolidate the underlying multi-family loan or securities, as applicable, related debt, interest income and interest expense of those securitization trusts in our financial statements, although our actual investments in these securitization trusts generally represent a small percentage of the total assets of the trusts. Prior to the year ended December 31, 2012, we historically accounted for the multi-family CMBS in our investment portfolio through accumulated other comprehensive income, pursuant to which unrealized gains and losses on those multi-family CMBS were reflected as an adjustment to stockholders' equity. However, the fair value option requires that changes in valuations in the assets and liabilities of those VIEs of which we are the primary beneficiary, such as the Consolidated K-Series, be reflected through our earnings. As we acquire additional multi-family CMBS assets in the future that are similar in structure and form to the Consolidated K-Series' assets or securitize investment securities owned by us, we may be required to consolidate the assets and liabilities of the issuing or securitization trust and would expect to elect the fair value option for those assets. Because of this, our earnings may experience greater volatility in the future as a decline in the fair value of the assets of any VIE that we consolidate in our financial statements could reduce both our earnings and stockholders' equity, which in turn, could cause significant market price and trading volume fluctuations for our securities.. Competition may prevent us from acquiring assets on favorable terms or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. Our net income largely depends on our ability to acquire our targeted assets at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs. In acquiring our targeted assets, we compete with other REITs, investment banking firms, savings and loan associations, banks, insurance companies, mutual funds, other lenders and other entities that purchase mortgage-related assets, many of which have greater financial resources than us. Additionally, many of our potential competitors are not subject to REIT tax compliance or required to maintain an exclusion from the Investment Company Act. As a result, we may not in the future be able to acquire sufficient quantities of our targeted assets at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. 18. Table of Contents. We may change our investment, financing, or hedging strategies and asset allocation and operational and management policies without stockholder consent, which may result in the purchase of riskier assets, the use of greater leverage or commercially unsound actions, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. We may change our investment strategy, hedging strategy and asset allocation and operational and management policies at any time without the consent of our stockholders, which could result in our purchasing assets or entering into hedging transactions that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the assets and hedging transactions described in this report. A change in our investment strategy or hedging strategy may increase our exposure to real estate values, interest rates, prepayment rates, credit risk and other factors. A change in our asset allocation could result in us purchasing assets in classes different from those described in this report. Our Board of Directors determines our operational policies and may amend or revise our policies, including those with respect to our acquisitions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions or approve transactions that deviate from these policies without a vote of, or notice to, our stockholders. In addition, our external manager has great latitude in making investment decisions on our behalf. Changes in our investment strategy, hedging strategy and asset allocation and operational and management policies could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. In connection with our operating and investment activity, we rely on third-party service providers to perform a variety of services, comply with applicable laws and regulations, and carry out contractual covenants and terms, the failure of which by any of these third-party service providers may adversely impact our business and financial results.. In connection with our business of acquiring and holding loans, engaging in securitization transactions, and investing in third-party issued securities, we rely on third-party service providers, including Headlands, to perform a variety of services, comply with applicable laws and regulations, and carry out contractual covenants and terms. For example, we rely on the mortgage servicers who service the mortgage loans we purchase as well as the mortgage loans underlying our CMBS to, among other things, collect principal and interest payments on such mortgage loans and perform loss mitigation services. In addition, legislation that has been enacted or that may be enacted in order to reduce or prevent foreclosures through, among other things, loan modifications may reduce the value of mortgage loans backing our CMBS or mortgage loans that we acquire. Mortgage servicers may be incentivized by the U.S. Government to pursue such loan modifications, as well as forbearance plans and other actions intended to prevent foreclosure, even if such loan modifications and other actions are not in the best interests of the beneficial owners of the mortgage loans. Mortgage servicers and other service providers, such as Headlands or our trustees, bond insurance providers, due diligence vendors and document custodians, may fail to perform or otherwise not perform in a manner that promotes our interests. As a result, we are subject to the risks associated with a third party's failure to perform, including failure to perform due to reasons such as fraud, negligence, errors, miscalculations, or insolvency.. We may be affected by deficiencies in foreclosure practices of third parties, as well as related delays in the foreclosure process.. One of the biggest risks overhanging the RMBS market has been uncertainty around the timing and ability of servicers to foreclose on defaulted loans, so that they can liquidate the underlying properties and ultimately pass the liquidation proceeds through to RMBS holders. Given the magnitude of the most recent housing crisis, and in response to the well-publicized failures of many servicers to follow proper foreclosure procedures (such as involving \"robo-signing\"), mortgage servicers are being held to much higher foreclosure-related documentation standards than they previously were. However, because many mortgages have been transferred and assigned multiple times (and by means of varying assignment procedures) throughout the origination, warehouse, and securitization processes, mortgage servicers are generally having much more difficulty furnishing the requisite documentation to initiate or complete foreclosures. This leads to stalled or suspended foreclosure proceedings, and ultimately additional foreclosure-related costs. Foreclosure-related delays also tend to increase ultimate loan loss severities as a result of property deterioration, amplified legal and other costs, and other factors. Many factors delaying foreclosure, such as borrower lawsuits and judicial backlog and scrutiny, are outside of a servicer's control and have delayed, and will likely continue to delay, foreclosure processing in both judicial states (where foreclosures require court involvement) and non-judicial states. The extension of foreclosure timelines also increases the inventory backlog of distressed homes on the market and creates greater uncertainty about housing prices. The concerns about deficiencies in foreclosure practices of servicers and related delays in the foreclosure process may impact our loss assumptions and affect the values of, and our returns on, our investments in RMBS and residential mortgage loans.. 19. Table of Contents. We rely on Headlands and certain of their key personnel to manage our distressed residential loan portfolio and may not find a suitable replacement if its respective management agreement with us is terminated or such key personnel are no longer available to us.. We are a self-advised company that acquires, originates, sells and manages our assets. However, we have at various times in our history outsourced the management of certain asset classes for which we have limited internal resources or experience. We presently utilize Headlands to manage our distressed residential loan portfolio. We have engaged Headlands because of the expertise of certain of its key personnel. The departure of certain senior officers of Headlands could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objectives with distressed residential loans. We are subject to the risk that Headlands will terminate its management agreement with us or that we may deem it necessary to terminate such agreement and that no suitable replacement will be found to manage our distressed residential loan portfolio and investment strategies on a timely basis or at all.. Pursuant to the terms of the Headlands Asset Management Agreement, Headlands is entitled to receive a management fee that is payable regardless of the performance of the assets they manage.. We will pay Headlands substantial base management fees, based on our invested capital regardless of the performance of the assets it manages for us. The payment of non-performance based compensation may reduce Headlands' incentive to devote the time and effort of its professionals to seeking profitable investment opportunities for our company, which could result in the under-performance of assets under its management and negatively affect our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders or to achieve capital appreciation.. Pursuant to the terms of the Headlands Asset Management Agreement, Headlands is generally entitled to receive an incentive fee, which may induce them to make certain investments, including speculative or high risk investments.. Under the terms of the Headlands Management Agreement, Headlands is entitled to receive incentive compensation based, in part, upon the achievement of targeted levels of net income. In evaluating investments and other management strategies, the opportunity to earn incentive compensation based on net income may lead Headlands to place undue emphasis on the maximization of net income at the expense of other criteria in order to achieve higher incentive compensation. Investments with higher yield potential are generally riskier or more speculative. This could result in increased risk to the value of our assets managed by Headlands.. We compete with our external manager's other clients for access to them.. Our external manager manages, and is expected to continue to manage, other client accounts with similar or overlapping investment strategies. In connection with the services provided to those accounts, our manager may be compensated more favorably than for the services provided under our external management agreement, and such discrepancies in compensation may affect the level of service provided to us by our external manager. Moreover, our external manager may have an economic interest in the accounts they manage or the investments they propose. As a result, we will compete with these other accounts and interests for access to our external manager and the benefits derived from those relationships. For the same reasons, the personnel of our external manager may be unable to dedicate a substantial portion of their time managing our investments to the extent they manage or are associated with any future investment vehicles not related to us.. Termination of the Headlands Management Agreement may be costly.. In certain cases, if we terminate the Headlands Management Agreement, Headlands has, subject to certain conditions, a right of first refusal to purchase the loans managed by them at the time of the termination, which could result in the disposition of assets when we otherwise would not choose to dispose of such assets.. The market price and trading volume of our securities may be volatile.. The market price of our securities is highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our securities may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Some of the factors that could result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our securities include, among other things: actual or anticipated changes in our current or future financial performance; actual or anticipated changes in our current or future dividend yield; and changes in market interest rates and general market and economic conditions. We cannot assure you that the market price of our securities will not fluctuate or decline significantly.. 20. Table of Contents. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level for our common stockholders and there are no assurances of our ability to pay dividends to common or preferred stockholders in the future.. We intend to pay quarterly dividends and to make distributions to our common stockholders in amounts such that all or substantially all of our taxable income in each year, subject to certain adjustments, is distributed. This, along with other factors, should enable us to qualify for the tax benefits accorded to a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level for our common stockholders and our ability to pay dividends may be harmed by the risk factors described herein. From July 2007 until April 2008, our Board of Directors elected to suspend the payment of quarterly dividends on our common stock. Our Board's decision reflected our focus on the elimination of operating losses through the sale of our mortgage lending business and the conservation of capital to build future earnings from our portfolio management operations. All distributions to our common stockholders will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT status and such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant from time to time. There are no assurances of our ability to pay dividends to our common or preferred stockholders in the future at the current rate or at all.. Future offerings of debt securities, which would rank senior to our common stock and preferred stock upon our liquidation, and future offerings of equity securities, which would dilute our existing stockholders and may be senior to our common stock for the purposes of dividend and liquidating distributions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by making offerings of debt or additional offerings of equity securities, including commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior or subordinated notes, convertible notes and classes of preferred stock or common stock. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our preferred stock and common stock, with holders of our preferred stock having priority over holders of our common stock. Additional equity and certain convertible notes offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, holders of our securities bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our securities and diluting their stock holdings in us.. Future sales of our stock or other securities with an equity component could have an adverse effect on the price of our securities.. We cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of our stock or other securities with an equity component, or the availability of shares for future issuance, on the market price of our common or preferred stock. Sales of substantial amounts of these securities, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our securities.. An increase in interest rates may have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. One of the factors that investors may consider in deciding whether to buy or sell our securities is our dividend rate (or expected future dividend rates) as a percentage of our common stock price, relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates increase, prospective investors may demand a higher dividend rate on our shares or seek alternative investments paying higher dividends or interest. As a result, interest rate fluctuations and capital market conditions can affect the market price of our securities independent of the effects such conditions may have on our portfolio.. Our investments could be adversely affected if one of our operating partners or property managers at one of the multi-family projects in which we have invested performs poorly, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. In general, with respect to our preferred and joint venture equity investments in, and mezzanine loans to, owners of multi-family properties, we expect to rely on our operating partners for the day-to-day management and maintenance of these properties. We will have no control or only limited influence over the day-to-day management and maintenance of such properties. Our operating partners are not fiduciaries to us, and in some cases, may have significantly less capital invested in a project than us. In addition, our operating partners engage property managers, which provide on-site management services. One or more of our operating partners or property managers may perform poorly in managing one or more of our project investments for a variety of reasons, including failure to properly adhere to budgets or properly consummate the property business plan. If one of our operating partners or property managers does not perform well at one of our projects, we may not be able to ameliorate the adverse effects of poor performance by terminating the operating partner or property manager and finding a replacement partner to manage these properties in a timely manner. In such an instance, our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make distributions to our stockholders could be materially adversely affected.. 21. Table of Contents. Actions of our operating partners could subject us to liabilities in excess of those contemplated or prevent us from taking actions which are in the best interests of our stockholders, which could result in lower investment returns to our stockholders.. We have entered into, and in the future may enter into, joint ventures with operating partners to acquire or improve properties. We may also make investments in properties through partnerships, co-tenancies or other co-ownership arrangements. Such investments may involve risks not otherwise present when acquiring real estate directly, including, for example:. • that our operating partners may share certain approval rights over major decisions;. • that our operating partners may at any time have economic or business interests or goals which are or which become inconsistent with our business interests or goals, including inconsistent goals relating to the sale of properties held in the joint venture or the timing of termination or liquidation of the joint venture;. • the possibility that our operating partner in a property might become insolvent or bankrupt;. • the possibility that we may incur liabilities as a result of an action taken by one of our operating partners;. • that one of our operating partners may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives, including our policy with respect to qualifying and maintaining our qualification as a REIT;. • disputes between us and our operating partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and directors from focusing their time and effort on our business, which may subject the properties owned by the applicable joint venture to additional risk;. • under certain joint venture arrangements, neither venture partner may have the power to control the venture, and an impasse could be reached which might have a negative influence on the joint venture; or. • that we will rely on our operating partners to provide us with accurate financial information regarding the performance of the joint venture properties in which we invest on a timely basis to enable us to satisfy our annual, quarterly and periodic reporting obligations under the Exchange Act and our operating partners and the joint venture entities in which we invest may have inadequate internal controls or procedures that could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and other requirements under the federal securities laws.. Actions by one of our operating partners or one of the property managers of the multi-family properties in which we invest, which are generally out of our control, might subject us to liabilities in excess of those contemplated and thus reduce our investment returns. If we have a right of first refusal or buy/sell right to buy out an operating partner, we may be unable to finance such a buy-out if it becomes exercisable or we may be required to purchase such interest at a time when it would not otherwise be in our best interest to do so. If our interest is subject to a buy/sell right, we may not have sufficient cash, available borrowing capacity or other capital resources to allow us to elect to purchase the interest of our operating partner that is subject to the buy/sell right, in which case we may be forced to sell our interest as the result of the exercise of such right when we would otherwise prefer to keep our interest. Finally, we may not be able to sell our interest in a joint venture if we desire to exit the venture.. Short-term apartment leases expose us to the effects of declining market rent, which could adversely impact our earnings.. Substantially all of the apartment leases at the properties we invest in are for terms of one year or less. Because these leases generally permit the residents to leave at the end of the lease term without penalty, our earnings may be impacted more quickly by declines in market rents than if these leases were for longer terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. 22. Table of Contents. The revenues generated by our investments in multi-family properties are significantly influenced by demand for multi-family properties generally, and a decrease in such demand will likely have a greater adverse effect on our revenues than if we owned a more diversified portfolio.. A substantial portion of our investment portfolio is comprised of direct or indirect investments in multi-family properties, and we expect that our portfolio going forward will continue to heavily focus on these assets. As a result, we are subject to risks inherent in investments concentrated in a single industry, and a decrease in the demand for multi-family apartment properties would likely have a greater adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations than if we invested in a more diversified portfolio. Resident demand at multi-family apartment properties may be adversely affected by, among other things, reduced household spending, reduced home prices, high unemployment, the rate of household formation or population growth in the markets in which we invest, changes in interest rates or the changes in supply of, or demand for, similar or competing multi-family apartment properties in an area. Reduced resident demand could cause downward pressure on occupancy and market rents at the properties in which we invest, which could cause a decrease in our revenue. In addition, decreased demand could also impair the ability of our joint venture properties or operating partners to satisfy their substantial debt service obligations or make distributions or payments of principal or interest to us, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. Our existing goodwill could become impaired, which may require us to take significant non-cash charges.. We evaluate our goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if circumstances indicate potential impairment may have occurred. We also evaluate, at least quarterly, whether events or circumstances have occurred subsequent to the annual impairment testing which indicate that it is more-likely-than-not an impairment loss has occurred. If the fair value of our reporting unit is less than its carrying value, we would record an impairment charge for the excess of the carrying amount over the estimated fair value. The valuation of our reporting unit requires significant judgment, which includes the evaluation of recent indicators of market activity and estimated future cash flows, discount rates, and other factors. Any impairment of goodwill as a result of such analysis would result in a non-cash charge against earnings, which could materially adversely affect our reported financial results for the period in which the charge was taken and the price of our securities.. Your interest in us may be diluted if we issue additional shares.. Current stockholders of our company do not have preemptive rights to any common stock issued by us in the future. Therefore, our common stockholders may experience dilution of their equity investment if we sell additional common stock in the future, sell securities that are convertible into common stock or issue shares of common stock or options exercisable for shares of common stock. In addition, we could sell securities at a price less than our then-current book value per share.. Investing in our securities may involve a high degree of risk.. The investments we make in accordance with our investment strategy may result in a higher degree of risk or loss of principal than alternative investment options. Our investments may be highly speculative and aggressive, and therefore, an investment in our securities may not be suitable for someone with lower risk tolerance.. The downgrade of the U.S.'s and certain European countries' or certain European financial institutions' credit ratings, any future downgrades of the U.S.'s and certain European countries' or certain European financial institutions' credit ratings and the failure to resolve issues related to U.S. fiscal and debt policies may materially adversely affect our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. U.S. debt ceiling and budget deficit concerns have increased the possibility of credit-rating downgrades or economic slowdowns in the U.S. Although U.S. lawmakers passed legislation to raise the federal debt ceiling in 2011 and again in 2013, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services lowered its long-term sovereign credit rating on the U.S. from \"AAA\" to \"AA+\" in August 2011. The impact of any further downgrades to the U.S. Government's sovereign credit rating or its perceived creditworthiness could adversely affect the U.S. and global financial markets and economic conditions. If the U.S.'s credit rating were downgraded it would likely impact the credit risk associated with Agency RMBS in our portfolio. A downgrade of the U.S. Government's credit rating or a default by the U.S. Government to satisfy its debt obligations likely would create broader financial turmoil and uncertainty, which would weigh heavily on the global banking system and these developments could cause interest rates and borrowing costs to rise and a reduction in the availability of credit, which may negatively impact the value of the assets in our portfolio, our net income, liquidity and our ability to finance our assets on favorable terms.. 23. Table of Contents. In the years following the financial and credit crisis of 2007-2008, many financial institutions in Europe experienced financial difficulty and were either rescued by government assistance or otherwise benefited from accommodative monetary policy of central banks. Several European governments implemented measures to attempt to shore up their financial sectors through loans, credit guarantees, capital infusions, promises of continued liquidity funding and interest rate cuts.  Additionally, other governments of the world's largest economic countries also implemented interest rate cuts.  Some of these European financial institutions have U.S. banking subsidiaries that serve as financing or hedging counterparties to us. Although economic and credit conditions have stabilized in recent years, there is no assurance that these and other plans and programs will be successful in the longer term, and, in particular, when governments and central banks significantly unwind or otherwise reverse these programs and policies. In addition, as a result of the financial difficulty experienced by certain of these European financial institutions, the U.S. government placed many of the U.S. banking subsidiaries of these major European financial institutions on credit watch.  If European credit concerns impact these major European banks again in the future, there is the possibility that it will also impact the operations of their U.S. banking subsidiaries. Some of these financial institutions have U.S. banking subsidiaries that serve as financing or hedging counterparties to us. Any future downgrade of the credit ratings of these European financial institutions could result in greater counterparty default risk and could materially adversely affect our business, liquidity, access to financing and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Company, Structure and Change in Control Provisions. We are highly dependent on information systems and system failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. Our business is highly dependent on communications and information systems. Any failure or interruption of our systems could cause delays or other problems in our securities trading and other investment activities which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. The occurrence of cyber-incidents, or a deficiency in our cybersecurity or in those of any of our third party service providers, including Headlands, could negatively impact our business by causing a disruption to our operations, a compromise or corruption of our confidential information or damage to our business relationships or reputation, all of which could negatively impact our business and results of operations.. A cyber-incident is considered to be any adverse event that threatens the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of our information resources or the information resources of our third party service providers. More specifically, a cyber-incident is an intentional attack or an unintentional event that can include gaining unauthorized access to systems to disrupt operations, corrupt data, or steal confidential information. As our reliance on technology has increased, so have the risks posed to our systems, both internal and those we have outsourced. The primary risks that could directly result from the occurrence of a cyber-incident include operational interruption and private data exposure. We have implemented processes, procedures and controls to help mitigate these risks, but these measures, as well as our increased awareness of a risk of a cyber-incident, do not guarantee that our business and results of operations will not be negatively impacted by such an incident.. Our Board of Directors does not approve each of our investment decisions, and may change our investment guidelines without notice or stockholder consent, which may result in riskier investments.. Our Board of Directors periodically reviews our investment guidelines, investment portfolio, and potential investment strategies. However, our directors do not approve every individual investment that we make, leaving management with day-to-day discretion over the portfolio composition within the investment guidelines. Within those guidelines, management  has discretion to significantly change the composition of the portfolio. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, the directors may rely primarily on information provided to them by our management. Our Board of Directors has the authority to change our investment guidelines at any time without notice to or consent from our stockholders. To the extent that our investment guidelines change in the future, we may make investments that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the investments described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Moreover, because our management has great latitude within our investment guidelines in determining the types and amounts of assets in which to invest on our behalf, there can be no assurance that our management will not make or approve investments that result in returns that are substantially below expectations or result in losses, which would materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. 24. Table of Contents. We are dependent on certain key personnel.. We are a small company and are substantially dependent upon the efforts of our Chief Executive Officer, Steven R. Mumma, and certain other key individuals employed by us. The loss of Mr. Mumma or any key personnel of our Company could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. The stock ownership limit imposed by our charter may inhibit market activity in our common stock and may restrict our business combination opportunities.. In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, not more than 50% in value of the issued and outstanding shares of our capital stock may be owned, actually or constructively, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of each taxable year (other than our first year as a REIT). This test is known as the \"5/50 test.\" Attribution rules in the Internal Revenue Code apply to determine if any individual or entity actually or constructively owns our capital stock for purposes of this requirement. Additionally, at least 100 persons must beneficially own our capital stock during at least 335 days of each taxable year (other than our first year as a REIT). To help ensure that we meet these tests, our charter restricts the acquisition and ownership of shares of our capital stock. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT and provides that, unless exempted by our Board of Directors, no person may own more than 9.9% in value of the aggregate of the outstanding shares of our capital stock or more than 9.9% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the aggregate of our outstanding shares of common stock. The ownership limits contained in our charter could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control of our company under circumstances that otherwise could provide our stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then current market price for our common stock or would otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders.. Risks Related to Credit. Our efforts to manage credit risks may fail.. Despite our efforts to manage credit risk, there are many aspects of credit risk that we cannot control. Our credit policies and procedures may not be successful in limiting future delinquencies, defaults, and losses, or they may not be cost effective. Our underwriting reviews may not be effective. Loan servicing companies may not cooperate with our loss mitigation efforts or those efforts may be ineffective. Service providers to securitizations, such as trustees, loans servicers, bond insurance providers, and custodians, may not perform in a manner that promotes our interests. Delay of foreclosures could delay resolution and increase ultimate loss severities, as a result.. The value of the properties collateralizing or underlying the loans, securities or interests we own may decline. The frequency of default and the loss severity on loans upon default may be greater than we anticipate. Interest-only loans, negative amortization loans, adjustable-rate loans, larger balance loans, reduced documentation loans, non-QM loans, subprime loans, alt-a loans, second mortgage loans, loans in certain locations, and loans or investments that are partially collateralized by non-real estate assets may have increased risks and severity of loss. If property securing or underlying loans become real estate owned as a result of foreclosure, we bear the risk of not being able to sell the property and recovering our investment and of being exposed to the risks attendant to the ownership of real property.. If we underestimate the loss-adjusted yields of our investments in credit sensitive assets, we may experience losses.. We and our managers expect to value our investments in many credit sensitive assets, including, but not limited to, multi-family CMBS, based on loss-adjusted yields taking into account estimated future losses on the loans that we are investing in directly or that underlie securities owned by us, and the estimated impact of these losses on expected future cash flows. Our loss estimates may not prove accurate, as actual results may vary from our estimates. In the event that we underestimate the losses relative to the price we pay for a particular investment, we may experience material losses with respect to such investment.. 25. Table of Contents. We invest in CMBS that are subordinate to more senior securities issued by the applicable securitization, which entails certain risks.. We currently own and may acquire in the future principal only multi-family CMBS that represent the first loss security or other subordinate security of a multi-family mortgage loan securitization. These securities are subject to the first risk of loss or greater risk of loss (as applicable) if any losses are realized on the underlying mortgage loans in the securitization. We also own and may acquire in the future interest only securities issued by multi-family mortgage loan securitizations. However, these interest only CMBS typically only receive payments of interest to the extent that there are funds available in the securitization to make the payments. CMBS generally entitle the holders thereof to receive payments that depend primarily on the cash flow from a specified pool of commercial or multi-family mortgage loans. Consequently, the CMBS, and in particular, first loss PO securities, will be adversely affected by payment defaults, delinquencies and losses on the underlying mortgage loans, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations.. Residential mortgage loans, including non-QM residential mortgage loans, subprime residential mortgage loans and non-performing, sub-performing and re-performing residential mortgage loans, are subject to increased risks.. We acquire and manage residential whole mortgage loans, including loans sourced from distressed markets. Residential mortgage loans, including non-performing, sub-performing and re-performing mortgage loans as well as subprime mortgage loans and mortgage loans that are not deemed \"qualified mortgage\", or \"QM,\" loans under the rules of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, or \"CFPB\", are subject to increased risks of loss. Unlike Agency RMBS, the residential mortgage loans we invest in generally are not guaranteed by the federal government or any GSE. Additionally, by directly acquiring residential mortgage loans, we do not receive the structural credit enhancements that benefit senior securities of RMBS. A residential whole mortgage loan is directly exposed to losses resulting from default. Therefore, the value of the underlying property, the creditworthiness and financial position of the borrower and the priority and enforceability of the lien will significantly impact the value of such mortgage. In the event of a foreclosure, we may assume direct ownership of the underlying real estate. The liquidation proceeds upon sale of such real estate may not be sufficient to recover our cost basis in the loan, and any costs or delays involved in the foreclosure or liquidation process may increase losses.. Residential mortgage loans are also subject to \"special hazard\" risk (property damage caused by hazards, such as earthquakes or environmental hazards, not covered by standard property insurance policies), and to bankruptcy risk (reduction in a borrower's mortgage debt by a bankruptcy court). In addition, claims may be assessed against us on account of our position as a mortgage holder or property owner, including assignee liability, responsibility for tax payments, environmental hazards and other liabilities. In some cases, these liabilities may be \"recourse liabilities\" or may otherwise lead to losses in excess of the purchase price of the related mortgage or property.. Our targeted assets currently include distressed residential loans that we acquire from third parties, typically at a discount. Distressed residential loans sell at a discount because they may constitute riskier investments than those selling at or above par value. The distressed residential loans we invest in may be distressed because a borrower may have defaulted thereupon, because the borrower is or has been in the past delinquent on paying all or a portion of his obligation under the loan or because the loan may otherwise contain credit quality that is considered to be poor. The likelihood of full recovery of a distressed loan's principal and contractual interest is less than that for loans trading at or above par value. Although we typically expect to receive less than the principal amount or face value of the distressed residential loans that we purchase, the return that we in fact receive thereupon may be less than our investment in such loans due to the failure of the loans to perform or reperform. An economic downturn would exacerbate the risks of the recovery of the full value of the loan or the cost of our investment therein.. Second mortgage loan investments expose us to greater credit risks.. We expect to invest in second mortgages on residential properties, which are subject to a greater risk of loss than a traditional mortgage. Our security interest in the property securing a second mortgage is subordinated to the interest of the first mortgage holder and the second mortgages have a higher combined loan-to-value ratio than do the first mortgages. If the borrower experiences difficulties in making senior lien payments or if the value of the property is equal to or less than the amount needed to repay the borrower's obligation to the first mortgage holder upon foreclosure, our investment in the second mortgage loan may not be repaid in full or at all. Further, it is likely that any investments we make in second mortgages will be placed with private entities and not insured by a GSE.. 26. Table of Contents. If we sell or transfer any whole mortgage loans to a third party, including a securitization entity, we may be required to repurchase such loans or indemnify such third party if we breach representations and warranties.. When we sell or transfer any whole mortgage loans to a third party, including a securitization entity, we generally are required to make customary representations and warranties about such loans to the third party. Our residential mortgage loan sale agreements and terms of any securitizations into which we sell or transfer loans will generally require us to repurchase or substitute loans in the event we breach a representation or warranty given to the loan purchaser or securitization. In addition, we may be required to repurchase loans as a result of borrower fraud or in the event of early payment default on a mortgage loan. The remedies available to a purchaser of mortgage loans are generally broader than those available to us against an originating broker or correspondent. Repurchased loans are typically worth only a fraction of the original price. Significant repurchase activity could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders.. Risks Related to Our Use of Hedging Strategies. Hedging against interest rate and market value changes as well as other risks may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. Subject to compliance with the requirements to qualify as a REIT, we engage in certain hedging transactions to limit our exposure to changes in interest rates and therefore may expose ourselves to risks associated with such transactions. We may utilize instruments such as interest rate swaps, interest rate swaptions,  Eurodollars and U.S. Treasury futures to seek to hedge the interest rate risk associated with our portfolio. Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. However, we may establish other hedging positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of such portfolio positions. Such hedging transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the portfolio positions should increase. Moreover, at any point in time we may choose not to hedge all or a portion of these risks, and we generally will not hedge those risks that we believe are appropriate for us to take at such time, or that we believe would be impractical or prohibitively expensive to hedge.. Even if we do choose to hedge certain risks, for a variety of reasons we generally will not seek to establish a perfect correlation between our hedging instruments and the risks being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. Our hedging activity will vary in scope based on the composition of our portfolio, our market views, and changing market conditions, including the level and volatility of interest rates. When we do choose to hedge, hedging may fail to protect or could materially adversely affect us because, among other things:. • we may fail to correctly assess the degree of correlation between the performance of the instruments used in the hedging strategy and the performance of the assets in the portfolio being hedged;. • we may fail to recalculate, re-adjust and execute hedges in an efficient and timely manner;. • the hedging transactions may actually result in poorer overall performance for us than if we had not engaged in the hedging transactions;. • interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of volatile interest rates;. • available hedges may not correspond directly with the risks for which protection is sought;. • the durations of the hedges may not match the durations of the related assets or liabilities being hedged;. • many hedges are structured as over-the-counter contracts with counterparties whose creditworthiness is not guaranteed, raising the possibility that the hedging counterparty may default on their payment obligations; and. • to the extent that the creditworthiness of a hedging counterparty deteriorates, it may be difficult or impossible to terminate or assign any hedging transactions with such counterparty.. For these and other reasons, our hedging activity may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. 27. Table of Contents. Hedging instruments and other derivatives may not, in many cases, be traded on regulated exchanges, or guaranteed or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities and involve risks and costs that could result in material losses.. Hedging instruments and other derivatives involve risk because they may not, in many cases, be traded on regulated exchanges and may not be guaranteed or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. Consequently, for these instruments, there are no requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and compliance with applicable statutory and commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements. We are not restricted from dealing with any particular counterparty or from concentrating any or all of our transactions with one counterparty. The business failure of a hedging counterparty with whom we enter into a hedging transaction will most likely result in a default under the hedging agreement. Default by a party with whom we enter into a hedging transaction may result in losses and may force us to re-initiate similar hedges with other counterparties at the then-prevailing market levels. Generally, we will seek to reserve the right to terminate our hedging transactions upon a counterparty's insolvency, but absent an actual insolvency, we may not be able to terminate a hedging transaction without the consent of the hedging counterparty, and we may not be able to assign or otherwise dispose of a hedging transaction to another counterparty without the consent of both the original hedging counterparty and the potential assignee. If we terminate a hedging transaction, we may not be able to enter into a replacement contract in order to cover our risk. There can be no assurance that a liquid secondary market will exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and therefore we may be required to maintain any hedging position until exercise or expiration, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (\"CFTC\") and certain commodity exchanges have established limits referred to as speculative position limits or position limits on the maximum net long or net short position which any person or group of persons may hold or control in particular futures and options. Limits on trading in options contracts also have been established by the various options exchanges. It is possible that trading decisions may have to be modified and that positions held may have to be liquidated in order to avoid exceeding such limits. Such modification or liquidation, if required, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. Our delayed delivery transactions, including TBAs, subject us to certain risks, including price risks and counterparty risks.. We purchase a significant portion of our Agency RMBS through delayed delivery transactions, including TBAs. In a delayed delivery transaction, we enter into a forward purchase agreement with a counterparty to purchase either (i) an identified Agency RMBS, or (ii) a to-be-issued (or \"to-be-announced\") Agency RMBS with certain terms. As with any forward purchase contract, the value of the underlying Agency RMBS may decrease between the contract date and the settlement date. Furthermore, a transaction counterparty may fail to deliver the underlying Agency RMBS at the settlement date. If any of the above risks were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.. Risks Related to Debt Financing. Failure to procure adequate funding and capital would adversely affect our results and may, in turn, negatively affect the value of our securities and our ability to distribute cash to our stockholders.. We depend upon the availability of adequate funding and capital for our operations. To maintain our status as a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income annually, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain, to our stockholders and therefore are not able to retain our earnings for new investments. We cannot assure you that any, or sufficient, funding or capital will be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us. In the event that we cannot obtain sufficient funding and capital on acceptable terms, there may be a negative impact on the value of our securities and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders, and you may lose part or all of your investment.. 28. Table of Contents. Our access to financing sources, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all, may be limited, and this may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. We depend upon the availability of adequate capital and financing sources on acceptable terms to fund our operations. However, as previously discussed, the capital and credit markets have experienced unprecedented levels of volatility and disruption in recent years that has generally caused a reduction of available credit. Continued volatility or disruption in the credit markets or a downturn in the global economy could materially adversely affect one or more of our lenders and could cause one or more of our lenders to be unwilling or unable to provide us with financing, or to increase the costs of that financing, or to become insolvent. Although we finance some of our assets with longer-term financing having terms of three years or more, we rely heavily on access to short-term borrowings, primarily in the form of repurchase agreements, to finance our investments. We are currently party to repurchase agreements of a short duration and there can be no assurance that we will be able to roll over or re-set these borrowings on favorable terms, if at all. In the event we are unable to roll over or re-set our repurchase agreement borrowings, it may be more difficult for us to obtain debt financing on favorable terms or at all. In addition, regulatory capital requirements imposed on our lenders have changed the willingness of many repurchase agreement lenders to make repurchase agreement financing available and additional regulatory capital requirements imposed on our lenders may cause them to change, limit, or increase the cost of, the financing they provide to us. In general, this could potentially increase our financing costs and reduce our liquidity or require us to sell assets at an inopportune time or price. Under current market conditions, securitizations have been limited, which has also limited borrowings under warehouse facilities and other credit facilities that are intended to be refinanced by such securitizations. Consequently, depending on market conditions at the relevant time, we may have to rely on additional equity issuances to meet our capital and financing needs, which may be dilutive to our stockholders, or we may have to rely on less efficient forms of debt financing that restrict our operations or consume a larger portion of our cash flow from operations, thereby reducing funds available for our operations, future business opportunities, cash distributions to our stockholders and other purposes. We cannot assure you that we will have access to such equity or debt capital on favorable terms (including, without limitation, cost and term) at the desired times, or at all, which may cause us to curtail our investment activities and/or dispose of assets, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. We may incur increased borrowing costs related to repurchase agreements and that would adversely affect our profitability.. Currently, a significant portion of our borrowings are collateralized borrowings in the form of repurchase agreements.  If the interest rates on these agreements increase at a rate higher than the increase in rates payable on our investments, our profitability would be adversely affected.. Our borrowing costs under repurchase agreements generally correspond to short-term interest rates such as LIBOR or a short-term Treasury index, plus or minus a margin. The margins on these borrowings over or under short-term interest rates may vary depending upon a number of factors, including, without limitation:. • the movement of interest rates;. • the availability of financing in the market; and. • the value and liquidity of our mortgage-related assets.. During 2008 and 2009, many repurchase agreement lenders required higher levels of collateral than they had required in the past to support repurchase agreements collateralized by RMBS. Although these collateral requirements have been reduced to more appropriate levels, we cannot assure you that they will not again experience a dramatic increase. If the interest rates, lending margins or collateral requirements under our short-term borrowings, including repurchase agreements, increase, or if lenders impose other onerous terms to obtain this type of financing, our results of operations will be adversely affected.. 29. Table of Contents. The repurchase agreements that we use to finance our investments may require us to provide additional collateral, which could reduce our liquidity and harm our financial condition.. We use repurchase agreements to finance certain of our investments, primarily RMBS. If the market value of the loans or securities pledged or sold by us to a funding source decline in value, we may be required by the lending institution to provide additional collateral or pay down a portion of the funds advanced, but we may not have the funds available to do so. Posting additional collateral to support our repurchase agreements will reduce our liquidity and limit our ability to leverage our assets. In the event we do not have sufficient liquidity to meet such requirements, lending institutions can accelerate our indebtedness, increase our borrowing rates, liquidate our collateral at inopportune times and terminate our ability to borrow. This could result in a rapid deterioration of our financial condition and possibly require us to file for protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.. We leverage our equity, which can exacerbate any losses we incur on our current and future investments and may reduce cash available for distribution to our stockholders.. We leverage our equity through borrowings, generally through the use of repurchase agreements and other short-term borrowings, longer-term structured debt, such as CDOs and other forms of securitized debt, or corporate-level debt, such as convertible notes. We may, in the future, utilize other forms of borrowing. The amount of leverage we incur varies depending on the asset type, our ability to obtain borrowings, the cost of the debt and our lenders' estimates of the value of our portfolio's cash flow. The return on our investments and cash available for distribution to our stockholders may be reduced to the extent that changes in market conditions cause the cost of our financing to increase relative to the income that can be derived from the assets we hold in our investment portfolio. Further, the leverage on our equity may exacerbate any losses we incur.. Our debt service payments will reduce the net income available for distribution to our stockholders. We may not be able to meet our debt service obligations and, to the extent that we cannot, we risk the loss of some or all of our assets to sale to satisfy our debt obligations. A decrease in the value of the assets may lead to margin calls under our repurchase agreements which we will have to satisfy. Significant decreases in asset valuation, could lead to increased margin calls, and we may not have the funds available to satisfy any such margin calls. Although we have established target leverage amounts for many of our assets, there is no established limitation, other than may be required by our financing arrangements, on our leverage ratio or on the aggregate amount of our borrowings.. If we are unable to leverage our equity to the extent we currently anticipate, the returns on certain of our assets could be diminished, which may limit or eliminate our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. If we are limited in our ability to leverage our assets to the extent we currently anticipate, the returns on these assets may be harmed. A key element of our strategy is our use of leverage to increase the size of our portfolio in an attempt to enhance our returns. Our repurchase agreements, other than the repurchase agreements we have with Deutsche Bank AG, Cayman Islands Branch that finance our residential mortgage loans, are not currently committed facilities, meaning that the counterparties to these agreements may at any time choose to restrict or eliminate our future access to the facilities and we have no other committed credit facilities through which we may leverage our equity. If we are unable to leverage our equity to the extent we currently anticipate, the returns on our portfolio could be diminished, which may limit or eliminate our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. Despite our current debt levels, we may still incur substantially more debt or take other actions which could have the effect of diminishing our ability to make payments on our indebtedness when due and distributions to our stockholders.. Despite our current consolidated debt levels, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional debt in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our debt instruments, some of which may be secured debt. We are not restricted presently under the terms of the agreements governing our borrowings from incurring additional debt, securing existing or future debt, recapitalizing our debt or taking a number of other actions that could have the effect of diminishing our ability to make payments on our indebtedness when due and distributions to our stockholders.. 30. Table of Contents. We directly or indirectly utilize non-recourse securitizations and recourse structured financings and such structures expose us to risks that could result in losses to us.. We sometimes utilize non-recourse securitizations of our investments in mortgage loans or CMBS to the extent consistent with the maintenance of our REIT qualification and exclusion from the Investment Company Act in order to generate cash for funding new investments and/or to leverage existing assets. In most instances, this involves us transferring loans or CMBS owned by us to a SPE in exchange for cash and typically the ownership certificate or residual interest in the entity. In some sale transactions, we also retain a subordinated interest in the loans or CMBS sold, such as a B-note. The securitization or other structured financing of our portfolio investments might magnify our exposure to losses on those portfolio investments because the subordinated interest we retain in the loans or CMBS sold would be subordinate to the senior interest in the loans or CMBS sold, and we would, therefore, absorb all of the losses sustained with respect to a loan sold before the owners of the senior interest experience any losses. Under the terms of these financings, which generally have terms of three to ten years, we may agree to receive no cash flows from the assets transferred to the SPE until the debt issued by the special purpose entity has matured or been repaid. There can be no assurance that we will be able to access the securitization markets in the future, or be able to do so at favorable rates. The inability to consummate longer term financing for the credit sensitive assets in our portfolio could require us to seek other forms of potentially less attractive financing or to liquidate assets at an inopportune time or price, which could adversely affect our performance and our ability to grow our business.. In addition, under the terms of the securitization or structured financing, we may have limited or no ability to sell, transfer or replace the assets transferred to the SPE, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to sell the assets opportunistically or during periods when our liquidity is constrained or to refinance the assets. Finally, we have in the past and may in the future guarantee certain terms or conditions of these financings, including the payment of principal and interest on the debt issued by the SPE, the cash flows for which are typically derived from the assets transferred to the entity. If a SPE defaults on its obligations and we have guaranteed the satisfaction of that obligation, we may be materially adversely affected.. If a counterparty to our repurchase transactions defaults on its obligation to resell the underlying security back to us at the end of the transaction term or if we default on our obligations under the repurchase agreement, we may incur losses.. When we engage in repurchase transactions, we generally sell RMBS, CMBS, mortgage loans or certain other assets to lenders (i.e., repurchase agreement counterparties) and receive cash from the lenders. The lenders are obligated to resell the same security or asset back to us at the end of the term of the transaction. Because the cash we receive from the lender when we initially sell the security or asset to the lender is less than the value of that security or asset (this difference is referred to as the \"haircut\"), if the lender defaults on its obligation to resell the same security or asset back to us we would incur a loss on the transaction equal to the amount of the haircut (assuming there was no change in the value of the security). Certain of the assets that we pledge as collateral,  are currently subject to significant haircuts. Further, if we default on one of our obligations under a repurchase transaction, the lender can terminate the transaction and cease entering into any other repurchase transactions with us. Our repurchase agreements contain cross-default provisions, so that if a default occurs under any one agreement, the lenders under our other agreements could also declare a default. Any losses we incur on our repurchase transactions could adversely affect our earnings and thus our cash available for distribution to our stockholders.. Our use of repurchase agreements to borrow funds may give our lenders greater rights in the event that either we or a lender files for bankruptcy.. Our borrowings under repurchase agreements may qualify for special treatment under the bankruptcy code, giving our lenders the ability to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the bankruptcy code and to take possession of and liquidate our collateral under the repurchase agreements without delay in the event that we file for bankruptcy. Furthermore, the special treatment of repurchase agreements under the bankruptcy code may make it difficult for us to recover our pledged assets in the event that a lender files for bankruptcy. Thus, the use of repurchase agreements exposes our pledged assets to risk in the event of a bankruptcy filing by either a lender or us.. 31. Table of Contents. Our liquidity may be adversely affected by margin calls under our repurchase agreements because we are dependent in part on the lenders' valuation of the collateral securing the financing.. Each of these repurchase agreements allows the lender, to varying degrees, to revalue the collateral to values that the lender considers to reflect market value. If a lender determines that the value of the collateral has decreased, it may initiate a margin call requiring us to post additional collateral to cover the decrease. When we are subject to such a margin call, we must provide the lender with additional collateral or repay a portion of the outstanding borrowings with minimal notice. Any such margin call could harm our liquidity, results of operation and financial condition. Additionally, in order to obtain cash to satisfy a margin call, we may be required to liquidate assets at a disadvantageous time, which could cause it to incur further losses and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Risks Related to Regulatory Matters. The federal conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and related efforts, along with any changes in laws and regulations affecting the relationship between Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae and the U.S. Government, may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders.. Payments on the Agency RMBS (excluding Agency IOs) in which we invest are guaranteed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are GSEs, but their guarantees are not backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. Ginnie Mae, which guarantees mortgage-backed securities (\"MBS\") backed by federally insured or guaranteed loans primarily consisting of loans insured by the Federal Housing Administration (the \"FHA\") or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs (\"VA\"), is part of a U.S. Government agency and its guarantees are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States.. In September 2008, in response to the deteriorating financial condition of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the U.S. Government placed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac into the conservatorship of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (the \"FHFA\"), their federal regulator, pursuant to its powers under The Federal Housing Finance Regulatory Reform Act of 2008, a part of the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008. Under this conservatorship, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are required to reduce the amount of mortgage loans they own or for which they provide guarantees on Agency RMBS.. Shortly after Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were placed in federal conservatorship, the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury noted that the guarantee structure of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac required examination and that changes in the structures of the entities were necessary to reduce risk to the financial system. The future roles of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could be significantly reduced, and the nature of their guarantees could be considerably limited relative to historical measurements or even eliminated. The substantial financial assistance provided by the U.S. Government to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, especially in the course of their being placed into conservatorship and thereafter, together with the substantial financial assistance provided by the U.S. Government to the mortgage-related operations of other GSEs and government agencies, such as the FHA, VA and Ginnie Mae, has stirred debate among many federal policymakers over the continued role of the U.S. Government in providing such financial support for the mortgage-related GSEs in particular, and for the mortgage and housing markets in general. To date, no definitive legislation has been enacted with respect to a possible unwinding of Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac or a material reduction in their roles in the U.S. mortgage market, and it is not possible at this time to predict the scope and nature of the actions that the U.S. Government will ultimately take with respect to these entities.. Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae could each be dissolved, and the U.S. Government could determine to stop providing liquidity support of any kind to the mortgage market. If Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae were eliminated, or their structures were to change radically, or the U.S. Government significantly reduced its support for any or all of them which would drastically reduce the amount and type of MBS available for purchase, we may be unable or significantly limited in our ability to acquire MBS, which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our ability to maintain our exclusion from regulation as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. Moreover, any changes to the nature of the guarantees provided by, or laws affecting, Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae could materially adversely affect the credit quality of the guarantees, could increase the risk of loss on purchases of MBS issued by these GSEs and could have broad adverse market implications for the MBS they currently guarantee and the mortgage industry generally. Any action that affects the credit quality of the guarantees provided by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae could materially adversely affect the value of the MBS and other mortgage-related assets that we own or seek to acquire. In addition, any market uncertainty that arises from any such proposed changes, or the perception that such changes will come to fruition, could have a similar impact on us and the values of the MBS and other mortgage-related assets that we own.. 32. Table of Contents. In addition, we rely on our Agency RMBS as collateral for our financings under the repurchase agreements that we have entered into. Any decline in their value, or perceived market uncertainty about their value, would make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on our Agency RMBS on acceptable terms or at all, or to maintain compliance with the terms of any financing transactions.. Mortgage loan modification programs and future legislative action may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, our targeted assets.. The U.S. Government, through the U.S. Treasury, the FHA, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or \"FDIC,\" commenced implementation of programs designed to provide homeowners with assistance in avoiding residential or commercial mortgage loan foreclosures, including the Home Affordable Modification Program, or  \"HAMP,\" which provides homeowners with assistance in avoiding residential mortgage loan foreclosures, and the Home Affordable Refinance Program, or \"HARP,\" which allows borrowers who are current on their mortgage payments to refinance and reduce their monthly mortgage payments at loan-to-value ratios up to 125% without new mortgage insurance. The programs may involve, among other things, the modification of residential mortgage loans to reduce the principal amount of the loans or the rate of interest payable on the loans, or to extend the payment terms of the loans.. Loan modification and refinance programs may adversely affect the performance of Agency RMBS, non-Agency RMBS and residential mortgage loans owned by us. Residential distressed mortgage loans and non-Agency RMBS are particularly sensitive to loan modification and refinance programs, as a significant number of loan modifications with respect to a given security or pool of loans, including those related to principal forgiveness and coupon reduction, could negatively impact the realized yields and cash flows on such investments. In addition, it is also likely that loan modifications would result in increased prepayments on some RMBS and residential mortgage loans.. The U.S. Congress and various state and local legislatures have considered in the past, and in the future may adopt, legislation, which, among other provisions, would permit limited assignee liability for certain violations in the mortgage loan origination process, and would allow judicial modification of loan principal in the event of personal bankruptcy. We cannot predict whether or in what form the U.S. Congress or the various state and local legislatures may enact legislation affecting our business or whether any such legislation will require us to change our practices or make changes in our portfolio in the future. These changes, if required, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders, particularly if we make such changes in response to new or amended laws, regulations or ordinances in any state where we acquire a significant portion of our mortgage loans, or if such changes result in us being held responsible for any violations in the mortgage loan origination process. These loan modification programs, future legislative or regulatory actions, including possible amendments to the bankruptcy laws, which result in the modification of outstanding residential mortgage loans, as well as changes in the requirements necessary to qualify for refinancing mortgage loans with Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae, may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, our assets which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. We could be subject to liability for potential violations of predatory lending laws, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders.. Residential mortgage loan originators and servicers are required to comply with various federal, state and local laws and regulations, including anti-predatory lending laws and laws and regulations imposing certain restrictions on requirements on high cost loans. Failure of residential mortgage loan originators or servicers to comply with these laws, to the extent any of their residential mortgage loans become part of our investment portfolio, could subject us, as an assignee or purchaser of the related residential mortgage loans, to monetary penalties and could result in the borrowers rescinding the affected residential mortgage loans. Lawsuits have been brought in various states making claims against assignees or purchasers of high cost loans for violations of state law. Named defendants in these cases have included numerous participants within the secondary mortgage market. If the loans are found to have been originated in violation of predatory or abusive lending laws, we could incur losses that would materially adversely affect our business.. 33. Table of Contents. Certain provisions of Maryland law and our charter and bylaws could hinder, delay or prevent a change in control which could have an adverse effect on the value of our securities.. Certain provisions of Maryland law, our charter and our bylaws may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing transactions that involve an actual or threatened change in control. These provisions include the following, among others:. • our charter provides that, subject to the rights of one or more classes or series of preferred stock to elect one or more directors, a director may be removed with or without cause only by the affirmative vote of holders of at least two-thirds of all votes entitled to be cast by our stockholders generally in the election of directors;. • our bylaws provide that only our Board of Directors shall have the authority to amend our bylaws;. • under our charter, our Board of Directors has authority to issue preferred stock from time to time, in one or more series and to establish the terms, preferences and rights of any such series, all without the approval of our stockholders;. • the Maryland Business Combination Act; and. • the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act.. Although our Board of Directors has adopted a resolution exempting us from application of the Maryland Business Combination Act and our bylaws provide that we are not subject to the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act, our Board of Directors may elect to make the \"business combination\" statute and \"control share\" statute applicable to us at any time and may do so without stockholder approval.. Maintenance of our Investment Company Act exemption imposes limits on our operations.. We have conducted and intend to continue to conduct our operations so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. We believe that there are a number of exclusions under the Investment Company Act that are applicable to us. To maintain the exclusion, the assets that we acquire are limited by the provisions of the Investment Company Act and the rules and regulations promulgated under the Investment Company Act. On August 31, 2011, the SEC published a concept release entitled \"Companies Engaged in the Business of Acquiring Mortgages and Mortgage Related Instruments\" (Investment Company Act Rel. No. 29778). This release suggests that the SEC may modify the exclusion relied upon by companies similar to us that invest in mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities. If the SEC acts to narrow the availability of, or if we otherwise fail to qualify for, our exclusion, we could, among other things, be required either (a) to change the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company or (b) to register as an investment company, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and the market price of our common stock.. Tax Risks Related to Our Structure. Failure to qualify as a REIT would adversely affect our operations and ability to make distributions.. We have operated and intend to continue to operate so to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Our continued qualification as a REIT will depend on our ability to meet various requirements concerning, among other things, the ownership of our outstanding stock, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income, and the amount of our distributions to our stockholders. In order to satisfy these requirements, we might have to forego investments we might otherwise make. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our investment performance. Moreover, while we intend to continue to operate so to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, given the highly complex nature of the rules governing REITs, there can be no assurance that we will so qualify in any taxable year.. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year and we do not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, we would be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. We might be required to borrow funds or liquidate some investments in order to pay the applicable tax. Our payment of income tax would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders. Furthermore, if we fail to qualify as a REIT and do not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, we would no longer be required to make distributions to stockholders. Unless our failure to qualify as a REIT were excused under the federal income tax laws, we generally would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we lost our REIT status.. 34. Table of Contents. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our liquidity.. In order to qualify as a REIT, we generally are required each year to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding any net capital gain. To the extent that we distribute at least 90%, but less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, we will be subject to corporate income tax on our undistributed REIT taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which certain distributions paid by us with respect to any calendar year are less than the sum of (i) 85% of our ordinary REIT income for that year, (ii) 95% of our REIT capital gain net income for that year, and (iii) 100% of our undistributed REIT taxable income from prior years.. We have made and intend to continue to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the 90% distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the nondeductible excise tax. However, differences in timing between the recognition of REIT taxable income and the actual receipt of cash could require us to sell assets or to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the 90% distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the nondeductible excise tax.. Certain of our assets may generate substantial mismatches between REIT taxable income and available cash. Such assets could include mortgage-backed securities we hold that have been issued at a discount and require the accrual of taxable income in advance of the receipt of cash. As a result, our taxable income may exceed our cash available for distribution and the requirement to distribute a substantial portion of our net taxable income could cause us to:. • sell assets in adverse market conditions;. • borrow on unfavorable terms; or. • distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt in order to comply with the REIT distribution requirements.. Further, our lenders could require us to enter into negative covenants, including restrictions on our ability to distribute funds or to employ leverage, which could inhibit our ability to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement.. We may satisfy the 90% distribution test with taxable distributions of our stock or debt securities. On August 11, 2017, the IRS issued Revenue Procedure 2017-45 authorizing elective cash/stock dividends to be made by publicly offered REITS (e.g. REITS that are required to file annual and periodic reports with the SEC under the Exchange Act). Pursuant to Revenue Procedure 2017-45, effective for distributions declared on or after August 11, 2017, the IRS will treat the distribution of stock pursuant to an elective cash/stock dividend as a distribution of property under Section 301 of the Code (e.g., a dividend), as long as at least 20% of the total dividend is available in cash and certain other parameters detailed in the Revenue Procedure are satisfied. Although we have no current intention of paying dividends in our own stock, if in the future we choose to pay dividends in our own stock, our stockholder may be required to pay tax in excess of the cash that they receive.. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates on dividend income from regular corporations.. The maximum U.S. federal income tax rate for dividends payable to domestic stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates is 20%. Dividends payable by REITs, however, are generally not eligible for the reduced rates. Rather, under the recently enacted Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"TCJA\"), REIT dividends constitute \"qualified business income\" and thus a 20% deduction is available to individual taxpayers with respect to such dividends, resulting in a 29.6% maximum federal tax rate (plus the 3.8% surtax on net investment income, if applicable) for individual U.S. stockholders. Additionally, without further legislative action, the 20% deduction applicable to REIT dividends will expire on January 1, 2026. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are taxed at individual rates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including our common stock.. 35. Table of Contents. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego or liquidate otherwise attractive investments.. To qualify as a REIT, we must continually satisfy various tests regarding the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our common stock. In order to meet these tests, we may be required to forego investments we might otherwise make. We may be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution, and may be unable to pursue investments that would be otherwise advantageous to us in order to satisfy the source of income or asset diversification requirements for qualifying as a REIT. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our investment performance.. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively.. The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code substantially limit our ability to hedge the RMBS in our investment portfolio. Our aggregate gross income from non-qualifying hedges, fees, and certain other non-qualifying sources cannot exceed 5% of our annual gross income. As a result, we might have to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a TRS. Any hedging income earned by a TRS would be subject to federal, state and local income tax at regular corporate rates. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear.. Our ability to invest in and dispose of \"to be announced\" securities could be limited by our REIT status, and we could lose our REIT status as a result of these investments.. In connection with our investment in Agency IOs, we may purchase Agency RMBS through TBAs, or dollar roll transactions. In certain instances, rather than take delivery of the Agency RMBS subject to a TBA, we will dispose of the TBA through a dollar roll transaction in which we agree to purchase similar securities in the future at a predetermined price or otherwise, which may result in the recognition of income or gains. We account for dollar roll transactions as purchases and sales. The law is unclear regarding whether TBAs will be qualifying assets for the 75% asset test and whether income and gains from dispositions of TBAs will be qualifying income for the 75% gross income test.. Until such time as we seek and receive a favorable private letter ruling from the IRS, or we are advised by counsel that TBAs should be treated as qualifying assets for purposes of the 75% asset test, we will limit our investment in TBAs and any non-qualifying assets to no more than 25% of our assets at the end of any calendar quarter. Further, until such time as we seek and receive a favorable private letter ruling from the IRS or we are advised by counsel that income and gains from the disposition of TBAs should be treated as qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test, we will limit our gains from dispositions of TBAs and any non-qualifying income to no more than 25% of our gross income for each calendar year. Accordingly, our ability to purchase Agency RMBS through TBAs and to dispose of TBAs, through dollar roll transactions or otherwise, could be limited.. Moreover, even if we are advised by counsel that TBAs should be treated as qualifying assets or that income and gains from dispositions of TBAs should be treated as qualifying income, it is possible that the IRS could successfully take the position that such assets are not qualifying assets and such income is not qualifying income. In that event, we could be subject to a penalty tax or we could fail to qualify as a REIT if (i) the value of our TBAs, together with our non-qualifying assets for the 75% asset test, exceeded 25% of our gross assets at the end of any calendar quarter or (ii) our income and gains from the disposition of TBAs, together with our non-qualifying income for the 75% gross income test, exceeded 25% of our gross income for any taxable year.. The failure of certain investments subject to a repurchase agreement to qualify as real estate assets would adversely affect our ability to qualify as a REIT.. We have entered and intend to continue to enter into repurchase agreements under which we will nominally sell certain of our investments to a counterparty and simultaneously enter into an agreement to repurchase the sold investments. We believe that for U.S. federal income tax purposes these transactions will be treated as secured debt and we will be treated as the owner of the investments that are the subject of any such agreement notwithstanding that such agreement may transfer record ownership of such investments to the counterparty during the term of the agreement. It is possible, however, that the IRS could successfully assert that we do not own the investments during the term of the repurchase agreement, in which case our ability to continue to qualify as a REIT could be adversely affected.. 36. Table of Contents. We could fail to continue to qualify as a REIT if the IRS successfully challenges our treatment of our mezzanine loans.. We currently own, and in the future may originate or acquire, mezzanine loans, which are loans secured by equity interests in an entity that directly or indirectly owns real property, rather than by a direct mortgage of the real property. In Revenue Procedure 2003-65, the IRS established a safe harbor under which loans secured by a first priority security interest in ownership interests in a partnership or limited liability company owning real property will be treated as real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests, and interest derived from those loans will be treated as qualifying income for both the 75% and 95% gross income tests, provided several requirements are satisfied.  Although Revenue Procedure 2003-65 provides a safe harbor on which taxpayers may rely, it does not prescribe rules of substantive tax law. Moreover, our mezzanine loans typically do not meet all of the requirements for reliance on the safe harbor. Consequently, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge our treatment of such loans as qualifying real estate assets, which could adversely affect our ability to continue to qualify as a REIT.   We have invested, and will continue to invest, in mezzanine loans in a manner that will enable us to continue to satisfy the REIT gross income and asset tests.. We may incur a significant tax liability as a result of selling assets that might be subject to the prohibited transactions tax if sold directly by us.. A REIT's net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of assets held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. There is a risk that certain loans that we are treating as owning for federal income tax purposes and property received upon foreclosure of these loans will be treated as held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. Although we expect to avoid the prohibited transactions tax by contributing those assets to one of our TRSs and conducting the marketing and sale of those assets through that TRS, no assurance can be given that the IRS will respect the transaction by which those assets are contributed to our TRS. Even if those contribution transactions are respected, our TRS will be subject to federal, state and local corporate income tax and may incur a significant tax liability as a result of those sales.. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our common stock.. At any time, the U.S. federal income tax laws or regulations governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws or regulations may be amended. We cannot predict when or if any new U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective and any such law, regulation or interpretation may take effect retroactively. We and our stockholders could be adversely affected by any such change in, or any new, U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation.. The recently-enacted TCJA makes significant changes to the U.S. federal income tax rules for taxation of individuals and corporations. In the case of individuals, the tax brackets have been adjusted, the top federal income rate has been reduced to 37%, special rules reduce taxation of certain income earned through pass-through entities and reduce the top effective rate applicable to ordinary dividends from REITs to 29.6% (through a 20% deduction for ordinary REIT dividends received) and various deductions have been eliminated or limited, including limiting the deduction for state and local taxes to $10,000 per year. Most of the changes applicable to individuals are temporary and apply only to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2026. The top corporate income tax rate has been reduced to 21%. There are only minor changes to the REIT rules (other than the 20% deduction applicable to individuals for ordinary REIT dividends received). The TCJA makes numerous other large and small changes to the tax rules that do not affect REITs directly but may affect our stockholders and may indirectly affect us. For example, the TCJA amends the rules for accrual of income so that income is taken into account no later than when it is taken into account on applicable financial statements, even if financial statements take such income into account before it would accrue under the original issue discount rules, market discount rules or other Code rules. Such rule may cause us to recognize income before receiving any corresponding receipt of cash. In addition, the TCJA reduces the limit for individuals' mortgage interest expense to interest on $750,000 of mortgages and does not permit deduction of interest on home equity loans (after grandfathering all existing mortgages). Such change and the reduction in deductions for state and local taxes (including property taxes) may adversely affect the residential mortgage markets in which we invest.. Prospective stockholders are urged to consult with their tax advisors with respect to the status of the TCJA and any other regulatory or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on investment in our common stock.. 37. Table of Contents"
