[1] "Item 1A.     Risk Factors. There are many factors that may affect Newfield's business and results of operations. Described below are certain risks that we believe are particularly applicable to our business and the oil and gas industry in which we operate, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. You should carefully consider, in addition to the other information contained in this report, the risks described below. We may experience additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or, as a result of development occurring in the future, conditions that we currently deem to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Table of Contents     Index to Financial Statements 22. Oil, natural gas and NGL prices fluctuate widely, and lower prices for an extended period of time are likely to have a material adverse impact on our business. Our revenues, profitability, cash flows and future growth, as well as liquidity and ability to access additional sources of capital, depend substantially on prevailing prices for oil, natural gas and NGLs and the relative mix of these commodities in our reserves and production. Sustained lower prices will reduce the amount of oil, natural gas and NGLs that we can economically produce and may result in impairments of our proved reserves or reduction of our proved undeveloped reserves. Oil, natural gas and NGL prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow and raise additional capital. See Items 1 and 2, \"Business and Properties  -  2018 Outlook,\" for additional information about the commodity price environment.. The market prices for oil, natural gas and NGLs depend on factors beyond our control. Some, but not all, of the factors that can cause fluctuations include:. • the domestic and foreign supply of, and demand for, oil, natural gas and NGLs;. • domestic and world-wide economic conditions;. • the level and effect of trading in commodity futures markets, including commodity price speculators and others;. • military, economic and political conditions in oil and gas producing regions;. • the actions taken by OPEC and other foreign oil and gas producing nations, including the ability of members of OPEC to agree to and maintain production controls;. • the impact of the U.S. dollar exchange rates on oil, natural gas and NGL prices;. • the price and availability of, and demand for, alternative fuels;. • weather conditions and climate change;. • world-wide conservation measures;. • technological advances affecting energy consumption and production;. • changes in the price of oilfield services and technologies;. • the price and level of foreign imports;. • expansion of U.S. exports of oil, natural gas and/or NGLs;. • the availability, proximity and capacity of transportation, processing, storage and refining facilities;. • the costs of exploring for, developing, producing, transporting and marketing oil, natural gas and NGLs; and. • the nature and extent of domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation, including environmental regulations.. While we cannot predict commodity prices, we have previously made adjustments in response to the then current strong supply and relatively soft demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs, such as adapting our 2017 capital investment plan to reflect anticipated commodity prices, historical drilling success, and markets for our products. In the current commodity price environment, we have increased our 2018 capital investment plan, but this capital investment plan is subject to adjustments such as those taken in 2017. These adjustments are likely to influence our profitability and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, our stock price in the market is influenced by fluctuations in oil, natural gas and NGL prices.. Sustained material declines in oil, natural gas or NGL prices may have the following effects on our business:. • limit our access to sources of capital, such as equity and long-term debt;. • cause us to delay or postpone capital projects;. • cause us to lose certain leases because we fail to meet obligations of the leases prior to expiration;. • reduce reserve estimates and the amount of products we can economically produce;. • downgrade or other negative rating action with respect to our credit rating;. • reduce revenues, income and cash flows available for capital expenditures, repayment of indebtedness and other corporate purposes; or. Table of Contents     Index to Financial Statements 23. • reduce the carrying value of our assets in our balance sheet through ceiling test impairments.. We may be responsible for decommissioning liabilities for offshore interests we no longer own.  Under state and federal law, oil and gas companies are obligated to plug and abandon (P&A) a well and restore the lease to pre-operating conditions after operations cease. U.S. state and federal regulations allow the government to call upon predecessors in interest of oil and gas leases to pay for P&A, restoration and decommissioning obligations if the current operator fails to fulfill those obligations. Moreover, offshore P&A liabilities can be very significant. As part of our strategic shift from offshore Gulf of Mexico operations to onshore U.S. operations, we divested our assets on the outer continental shelf (OCS) in the Gulf of Mexico (GoM). In connection with those divestitures, we entered into various arrangements with the purchasers whereby the purchasers assumed our P&A liabilities and other liabilities related to decommissioning such GoM assets. Since we entered into these arrangements, several onshore and offshore E&P companies have sought bankruptcy protection. If purchasers of our former GoM assets, or any successor owners of those assets, are unable to meet their P&A and other decommissioning obligations due to bankruptcy, dissolution or other related liquidity issues, we may be unable to rely on our arrangements with them to fulfill (or provide reimbursement for) those obligations. In those circumstances, the government may seek to impose the bankrupt entity's P&A obligations on us and any other predecessors in interest. Such payments could be significant and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Moreover, recent changes to the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management's (BOEM) bonding requirements have the potential to adversely impact the financial condition of operators in the GoM and increase the number of operators seeking bankruptcy protection, given the current commodities market. In July 2016, BOEM issued a Notice to Lessees and Operators (NTL) that augments requirements for the posting of additional financial assurance by offshore lessees, among others, to assure that sufficient funds are available to perform decommissioning obligations with respect to offshore wells, platforms, pipelines and other facilities. The NTL, which became effective in September 2016, eliminates the agency's past practice of waiving supplemental bonding obligations where a company could demonstrate a certain level of financial strength. Instead, BOEM will allow companies to \"self-insure,\" but only up to 10% of a company's \"tangible net worth,\" which is defined as the difference between a company's total assets and the value of all liabilities and intangible assets.. The NTL provides new procedures for how BOEM determines a lessee's decommissioning obligations, and the agency continues to negotiate with offshore operators to post additional financial assurance and develop tailored plans to meet BOEM's revised estimates for offshore decommissioning obligations. Projected decommissioning costs of operations in the GoM continue to increase, and the volatile price of oil and gas has adversely affected the net worth of many operators. BOEM's revisions to its supplemental bonding process could result in demands for the posting of increased financial assurance by the entities to whom we divested our GoM assets as well as other operators in the GoM. This will force operators to obtain surety bonds or other forms of financial assurance, the costs of which could be significant. Moreover, BOEM's NTL is likely to result in the loss of supplemental bonding waivers for a large number of operators on the OCS, which will in turn force these operators to seek additional surety bonds and could, consequently, exceed the surety bond market's ability to provide such additional financial assurance. Operators who have already leveraged their assets as a result of the volatile oil market could face difficulty obtaining surety bonds because of concerns the surety may have about the priority of their lien on the operators' collateral. Consequently, BOEM's changes could result in additional operators in the GoM initiating bankruptcy proceedings, which in turn could result in the government seeking to impose P&A costs on predecessors in interest in the event that the current operator cannot meet its P&A obligations. As a result, we could find ourselves liable to pay for the P&A costs of any entity we divested our GoM assets to, which payments could be significant and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Legislation or regulatory initiatives intended to address seismic activity in Oklahoma and elsewhere could increase our costs of compliance or lead to operational delays, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Water sourcing, use and disposal are common practices in oil and gas operations. We dispose of large volumes of water produced alongside oil and natural gas \"produced water\" or \"saltwater\" in connection with our drilling and production operations, pursuant to permits issued to us by governmental authorities overseeing such disposal activities. While these permits are issued under existing laws and regulations, these legal requirements are subject to change, which could result in the imposition of more stringent operating constraints or new monitoring and reporting requirements, owing to, among other things, concerns of the public or governmental authorities regarding such gathering or disposal activities.. There exists a growing concern that the injection of produced water into belowground disposal wells triggers seismic events in certain areas, including Oklahoma, where we operate. In response to recent seismic events near underground water disposal wells, federal and some state agencies are investigating whether certain high volume disposal wells have caused or. Table of Contents     Index to Financial Statements 24. contributed to increased seismic activity, and some states have restricted, suspended or shut down the use of such disposal wells that are located in close proximity to areas of increased seismic activity.. The Oklahoma Corporation Commission (OCC) evaluates existing disposal wells to assess their continued operation, or operation with restrictions, based on location relative to faults, seismicity and other factors, with well operators in certain geographic locations required to make frequent, or even daily, volume and pressure reports. In addition, the OCC has adopted rules requiring operators of certain saltwater disposal wells in the state to, among other things, conduct additional mechanical integrity testing or make certain demonstrations of such wells' depth that, depending on the depth, could require the plugging back of such wells to shallower depths and/or the reduction of volumes disposed in such wells. As a result of these measures, the OCC from time to time has developed and implemented plans calling for wells within Areas of Interest where seismic incidents have occurred to restrict or suspend disposal well operations in an attempt to mitigate the occurrence of such incidents. For example, OCC has established a 15 thousand square mile Area of Interest in the Arbuckle formation located primarily north and east of the Anadarko Basin in the Mississippi Lime play. Since 2013, OCC has prohibited disposal into the basement rock and ordered reduction of disposal volumes into the overlying Arbuckle formation and directed the shut-in of a number of Arbuckle disposal wells in response to seismic activity. In addition, in January 2016, the Governor of Oklahoma announced a grant of $1.4 million in emergency funds to support earthquake research to be directed by the OCC and the Oklahoma Geological Survey (OGS). During September and November 2016, in response to the occurrence of earthquakes in Cushing and Pawnee, Oklahoma, located in the northeast area of the Anadarko Basin, the OCC developed action plans in conjunction with the OGS and the EPA. The plans require reductions in disposal volumes in three concentric zones from the center of the earthquake activity in both Cushing and Pawnee, Oklahoma, with the greatest reductions in the zone located closest to the center of the largest quakes. These actions are in addition to any previous orders to shut in wells or reduce disposal volumes. Prior measures had already reduced disposal volumes in the areas of concern by up to 50 percent for some disposal wells. In the Pawnee area, the action plan covers a total of 38 Arbuckle disposal wells under OCC jurisdiction and 26 Arbuckle disposal wells under EPA jurisdiction and in the Cushing area the plan covers a total of 58 Arbuckle disposal wells. Local residents have also recently filed lawsuits against saltwater disposal well operators in these areas for damages resulting from the increased seismic activity.. Additionally, in recent years there has been increased public concern regarding an alleged potential for hydraulic fracturing to induce seismic events. In December 2016, the OCC announced the development of seismicity guidelines focused on operators in SCOOP and STACK to directly address concerns related to induced seismicity and hydraulic fracturing. The OCC has established three action levels to be followed if events are detected at a M2.5 or above and within 1.24 miles (2 km) of hydraulic fracturing activities.. Magnitude 2.5  -  OCC contacts the operator, discusses mitigation plan, operations may continue. Magnitude 3.0  -  required minimum six-hour pause, technical call with OCC regarding mitigations, operations continue with an approved and revised completion plan. Magnitude 3.5  -  required operations suspension, technical meeting with OCC and decision made to resume or halt operations based on approved and revised completion plan. On March 1, 2017, the OCC also issued a statement saying that further actions to reduce the earthquake rate in Oklahoma could be expected.. Restrictions on disposal well volumes or a lack of sufficient disposal wells, the filing of lawsuits, or curtailment or restrictions on oil and gas activity generally in response to concerns related to induced seismicity, could cause us to delay, curb or discontinue our exploration and development plans. Increased costs associated with restrictions on hydraulic fracturing or the transportation and disposal of produced water, including the cost of complying with regulations concerning produced water disposal or hydraulic fracturing, such as mandated produced water recycling in some portion or all of our operations or prohibitions on performing hydraulic fracturing in certain areas, may reduce our profitability.. These developments may result in additional levels of regulation, or increased complexity and costs with respect to existing regulations, that could lead to operational delays or increased operating and compliance costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.. Our use of oil, natural gas and NGL price derivative contracts may limit future revenues and cash flows from price increases and involves the risk that our counterparties may be unable to satisfy their obligations to us. Any inability to. Table of Contents     Index to Financial Statements 25. maintain our current derivative positions in the future specifically could result in financial losses or could reduce our income and cash flows. As part of our risk management program, we generally use derivative contracts to protect a substantial, but varying, portion of our anticipated future oil, gas and NGL production to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in oil, natural gas and NGL prices. A portion of our oil derivative contracts include sold puts. If market prices remain below our sold puts at contract settlement, we will receive the difference between our floors or swaps and the associated sold puts, limiting the downside protection of these contracts. In the case of acquisitions, we may use derivative contracts to protect acquired production from commodity price volatility for a longer period. While the use of derivative contracts may limit or reduce the downside risk of adverse price movements, their use also may limit future benefits from favorable price movements and expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances. Those circumstances include instances where our production is less than the volume subject to derivative contracts, there is a widening of price basis differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery points assumed in the derivative transactions or there are issues with regard to the legal enforceability of such instruments.. The use of derivative transactions also involves the risk that counterparties, which generally are financial institutions, will be unable to perform their financial and other obligations under such transactions. If any of our counterparties were to default on its obligations to us under the derivative contracts, enter receivership or seek bankruptcy or similar protection, that could result in an economic loss to us and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to fund our planned activities and could result in a larger percentage of our future production being subject to commodity price changes. In addition, in poor economic environments and tight financial markets, the risk of a counterparty default is heightened, and it is possible that fewer counterparties will participate in future derivative transactions, which could result in greater concentration of our exposure to any one counterparty or a larger percentage of our future production being subject to commodity price changes.. Additionally, in the past we have concluded that utilizing derivative contracts to lock in historically low prices for oil and natural gas for some of our anticipated future production is not in the best interest of the Company, and we may come to that conclusion again in the future. As a result, a meaningful portion of our future oil production could remain unhedged and subject to fluctuating market prices. If we are ultimately unable to, or choose not to, hedge additional expected oil production volumes for future periods, we will be subject to further potential commodity price volatility, which may result in lower than expected cash flows, revenues and income.. Our limited hedging of our NGL production and commodity basis differentials could adversely impact our cash flows and revenue.    The market for hedging NGL and commodity basis differentials is less robust than for oil and natural gas priced at WTI and Henry Hub, respectively. The current direct NGL and commodity basis differential hedging market is constrained in terms of price, volume, duration and number of counterparties. This limits our ability to hedge our NGL production and price difference based on point of sale effectively or at all. As a result, currently, we primarily hedge our oil and natural gas production priced at WTI and Henry Hub, respectively, and only recently began hedging a small portion of our NGL production. If the current price levels for NGLs continue or decrease in the future or the commodity basis differentials versus WTI or Henry Hub negatively increase, such as is the case with respect to our wax crude oil production, our cash flows and results of operations would be affected.. We have substantial capital requirements to fund our business plans that could be greater than cash flows from operations. Limited liquidity would likely negatively impact our ability to execute our business plan.    Our 2018 capital investment levels may exceed our projected cash flows from operations. As a result, we may use available cash or borrow funds under our credit facility, due in part to our decision to continue our drilling program in order to avoid future lease renewals to retain certain acreage. If necessary, we may continue to use cash on hand, sell non- strategic assets or potentially access public debt and/or equity markets to fund any shortfall. Our ability to generate operating cash flows is subject to many risks and variables, such as the level of production from existing wells; prices of oil, natural gas and NGLs; production costs; availability of economical gathering, processing, storage and transportation in our operating areas; our success in developing and producing new reserves and the other risk factors discussed in this Annual Report. Actual levels of capital expenditures may vary significantly due to many factors, including drilling results, commodity prices, industry conditions, the prices and availability of goods and services, unbudgeted acquisitions and the promulgation of new regulatory requirements. In addition, in the past, we often have increased our capital budget during the year as a result of acquisitions or changes in drilling plans. Alternatively, we may have to reduce capital expenditures, and our ability to execute our business plans could be adversely affected, if:. • we generate less operational cash flow than we anticipate;. • we are unable to sell non-strategic assets at acceptable prices;. • our customers or working interest owners default on their obligations to us;. Table of Contents     Index to Financial Statements 26. • one or more of the lenders under our existing credit arrangements fails to honor its contractual obligation to lend to us;. • investors limit funding or refrain from funding oil and gas companies; or. • we are unable to access the capital markets at a time when we would like, or need, to raise capital.. Our level of indebtedness and the restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness and other financial obligations may reduce our operating flexibility. As of December 31, 2017, we had total indebtedness of $2.4 billion. The indentures governing our outstanding notes and the agreements governing our other indebtedness and financial obligations contain, and any indenture that will govern other debt securities issued by us and any future agreements governing our other indebtedness and financial obligations may contain, various covenants that limit our ability and the ability of specified subsidiaries of ours to, among other things:. • incur additional indebtedness;. • purchase or redeem our outstanding equity interests or subordinated debt;. • make specified investments;. • create liens;. • sell assets;. • engage in specified transactions with affiliates;. • engage in sale-leaseback transactions; and. • effect a merger or consolidation with or into other companies or a sale of all or substantially all of our properties or assets.. These restrictions and our level of indebtedness could limit our ability to:. • obtain future financing;. • make needed capital expenditures;. • plan for, or react to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. • compete with similar companies that have less debt;. • withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general; or. • conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise.. Some of the agreements governing our indebtedness and other financial obligations also require the maintenance of specified financial ratios and the satisfaction of other financial conditions. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and conditions, and to comply with other covenants and restrictions in our financing agreements, can be affected by unexpected downturns in business operations beyond our control, such as a volatile commodity cost environment or an economic downturn. Accordingly, we may be unable to meet these obligations. This failure could impair our results of operations and cash flows and could restrict our ability to incur debt.. Our breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the terms of the relevant indebtedness, which could cause such indebtedness or other financial obligations to become immediately due and payable. If the lenders accelerate the repayment of borrowings or other amounts owed, we may not have sufficient assets to repay our indebtedness or other financial obligations, including our outstanding notes and any future debt securities. If we are unable to satisfy our obligations with cash on hand, we could attempt to refinance such debt, or repay such debt with the proceeds from a sale of assets or a public offering of securities. Factors that will affect our ability to successfully complete a public offering, refinance our debt or conduct an asset sale include financial market conditions and our market value, asset valuations and operating performance at the time of such offering or other financing.. A downgrade in our credit rating could negatively impact our cost of and ability to access capital. We receive debt ratings from the major credit rating agencies in the United States. Factors that may impact our credit ratings include debt levels, planned asset purchases or sales, and near-term and long-term production growth opportunities. Liquidity, asset quality, cost structure, product mix, and commodity pricing levels are also considered by the rating agencies. A ratings downgrade could adversely impact our ability to access debt markets in the future, increase the cost of future debt, and potentially require us to. Table of Contents     Index to Financial Statements 27. post letters of credit or other forms of collateral for certain obligations. A downgrade in our credit rating could negatively impact our cost of capital, our ability to issue future debt under terms similar to our existing debt or our ability to effectively execute aspects of our strategy. If we were downgraded, it could be difficult for us to raise debt in the public debt markets and the cost of any new debt could be much higher than our outstanding debt. See Note 11, \"Debt,\" to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report for additional information.. Actual quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL reserves and future cash flows from those reserves will most likely vary from our estimates. Estimating quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL reserves is complex and inexact. The process relies on interpretations of geologic, geophysical, engineering and production data. The extent, quality and reliability of these data can vary. The process also requires a number of economic assumptions, such as oil, natural gas and NGL prices, the relative mix of oil, natural gas and NGLs that will be ultimately produced, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, the effect of government regulation, taxes and availability of funds. The accuracy of a reserve estimate is a function of:. • the quality and quantity of available data;. • the interpretation of that data;. • the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions and our expected development plan; and. • the judgment of the persons preparing the estimate.. Actual quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL reserves, future oil, natural gas and NGL production and the relative mix of oil, natural gas and NGLs that will be ultimately produced, oil, natural gas and NGL prices, revenues, taxes, capital expenditures, effects of regulations, funding availability and drilling and operating expenses will most likely vary from our estimates. In addition, the methodologies and evaluation techniques that we use, which include the use of multiple technologies, data sources and interpretation methods, may be different than those used by our competitors. Further, reserve estimates are subject to the evaluator's criteria and judgment and show important variability, particularly in the early stages of development. Any significant variance could be systematic and undetected for an extended period of time, which would materially affect the quantities and net present value of our reserves. In addition, we may adjust estimates of reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development activities, prevailing oil, natural gas and NGL prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our reserves also may be susceptible to drainage by operators on adjacent properties.. In accordance with SEC requirements, we calculate the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves using the SEC's pricing methodology for calculating proved reserves, adjusted for market differentials and costs in effect at year end discounted at 10%. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs we used as of the date of an estimate. In addition, actual production rates for future periods may vary significantly from the rates assumed in the calculation. You should not assume that the present value of future net cash flows is the current market value of our proved reserves.. To maintain and grow our production and cash flows, we must continue to develop existing reserves and locate or acquire new reserves. Through our drilling programs and the acquisition of properties, we strive to maintain and grow our production and cash flows. However, as we produce from our properties, our reserves decline. Unless we successfully replace the reserves that we produce, the decline in our reserves will eventually result in a decrease in oil, natural gas and NGL production and lower revenue, income and cash flows from operations. Future oil, natural gas and NGL production is, therefore, highly dependent on our success in efficiently finding, developing or acquiring additional reserves that are economically recoverable. We may be unable to find, develop or acquire additional reserves or production at an acceptable cost, if at all. In addition, these activities require substantial capital expenditures.. Lower oil and gas prices and other factors have resulted in ceiling test impairments in the past and may result in future ceiling test or other impairments. We use the full cost method of accounting for our oil and gas producing activities. Under this method, all costs incurred in the acquisition, exploration and development of oil and gas properties are capitalized into cost centers that are established on a country-by-country basis. The net capitalized costs of our oil and gas properties may not exceed the present value of estimated future net revenues from proved reserves, discounted at 10%, plus the lower of cost or fair value of unproved properties. If net capitalized costs of our oil and gas properties exceed the cost center ceiling, we are subject to a ceiling test impairment to the extent of such excess. If required, a ceiling test impairment reduces income and stockholders' equity in the period of occurrence.. The risk that we will be required to further impair the carrying value of our oil and gas properties increases when oil, natural gas or NGL prices are low or volatile for a prolonged period of time. In addition, impairments may occur if we. Table of Contents     Index to Financial Statements 28. experience substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves or our unproved property values, or if estimated future development costs increase.. Drilling is a costly and high-risk activity. In addition to the numerous operating risks described in more detail below, the drilling of wells involves the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. The seismic data and other technologies we use do not allow us to know conclusively prior to drilling a well that oil, natural gas or NGLs are present or may be produced economically. In addition, we are often uncertain of the future cost or timing of drilling, completing and producing wells. Furthermore, our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including:. • increases in the costs of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, drilling rigs, equipment and materials;. • decreases in oil, natural gas and NGLs prices;. • limited availability to us of financing on acceptable terms;. • adverse weather conditions and changes in weather patterns;. • unexpected operational events and drilling conditions;. • abnormal pressure or irregularities in geologic formations;. • surface access restrictions;. • access to, and costs for, water needed in our waterflood project in the Greater Monument Butte Unit (GMBU);. • the presence of underground sources of drinking water, previously unknown water or other extraction wells or endangered or threatened species;. • embedded oilfield drilling and service tools;. • equipment failures or accidents;. • lack of necessary services or qualified personnel;. • availability and timely issuance of required governmental permits and licenses;. • loss of title and other title-related issues;. • availability, costs and terms of contractual arrangements, such as leases, pipelines and related facilities to gather, process and compress, transport and market oil, natural gas and NGLs; and. • compliance with, or changes in, environmental, tax and other laws and regulations.. As we implement pad development and increase the lateral length and size of hydraulic fracturing stimulations of our horizontal wells, the costs and other impacts associated with any curtailment, delay or cancellation may increase due to the concentration of capital expenditures prior to bringing production online. Future drilling activities may not be successful, and if unsuccessful, this could have an adverse effect on our future results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. The oil and gas business involves many operating risks that can cause substantial losses. Our oil and gas exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and gas, including the risk of:. • fires and explosions;. • blow-outs and cratering;. • uncontrollable or unknown flows of oil, gas or well fluids;. • pipe or cement failures and casing collapses;. • pipeline or other facility ruptures and spills;. • equipment malfunctions or operator error;. • discharges of toxic gases;. • induced seismic events;. Table of Contents     Index to Financial Statements 29. • environmental costs and liabilities due to our use, generation, handling and disposal of materials, including wastes, hydrocarbons and other chemicals; and. • environmental damages caused by previous owners of property we purchase and lease.. Some of these risks or hazards could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows by reducing or shutting in production from wells, loss of equipment or otherwise negatively impacting the projected economic performance of our prospects. If any of these risks occur, we could incur substantial losses as a result of:. • injury or loss of life;. • severe damage or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment;. • pollution and other environmental damage;. • investigatory and clean-up responsibilities;. • regulatory investigation and penalties or lawsuits;. • limitation on or suspension of our operations; and. • repairs and remediation costs to resume operations.. The magnitude of these risks may increase due to the increase in lateral length, larger multi-stage hydraulic fracturing stimulations for our horizontal wells and the implementation of pad development because of the larger amounts of liquids, chemicals and proppants involved.. Further, offshore operations are subject to a variety of additional operating risks, such as capsizing, collisions and damage or loss from typhoons or other adverse weather conditions. These conditions could cause substantial damage to facilities and interrupt production. Our China operations are dependent upon the availability, proximity and capacity of gathering systems and processing facilities that we do not own. Necessary infrastructures have been in the past, and may be in the future, temporarily unavailable due to adverse weather conditions or other reasons, or they may not be available to us in the future on acceptable terms or at all. For example, production from our operated Pearl field in the South China Sea was suspended during the third quarter of 2017 due to a mechanical issue associated with a third-party floating production, storage and offloading vessel located approximately 10 miles from the field, resulting in only one lifting during the quarter.. In addition, our hydraulic fracturing operations require significant quantities of water. Regions in which we operate have recently experienced drought conditions. Any diminished access to water for use in hydraulic fracturing, whether due to usage restrictions or drought or other weather conditions, could curtail our operations or otherwise result in delays in operations or increased costs related to finding alternative water sources.. Failure or loss of equipment, as the result of equipment malfunctions, cyber-attacks or natural disasters, could result in property damages, personal injury, environmental pollution and other damages for which we could be liable. Catastrophic occurrences giving rise to litigation, such as a well blowout, explosion or fire at a location where our equipment and services are used, may result in substantial claims for damages. Ineffective containment of a drilling well blowout or pipeline rupture could result in extensive environmental pollution and substantial remediation expenses, as well as governmental fines and penalties. If our production is interrupted significantly, our efforts at containment are ineffective or litigation arises as the result of a catastrophic occurrence, our cash flows, and in turn, our results of operations, could be materially and adversely affected.. In connection with our operations, we generally require our contractors, which include the contractor, its parent, subsidiaries and affiliate companies, its subcontractors, their agents, employees, directors and officers, to agree to indemnify us for injuries and deaths of their employees, contractors, subcontractors, agents and directors, and any property damage suffered by the contractors. There may be times, however, that we are required to indemnify our contractors for injuries and other losses resulting from the events described above, which indemnification claims could result in substantial losses to us. Contractor or customer contracts may also contain inadequate indemnity clauses, exposing us to unexpected losses or an unfavorable litigation position, and could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. While we maintain insurance against some potential losses or liabilities arising from our operations, our insurance does not protect us against all operational risks. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events and any costs or liabilities incurred as a result of such events, if uninsured or in excess of our insurance coverage or not indemnified, could reduce revenue, income and. Table of Contents     Index to Financial Statements 30. cash flows and the funds available to us for our exploration, development and production activities and could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See also \" -  We may not be insured against all of the operating risks to which our business is exposed.\". Our identified drilling locations are scheduled out over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. Our management has specifically identified and scheduled drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. These drilling locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations is subject to a number of uncertainties, including oil, natural gas and NGL prices, the availability of capital, costs, drilling results, regulatory approvals, available transportation capacity, and other factors. If future drilling results in these projects do not establish sufficient reserves to achieve an economic return, we may curtail drilling in these projects. Additionally, as we transition STACK and SCOOP to pad development, there may be significant delays in bringing new wells online, which could result in inconsistent growth and possibly short term declines in our production from those plays.. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the numerous potential drilling locations we have identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil, natural gas or NGLs from these or any other potential drilling locations. In addition, unless production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres on which some of the locations are identified, the leases for such acreage will expire. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified. Currently low oil prices, reduced capital spending and numerous other factors, many of which are beyond our control, could result in our failure to establish production on undeveloped acreage, and, if we are not able to renew leases before they expire, any proved undeveloped reserves associated with such leases will be removed from our proved reserves. The combined net acreage expiring in the next three years represents 73% of our total net undeveloped acreage at December 31, 2017. At that date, we had leases representing approximately 80,000 net undeveloped acres expiring in 2018, approximately 56,000 net undeveloped acres expiring in 2019, and approximately 29,000 net undeveloped acres expiring in 2020. Our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our proved undeveloped reserves may not be ultimately developed or produced. The development of our proved undeveloped reserves may take longer and may require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate.  At December 31, 2017, approximately 41% of our total estimated proved reserves (by volume) were undeveloped and may not be ultimately developed or produced. Recovery of undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. Our reserve estimates assume we can and will make these expenditures and conduct these operations successfully. These assumptions, however, may not prove to be accurate. We cannot be certain that the estimated costs of the development of these reserves are accurate, that development will occur as scheduled, or that the results of such development will be as estimated. If we choose not to spend the capital to develop these reserves, or if we are not otherwise able to successfully develop these reserves, we will be required to remove the associated volumes from our reported proved reserves. In addition, under the SEC's reserve rules, because proved undeveloped reserves may be booked only if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years of the date of booking, we may be required to remove any proved undeveloped reserves that are not developed within this five-year time frame. A removal of such reserves could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. The potential adoption of federal, state, tribal and local legislative and regulatory initiatives related to hydraulic fracturing could result in operating restrictions or delays in the completion of oil and gas wells. Hydraulic fracturing is an essential and common practice in the oil and gas industry used to stimulate production of natural gas and/or oil from dense subsurface rock formations. We routinely apply hydraulic fracturing techniques on almost all of our U.S. onshore oil and natural gas properties. Hydraulic fracturing involves using water, sand or other proppant materials, and certain chemicals to fracture the hydrocarbon-bearing rock formation to allow flow of hydrocarbons into the wellbore.. As explained in more detail below, the hydraulic fracturing process is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas agencies, although the EPA, the BLM and other federal regulatory agencies have taken steps to review or impose federal regulatory requirements. Certain states in which we operate, have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations or otherwise seek to ban fracturing activities altogether. Certain municipalities have already banned hydraulic fracturing, and courts have upheld those moratoria in some instances. In the past several years, dozens of states have approved or considered additional legislative mandates or administrative rules on hydraulic fracturing. See the risk factor \"Legislation or regulatory initiatives intended to address seismic activity in Oklahoma and elsewhere could increase our costs of compliance or lead to operational delays, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations,. Table of Contents     Index to Financial Statements 31. cash flows or financial condition\" for more information on action taken by certain states to regulate hydraulic fracturing activity.. At the federal level, the EPA has taken numerous actions. See Items 1 and 2, \"Business and Properties  -  Regulation  - Environmental Regulations  -  Hydraulic Fracturing,\" for more information on such actions. The adoption of new federal rules or regulations relating to hydraulic fracturing could require us to obtain additional permits or approvals or to install expensive pollution control equipment for our operations, which in turn could lead to increased operating costs, delays and curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities, which in turn could materially adversely affect our operations.. In December 2016, the EPA released its final report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources. The final report concluded that \"water cycle\" activities associated with hydraulic fracturing may impact drinking water resources \"under some circumstances,\" noting that the following hydraulic fracturing water cycle activities and local- or regional-scale factors are more likely than others to result in more frequent or more severe impacts: water withdrawals for fracturing in times or areas of low water availability; surface spills during the management of fracturing fluids, chemicals or produced water; injection of fracturing fluids into wells with inadequate mechanical integrity; injection of fracturing fluids directly into groundwater resources; discharge of inadequately treated fracturing wastewater to surface waters; and disposal or storage of fracturing wastewater in unlined pits. Since the report did not find a direct link between hydraulic fracturing itself and contamination of groundwater resources, we do not believe that this multi-year study report provides any basis for further regulation of hydraulic fracturing at the federal level.. Based on the foregoing, increased regulation and attention given to the hydraulic fracturing process from federal agencies, various states and local governments could lead to greater opposition, including litigation, to oil and gas production activities using hydraulic fracturing techniques. Additional legislation or regulation could also lead to operational delays or increased operating costs in the production of oil, natural gas and NGLs, including from the developing shale plays, or could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing. The adoption of any federal, state or local laws or the implementation of regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing could potentially cause a decrease in the completion of new oil and gas wells and increased compliance costs and time, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our ability to produce oil, natural gas and NGLs economically and in commercial quantities could be impaired if we are unable to acquire adequate supplies of water for our drilling operations or are unable to dispose of or recycle the water we use economically and in an environmentally safe manner. Development activities require the use of water. For example, the hydraulic fracturing process that we employ to produce commercial quantities of NGLs, natural gas and oil from many reservoirs requires the use and disposal of significant quantities of water in addition to the water we use to develop our waterflood in the GMBU. In certain regions, there may be insufficient local capacity to provide a source of water for drilling activities. In these cases, water must be obtained from other sources and transported to the drilling site, adding to the operating cost. Our inability to secure sufficient amounts of water, or to dispose of or recycle the water used in our operations, could adversely impact our operations in certain areas. Moreover, the imposition of new environmental initiatives and regulations could include restrictions on our ability to conduct certain operations, such as hydraulic fracturing or disposal of waste, including, but not limited to, produced water, drilling fluids and other materials associated with the exploration, development or production of NGLs, natural gas and oil. In recent history, public concern surrounding increased seismicity has heightened focus on our industry's use of water in operations, which may cause increased costs, regulations or environmental initiatives impacting our use or disposal of water. See the risk factor \"Legislation or regulatory initiatives intended to address seismic activity in Oklahoma and elsewhere could increase our costs of compliance or lead to operational delays, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition\" for more information on action taken by certain states to regulate hydraulic fracturing activity with respect to induced seismicity. Furthermore, future environmental regulations governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of wells could cause delays, interruptions or termination of operations, which may result in increased operating costs and have an effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.. The marketability of our production is dependent upon transportation and processing facilities over which we may have no control. The marketability of our production depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines, natural gas gathering systems and processing facilities. We deliver oil, natural gas and NGLs through gathering systems and pipelines that we do not own. The lack of available capacity on these systems and facilities could reduce the price offered for our production or result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. Although we have some contractual control over the transportation of our production through some firm transportation arrangements, third-party systems and facilities may be temporarily unavailable due to market conditions or mechanical or. Table of Contents     Index to Financial Statements 32. other reasons, or may not be available to us in the future at a price that is acceptable to us. New regulations on the transportation of oil by rail, like those finalized by the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) in 2015, may increase our transportation costs. In addition, federal and state regulation of natural gas and oil production, processing and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand, pipeline pressures, damage to or destruction of pipelines, infrastructure or capacity constraints and general economic conditions could adversely affect our ability to produce, gather and transport natural gas. Any significant change in market factors or other conditions affecting these infrastructure systems and facilities, as well as any delays in constructing new infrastructure systems and facilities, could harm our business and, in turn, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We may be involved in legal proceedings that could result in substantial liabilities.    Like many companies in the oil and gas industry, we are from time to time involved in various legal and other proceedings, such as title, royalty or contractual disputes, regulatory compliance matters and personal injury or property damage matters, in the ordinary course of our business. Such legal proceedings are inherently uncertain and their results cannot be predicted. Regardless of the outcome, such proceedings could have an adverse impact on us because of legal costs, diversion of management and other personnel and other factors. In addition, it is possible that a resolution of one or more such proceedings could result in liability, penalties or sanctions, as well as judgments, consent decrees or orders requiring a change in our business practices, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. Accruals for such liability, penalties or sanctions may be insufficient. Judgments and estimates to determine accruals or range of losses related to legal and other proceedings could change from one period to the next, and such changes could be material.. We are subject to complex laws and regulatory actions that can affect the cost, manner, feasibility or timing of doing business. Existing and potential regulatory actions could increase our costs and reduce our liquidity, delay our operations or otherwise alter the way we conduct our business. Exploration and development and the production and sale of oil, natural gas and NGLs are subject to extensive federal, state, provincial, tribal, local and international regulation. We may be required to make large expenditures to comply with environmental, natural resource protection, and other governmental regulations. Matters subject to regulation include the following, in addition to the other matters discussed under the caption \"Regulation\" in Items 1 and 2 of this report:. • restrictions for the protection of wildlife that regulate the time, place and manner in which we conduct operations;. • the amounts, types and manner of substances and materials that may be released into the environment;. • response to unexpected releases into the environment;. • reports and permits concerning exploration, drilling, production and other operations;. • the placement and spacing of wells;. • cement and casing strength;. • unitization and pooling of properties;. • calculating royalties on oil and gas produced under federal and state leases; and. • taxation.. Under these laws, we could be liable for personal injuries, property damage, oil spills, discharge of hazardous materials into the environment, remediation and clean-up costs, natural resource risk mitigation, damages and other environmental or habitat damages. We also could be required to install and operate expensive pollution controls, engage in environmental risk management, incur increased waste disposal costs, or limit or even cease activities on lands located within wilderness, wetlands or other environmentally or politically sensitive areas.. In addition, failure to comply with applicable laws also may result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties as well as the imposition of corrective action orders. Any such liabilities, penalties, suspensions, terminations or regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. The matters described above and other potential legislative proposals, along with any applicable legislation introduced and passed in Congress or new rules or regulations promulgated by state or the US federal government, could increase our costs, reduce our liquidity, delay our operations or otherwise alter the way we conduct our business, negatively impacting our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See also \" -  The potential adoption of federal, state, tribal and local. Table of Contents     Index to Financial Statements 33. legislative and regulatory initiatives related to hydraulic fracturing could result in operating restrictions or delays in the completion of oil and gas wells.\". Although it is not possible at this time to predict whether proposed legislation or regulations will be adopted as initially written, if at all, or how legislation or new regulation that may be adopted would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions. Additional costs or operating restrictions associated with legislation or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows, in addition to the demand for the oil, natural gas and NGLs that we produce.. Climate change laws and regulations restricting emissions of \"greenhouse gases\" could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce while potential physical effects of climate change could disrupt our production and cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects. In response to findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases (GHGs) present an endangerment to public health and the environment, the EPA has adopted regulations under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act that, among other things address GHG emissions for certain sources.. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations. Severe limitations on GHG emissions could also adversely affect demand for the oil, natural gas and NGLs we produce and lower the value of our reserves, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Moreover, incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources as a means of addressing climate change could reduce demand for natural gas, oil and NGL. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods, droughts and other extreme climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our exploration and production operations.. We could be adversely affected by the credit risk of financial institutions. We have exposure to different counterparties, and we have entered into transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, investment banks, insurance companies, investment funds and other institutions. In the event of default of a counterparty, we would be exposed to credit risks. Deterioration in the credit markets may impact the credit ratings of our current and potential counterparties and affect their ability to fulfill their existing obligations to us and their willingness to enter into future transactions with us. We have exposure to financial institutions in the form of derivative contracts and insurance companies in the form of claims under our policies. In addition, if any lender under our credit facility or our money market lines of credit is unable to fund its commitment, our liquidity will be reduced by an amount up to the aggregate amount of such lender's commitment under our credit facility or our money market lines of credit.. We are exposed to counterparty credit risk as a result of our receivables. We are exposed to risk of financial loss from trade, joint venture, joint interest billing, and other receivables. We sell our oil, natural gas and NGLs to a variety of purchasers. Some of our purchasers and non-operating partners may experience credit downgrades or liquidity problems and may not be able to meet their financial obligations to us. Nonperformance by a trade creditor or non-operating partner could result in financial losses.. Federal legislation regarding swaps could adversely affect the costs of, or our ability to enter into, those transactions. Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act), which was passed by Congress and signed into law in July 2010, amends the Commodity Exchange Act (CEA) to establish a comprehensive new regulatory framework for over-the-counter derivatives, or swaps, and swaps market participants, such as Newfield. The Dodd-Frank Act requires certain swaps to be cleared through a derivatives clearing organization, unless an exception from mandatory clearing is available, and if the swap is subject to a clearing requirement, to be executed on a designated contract market or swap execution facility. To date, the CFTC has designated certain interest rate swaps and credit default swaps for mandatory clearing. The CFTC has not yet required the clearing of any other classes of swaps, including commodity swaps. Although we expect to qualify for the end-user exception from the clearing requirement for our swaps entered into to hedge our commercial risks, the application of the mandatory clearing requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, along with changes to the markets for swaps as a result of the trade execution requirement, may change the cost and availability of the swaps we use for hedging. If any of our swaps do not qualify for the commercial end-user exception, or if the cost of entering into uncleared swaps becomes prohibitive, we may be required to clear such transactions or execute them on a derivatives contract market or swap execution facility. In addition, certain banking regulators and the CFTC have adopted final rules. Table of Contents     Index to Financial Statements 34. establishing minimum margin requirements for uncleared swaps. Although we expect to qualify for the end-user exception from margin requirements for swaps entered into to hedge our commercial risks, the application of such requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the cost and availability of the swaps we use for hedging. If any of our swaps do not qualify for the commercial end-user exception, the posting of collateral could reduce our liquidity and cash available for capital expenditures and could reduce our ability to manage commodity price volatility and the volatility in our revenues and cash flows. Therefore, we are unable to determine the future costs on our derivative activities at this time.. Higher costs associated with the Dodd-Frank Act can create disincentives for end-users like Newfield to hedge their commercial risks, including market price fluctuations associated with anticipated production of oil and gas. The Dodd-Frank Act and related rules and regulations promulgated by CFTC could potentially increase the cost of Newfield's risk management activities, which could adversely affect our available liquidity, materially alter the terms of our swap contracts, reduce the availability of swaps to hedge or mitigate risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure existing swap contracts, and increase our regulatory compliance costs related to our swap activities. In addition, if we reduce our use of swaps, our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected, including by becoming more volatile and less predictable, which also could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. It is also possible that the Dodd-Frank Act and related rules and regulations could affect prices for commodities that we purchase, use or sell, which, in turn, could adversely affect our liquidity, revenues, cash flows and financial condition.. In December 2013, the CFTC re-proposed rules to amend the CEA to establish position limits for certain commodity futures and options contracts, and physical commodity swaps that are economically equivalent to such contracts, including those derivative instruments that we use. If the CFTC position limit regulations are ultimately adopted substantially in the form proposed, they could result in additional compliance costs and alter our ability to effectively manage our commercial risks. Until the CFTC adopts final rules with respect to position limits and any exemptions for bona fide derivative transactions or off-setting positions from those limits, we will be unable to determine whether the CFTC's proposed rules could result in additional derivative costs or adversely affect our ability to effectively manage our commercial risks.. In addition, the European Union and other non-U.S. jurisdictions are implementing regulations with respect to the derivatives market. To the extent Newfield transacts with counterparties in foreign jurisdictions, we may become subject to such regulations. At this time, the impact of such regulations is not clear.. A substantial majority of our producing properties are located in the SCOOP and STACK areas of Oklahoma, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in a single geographic area.  A substantial majority of our producing properties are geographically concentrated in the SCOOP and STACK areas of Oklahoma. At December 31, 2017, 70% of our total estimated proved reserves were attributable to properties located in these areas. As a result of this concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of regional supply and demand factors, delays or interruptions of production from wells in these areas caused by governmental regulation, processing or transportation capacity constraints, market limitations, availability of equipment and personnel, water shortages or other drought related conditions or interruption of the processing or transportation of oil, natural gas or NGLs. Such delays or interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Additionally, in November 2018 voters are likely to consider a ballot measure that would raise gross production taxes on wells drilled on or after July 1, 2015, from the current rate of 2 percent for 36 months and 7 percent thereafter for the life of the well to a flat rate of 7 percent. Such an increase in taxes could affect the economic viability of future drilling locations and current wells, affect our operating income and costs, possibly resulting in reserve reductions and impairments, and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Some of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that will expire unless production is established on the leases or units containing the leasehold acreage. For the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 80% of our total net acreage was held by production. Leases on oil and gas properties normally have a term of three to five years and will expire unless, prior to expiration of the lease term, production in paying quantities is established. If the leases expire and we are unable to renew them, we will lose the right to develop the related properties. The risk of the foregoing increases in periods of sustained low commodity prices due to the corresponding impact on our drilling plans and the likely decrease in what is considered economic production under the leases. Our drilling plans for these areas are subject to change based upon various factors, including commodity prices, drilling results, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, the availability of drilling services and equipment, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints and regulatory approvals.. Table of Contents     Index to Financial Statements 35. Certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to natural gas and oil exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. In past years, legislation has been proposed that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to U.S. tax laws, including to certain key U.S. federal income tax provisions currently available to oil and gas companies. Such legislative changes have included, but not been limited to:. • the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties;. • the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs;. • the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities; and. • an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures.. Although these provisions were largely unchanged in the Tax Act, which was signed on December 22, 2017, Congress could consider, and could include, some or all of these proposals as part of future tax reform legislation, to accompany lower federal income tax rates. Moreover, other more general features of any additional tax reform legislation, including changes to cost recovery rules, may be developed that also would change the taxation of oil and gas companies. It is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted in future legislation and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could take effect. The passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that currently are available with respect to oil and gas development or increase costs, and any such changes could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. We have risks associated with our China operations. Ownership of property interests and production operations in China are subject to the various risks inherent in international operations. These risks may include:. • currency restrictions, exchange rate fluctuations, or other activities that disrupt markets and restrict payments or the movement of funds;. • loss of revenue, property and equipment as a result of hazards such as expropriation, nationalization, war, piracy, acts of terrorism, insurrection, civil unrest and other political risks or other changes in government;. • difficulties obtaining permits or governmental approvals as a foreign operator;. • taxation policies, including increases in taxes and governmental royalties, retroactive tax claims and investment restrictions;. • transparency issues in general and, more specifically, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anticorruption compliance laws and issues;. • disruptions in international oil cargo shipping activities;. • physical, digital, internal and external security breaches;. • forced renegotiation of, unilateral changes to, or termination of contracts with, governmental entities and quasi- governmental agencies;. • changes in laws and policies governing operations in China;. • our limited ability to influence or control the operation or future development of non-operated properties;. • the operator's expertise or other labor problems;. • cultural differences;. • difficulties enforcing our rights against a governmental entity because of the doctrine of sovereign immunity and foreign sovereignty over our China operations; and. • other uncertainties arising out of foreign government sovereignty over our China operations.. Our China operations also may be adversely affected by the laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade, taxation, investment and transparency issues. In addition, if a dispute arises with respect to our China operations, we may be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of non-U.S. courts or may not be successful in subjecting non-U.S. persons to the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States. Realization of any of the factors listed above could materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.. Table of Contents     Index to Financial Statements 36. Competition for, or the loss of, our senior management or experienced technical personnel may negatively impact our operations or financial results. To a large extent, we depend on the services of our senior management and technical personnel and the loss of any key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our continued drilling success and the success of other activities integral to our operations will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain a seasoned management team and experienced explorationists, engineers, geologists and other professionals. In the past, competition for these professionals was strong, and in a continuing price recovery environment may become strong again, which could result in future retention and attraction issues.. Competition in the oil and gas industry is intense. We operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties and marketing oil, natural gas and NGLs. Our competitors include multinational oil and gas companies, major oil and gas companies, independent oil and gas companies, individual producers, financial buyers as well as participants in other industries supplying energy and fuel to consumers. During these periods, there is often a shortage of drilling rigs and other oilfield services. Many of our competitors have greater and more diverse resources than we do. In addition, high commodity prices, asset valuations and stiff competition for acquisitions have in the past, and may in the future, significantly increase the cost of available properties. We compete for the personnel and equipment required to explore, develop and operate properties. Our competitors also may have established long-term strategic positions and relationships in areas in which we may seek new entry. As a consequence, our competitors may be able to address these competitive factors more effectively than we can. If we are not successful in our competition for oil and gas reserves or in our marketing of production, our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations may be adversely affected.. Shortages of oilfield equipment, services, supplies and qualified field personnel could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Historically, there have been shortages of drilling rigs, hydraulic fracturing stimulation equipment and crews, and other oilfield equipment as demand for that equipment has increased along with the number of wells being drilled. The demand for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells, conduct hydraulic fracturing stimulations and conduct field operations can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with natural gas and oil prices, causing periodic shortages. These factors have caused significant increases in costs for equipment, services and personnel. Higher oil, natural gas, and NGL prices generally stimulate demand and result in increased prices for drilling rigs and crews, hydraulic fracturing stimulation equipment and crews and associated supplies, equipment, services and raw materials. Similarly, lower oil, natural gas and NGL prices generally result in a decline in service costs due to reduced demand for drilling and completion services.. Decreased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas industry in recent periods have led to declining costs of some oilfield equipment, services and supplies. However, if the current oil and gas market changes, and commodity prices continue to recover, we may face shortages of field personnel, drilling rigs, hydraulic fracturing stimulation equipment and crews or other equipment or supplies, which could delay or adversely affect our exploration and development operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, or restrict operations.. We may not be insured against all of the operating risks to which our business is exposed. Our operations are subject to all of the risks normally incident to the exploration for and the production of oil and natural gas, such as well blowouts, explosions, oil spills, releases of gas or well fluids, fires, pollution and adverse weather conditions, which could result in substantial losses to us. See also \" -  The oil and gas business involves many operating risks that can cause substantial losses.\" Exploration and production activities are also subject to risk from political developments such as terrorist acts, piracy, civil disturbances, war, expropriation or nationalization of assets, which can cause loss of or damage to our property. We maintain insurance against many, but not all, potential losses or liabilities arising from our operations in accordance with what we believe are customary industry practices and in amounts and at costs that we believe to be prudent and commercially practicable. Our insurance includes deductibles that must be met prior to recovery, as well as sub-limits and/or self-insurance. Additionally, our insurance is subject to exclusions and limitations. Our insurance does not cover every potential risk associated with our operations, including the potential loss of significant revenues. We can provide no assurance that our insurance coverage will adequately protect us against liability from all potential consequences, damages and losses.. We currently have insurance policies covering our onshore and offshore operations that include coverage for general liability, excess liability, physical damage to our oil and gas properties, operational control of wells, oil pollution, third- party liability, workers' compensation and employers' liability and other coverages. Consistent with insurance coverage generally available to the industry, our insurance policies provide limited coverage for losses or liabilities relating to pollution and other environmental issues, with broader coverage for sudden and accidental occurrences. For example, we maintain operators extra expense coverage provided by third-party insurers for obligations, expenses or claims that we may incur from a sudden incident that results in negative environmental effects, including obligations, expenses or claims related to seepage and pollution, cleanup and containment, evacuation expenses and control of the well (subject to policy terms and conditions). In the specific. Table of Contents     Index to Financial Statements 37. event of a well blowout or out-of-control well resulting in negative environmental effects, such operators extra expense coverage would be our primary source of coverage, with the general liability and excess liability coverage referenced above also providing certain coverage.. In the event we make a claim under our insurance policies, we will be subject to the credit risk of the insurers. Volatility and disruption in the financial and credit markets may adversely affect the credit quality of our insurers and impact their ability to pay claims.. Further, we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. Some forms of insurance may become unavailable in the future or unavailable on terms that we believe are economically acceptable. No assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain insurance in the future at rates that we consider reasonable, and we may elect to maintain minimal or no insurance coverage. If we incur substantial liability from a significant event and the damages are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits, then we would have lower revenues and funds available to us for our operations, that could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We may face various risk associated with the long term trend toward increased activism against oil and gas exploration and development activities.    Opposition toward oil and gas drilling and development activity has been growing globally. Companies in the oil and gas industry are often the target of activist efforts from both individuals and non-governmental organizations regarding safety, environmental compliance and business practices. Anti-development activists are working to, among other things, reduce access to federal and state government lands and delay or cancel certain projects such as the development of oil or gas shale plays. For example, environmental activists continue to advocate for increased regulations or bans on shale drilling and hydraulic fracturing in the United States, even in jurisdictions that are among the most stringent in their regulation of the industry. Future activist efforts could result in the following:. • delay or denial of drilling permits;. • shortening of lease terms or reduction in lease size;. • restrictions on installation or operation of production, gathering or processing facilities;. • restrictions on the use of certain operating practices, such as hydraulic fracturing, or the disposal of related waste materials, such as hydraulic fracturing fluids and produced water;. • increased severance and/or other taxes;. • cyber-attacks;. • legal challenges or lawsuits;. • negative publicity about our business or the oil and gas industry in general;. • increased costs of doing business;. • reduction in demand for our products; and. • other adverse effects on our ability to develop our properties and expand production.. We may need to incur significant costs associated with responding to these initiatives. Complying with any resulting additional legal or regulatory requirements that are substantial could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. We may be subject to risks in connection with acquisitions and divestitures. As part of our business strategy, we have made and will likely continue to make acquisitions of oil and gas properties and to divest non-strategic assets. Suitable acquisition properties or suitable buyers of our non-strategic assets may not be available on terms and conditions we find acceptable or not at all.. Acquisitions pose substantial risks to our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. These risks include that the acquired properties may not produce revenues, reserves, earnings or cash flows at anticipated levels. Also, the integration of properties we acquire could be difficult. In pursuing acquisitions, we compete with other companies, many of which have greater financial and other resources. The successful acquisition of properties requires an assessment of several factors, including:. Table of Contents     Index to Financial Statements 38. • recoverable reserves;. • exploration potential;. • future oil, natural gas and NGL prices and their relevant differentials;. • operating costs and production taxes; and. • potential environmental and other liabilities.. These assessments are complex and the accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain. In connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Our review will not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities.. In addition, our divestitures may pose significant residual risks to the Company, such as divestitures where we retain certain liabilities or we have legal successor liability due to the bankruptcy or dissolution of the purchaser. See for example \" -  We may be responsible for decommissioning liabilities for offshore interests we no longer own.\" Generally, uneconomic or unsuccessful acquisitions and divestitures may divert management's attention and financial resources away from our existing operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. We depend on computer and telecommunications systems, and failures in our systems or cyber security attacks could significantly disrupt our business operations. The oil and gas industry has become increasingly dependent upon digital technologies to conduct day-to-day operations including certain exploration, development and production activities. We have entered into agreements with third parties for hardware, software, telecommunications and other information technology services in connection with our business. In addition, we have developed proprietary software systems, management techniques and other information technologies incorporating software licensed from third parties. We depend on digital technology to estimate quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL reserves, process and record financial and operating data, analyze seismic and drilling information, and communicate with our employees and third party partners. Our business partners, including vendors, service providers, purchasers of our production and financial institutions, are also dependent on digital technology. It is possible we could incur interruptions from cyber security attacks, computer viruses or malware. We believe that we have positive relations with our related vendors and maintain adequate anti-virus and malware software and controls; however, any cyber incidents or interruptions to our arrangements with third parties, to our computing and communications infrastructure or our information systems could lead to data corruption, communication interruption, unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse or destruction of proprietary or other information, or otherwise significantly disrupt our business operations. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.. Hurricanes, typhoons, tornadoes, earthquakes and other natural disasters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Hurricanes, typhoons, tornadoes, earthquakes and other natural disasters can potentially destroy thousands of business structures and homes and, if occurring in the Gulf Coast region of the United States, could disrupt the supply chain for oil and gas products. Disruptions in supply could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Damages and higher prices caused by hurricanes, typhoons, tornadoes, earthquakes and other natural disasters could also have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow due to the impact on the business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow of our customers.. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, some of our arrangements with employees and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage an acquisition or change of control of us. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make it more difficult to affect a change of control, to acquire us or to replace incumbent management, including, for example, limitations on stockholders' ability to remove directors, call special meetings and to propose and nominate directors or otherwise propose actions for approval at stockholder meetings, as well as the ability of our board of directors to amend our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and to issue and set the terms of preferred stock without the approval of our stockholders. In addition, our change of control severance plan, change of control severance agreements with certain officers and our omnibus stock plans and deferred compensation plan contain provisions that provide for severance payments and accelerated vesting of benefits, including accelerated vesting of equity awards and acceleration of deferred compensation, upon a change of control. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law also imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. These provisions could discourage or prevent a change of control, even if it may be beneficial to our stockholders, or could reduce the price our stockholders receive in an acquisition of us.. Table of Contents     Index to Financial Statements 39. Delays in obtaining licenses, permits, and other government authorizations required to conduct our operations could adversely affect our business.  Our operations require licenses, permits, and in some cases renewals of licenses and permits from various governmental authorities. Our ability to obtain, sustain or renew such licenses and permits on acceptable terms is subject to changes in regulations and policies and to the discretion of the applicable government agencies, among other factors. Our inability to obtain, or our loss of or denial of extension, to any of these licenses or permits could hamper our ability to produce income, revenues or cash flows from our operations.. We may incur losses as a result of title defects in the properties in which we invest. The existence of a material title deficiency can render a lease worthless and can adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. While we typically obtain title opinions prior to commencing drilling operations on a lease or in a unit, the failure of title may not be discovered until after a well is drilled, in which case we may lose the lease and the right to produce all or a portion of the interest under the property.. As we continue to expand our operations in Oklahoma, North Dakota or Utah, we may operate within the boundaries of Native American reservations and become subject to certain tribal laws and regulations. An entirely separate and distinct set of laws and regulations applies to operators and other parties within the boundaries of Native American reservations in the United States. Various federal agencies within the U.S. Department of the Interior, particularly the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the Office of Natural Resources Revenue and Bureau of Land Management (BLM), and the EPA, together with each Native American tribe, promulgate and enforce regulations pertaining to oil and gas operations on Native American reservations. These regulations include lease provisions, environmental standards, tribal employment contractor preferences and numerous other matters.. Native American tribes are subject to various federal statutes and oversight by the Bureau of Indian Affairs and BLM. However, each Native American tribe is a sovereign nation and has the right to enact and enforce certain other laws and regulations entirely independent from federal, state and local statutes and regulations, as long as they do not supersede or conflict with such federal statutes. These tribal laws and regulations include various fees, taxes, requirements to employ Native American tribal members or use tribal owned service businesses and numerous other conditions that apply to lessees, operators and contractors conducting operations within the boundaries of a Native American reservation. Further, lessees and operators within a Native American reservation are often subject to the Native American tribal court system, unless there is a specific waiver of sovereign immunity by the Native American tribe allowing resolution of disputes between the Native American tribe and those lessees or operators to occur in federal or state court.. We therefore may become subject to various laws and regulations pertaining to Native American oil and gas leases, fees, taxes and other burdens, obligations and issues unique to oil and gas operations within Native American reservations. One or more of these Native American requirements, or delays in obtaining necessary approvals or permits necessary to operate on tribal lands pursuant to these regulations, may increase our costs of doing business on Native American tribal lands and have an impact on the economic viability of any well or project on those lands."
