[1] "ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. The following summarizes the most significant risk factors to our business. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. Any of these risk factors, either individually or in combination, could have significant adverse impacts to our results of operations and financial condition, or prevent us from meeting our profitability or growth objectives.. Risks Related to the Worldwide Oil and Natural Gas Industry. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from customers in the worldwide oil and natural gas industry; therefore, our risk factors include those factors that impact the demand for oil and natural gas. Spending by our customers for exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas is based on a number of factors, including expectations of future hydrocarbon demand, energy prices, the risks associated with developing reserves, our customers' ability to finance exploration and development of reserves, regulatory developments and the future value of the reserves. Reductions in customer spending levels adversely affect the demand for our services and consequently, our revenue and operating results; and the presence of these market conditions negatively affects our revenue and operating results. The key risk factors that we believe influence the worldwide oil and natural gas markets are discussed below.. Demand for oil and natural gas is subject to factors beyond our control. Demand for oil and natural gas, as well as the demand for our services, is highly correlated with global economic growth and in particular by the economic growth of countries such as the U.S., India, China, and developing countries in Asia and the Middle East. Weakness in global economic activity could reduce demand for oil and natural gas and result in lower oil and natural gas prices. In addition, demand for oil and natural gas could be impacted by environmental regulation, including cap and trade legislation, regulation of hydraulic fracturing, and carbon taxes. Weakness or deterioration of the global economy could reduce our customers' spending levels and reduce our revenue and operating results.. Supply of oil and natural gas is subject to factors beyond our control. The ability to produce oil and natural gas can be affected by the number and productivity of new wells drilled and completed, as well as the rate of production and resulting depletion of existing wells. Productive capacity in excess of demand is also an important factor influencing energy prices and spending by oil and natural gas exploration companies. Oil and natural gas storage inventory levels are indicators of the relative balance between supply and demand. Supply can also be impacted by the degree to which individual Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (\"OPEC\") nations and other large oil and natural gas producing countries are willing and able to control production and exports of hydrocarbons, to decrease or increase supply and to support their targeted oil price or meet market share objectives. Any of these factors could affect the supply of oil and natural gas and could have a material effect on our results of operations.. Volatility of oil and natural gas prices can adversely affect demand for our products and services. Volatility in oil and natural gas prices can also impact our customers' activity levels and spending for our products and services. The level of energy prices is important to the cash flow for our customers and their ability to fund exploration and development activities. Compared to 2011 to 2014 levels, oil prices have declined significantly due in large part to increasing supplies, weakening demand growth and the decision by OPEC countries to maintain production levels throughout 2015 and most of 2016. While OPEC production limits were put in place in late 2016 and maintained throughout 2017, expectations about future commodity prices and price volatility are important for determining future spending levels. Our customers also take into account the volatility of energy prices and other risk factors by requiring higher returns for individual projects if there is higher perceived risk.. Our customers' activity levels, spending for our products and services and ability to pay amounts owed us could be impacted by the ability of our customers to access equity or credit markets. Our customers' access to capital is dependent on their ability to access the funds necessary to develop oil and gas prospects. Limited access to external sources of funding has and may continue to cause customers to reduce their capital spending plans. In addition, a reduction of cash flow to our customers resulting from declines in commodity prices or the lack of available debt or equity financing may impact the ability of our customers to pay amounts owed to us.. Risks Related to our Customer Concentration and Reliance on the U.S. Exploration and Production Market. In 2017, approximately 45% of our consolidated revenues were derived from our 20 largest customers, although no customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues. In addition, approximately 62% of our consolidated revenues were derived from our U.S. operations.. 6. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2014 and continuing through early 2016, the price of oil declined dramatically from the price levels in previous years. Following this decline, North American drilling activity decreased significantly, which reduced the demand for our services and negatively impacted customer pricing in our North American operations, relative to pre-downturn levels. While oil prices and drilling activity have since improved from the lows reached in early 2016, there are no assurances that the price for oil or activity levels will not decline again in the future. Due to these changes, our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated significantly and may continue to fluctuate in future periods. Because our business has substantial fixed costs, including significant facility and personnel expenses, downtime or low productivity due to reduced demand can have a significant adverse impact on our profitability.. Risks Related to International Operations. We have significant operations outside of the United States, including certain areas of Canada, EMEA, Latin America, and Asia Pacific. In 2017, these international operations generated approximately 38% of our consolidated revenues. Algeria represents our largest international market with our total Algerian operations representing 12% of our consolidated revenues in 2017 and 8% of our total assets at December 31, 2017, including 28% of our total cash balance at December 31, 2017.. In addition, we may seek to expand to other areas outside the United States in the future. International operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including:. <U+25AA> difficulties and cost associated with complying with a wide variety of complex foreign laws, treaties and regulations;. <U+25AA> uncertainties in or unexpected changes in regulatory environments or tax laws;. <U+25AA> legal uncertainties, timing delays and expenses associated with tariffs, export licenses and other trade barriers;. <U+25AA> difficulties enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems;. <U+25AA> risks associated with failing to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, export laws, and other similar laws applicable to our operations in international markets;. <U+25AA> exchange controls or other limitations on international currency movements, including restrictions on the repatriation of funds to the U.S. from certain countries, such as Algeria;. <U+25AA> sanctions imposed by the U.S. government that prevent us from engaging in business in certain countries or with certain counter-parties;. <U+25AA> inability to obtain or preserve certain intellectual property rights in the foreign countries in which we operate;. <U+25AA> our inexperience in certain international markets;. <U+25AA> fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;. <U+25AA> political and economic instability; and. <U+25AA> acts of terrorism.. In addition, several North African markets in which we operate, including Tunisia, Egypt, Libya, and Algeria have experienced social and political unrest in past years, which, when they occur, negatively impact our operating results, and can include the temporary suspension of our operations. More recently in Brazil, the ongoing widely-publicized corruption investigation has continued to disrupt Petrobras' operations, which could negatively impact our operating results in Brazil.. Risks Related to the Cost and Continued Availability of Borrowed Funds, including Risks of Noncompliance with Debt Covenants. We employ borrowed funds as an integral part of our long-term capital structure and our future success is dependent upon continued access to borrowed funds to support our operations.  The availability of borrowed funds on reasonable terms is dependent on the condition of credit markets and financial institutions from which these funds are obtained. Adverse events in the financial markets may significantly reduce the availability of funds, which may have an adverse effect on our cost of borrowings and our ability to fund our business strategy. Our ability to meet our debt service requirements and the continued availability of funds under our existing or future loan agreements is dependent upon our ability to generate operating income and remain in compliance with the covenants in our debt agreements. This, in turn, is subject to the volatile nature of the oil and natural gas industry, and to competitive, economic, financial and other factors that are beyond our control.. We fund our ongoing operational needs through a $150 million asset-based revolving credit facility (the \"Amended ABL Facility\"). Borrowing availability under the Amended ABL Facility is calculated based on eligible accounts receivable, inventory, and, subject to satisfaction of certain financial covenants as described below, composite mats included in the rental fleet, net of reserves and limits on such assets included in the borrowing base calculation. To the extent pledged by us, the borrowing base calculation shall also include the amount of eligible pledged cash. The lender may establish reserves, in part based on appraisals of the asset base, and other limits at its discretion which could reduce the amounts otherwise available under the Amended ABL Facility. Availability associated with eligible rental mats will also be subject to maintaining a minimum consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio and a minimum level of operating income for the Mats and Integrated Services segment. The availability under the. 7. Amended ABL Facility is expected to fluctuate directionally with changes in our domestic accounts receivable, inventory, and composite mat rental fleet.. The Amended ABL Facility terminates on October 17, 2022; however, the Amended ABL Facility has a springing maturity date that will accelerate the maturity of the Amended ABL Facility to September 1, 2021 if, prior to such date, the convertible notes due 2021 (\"2021 Convertible Notes\") have not either been repurchased, redeemed, converted or we have not provided sufficient funds to repay the 2021 Convertible Notes in full on their maturity date. For this purpose, funds may be provided in cash to an escrow agent or a combination of cash to an escrow agent and the assignment of a portion of availability under the Amended ABL Facility. The Amended ABL Facility requires compliance with a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and minimum unused availability of $25.0 million to utilize borrowings or assignment of availability under the Amended ABL Facility towards funding the repayment of the 2021 Convertible Notes.. We are subject to compliance with a fixed charge coverage ratio covenant if our borrowing availability falls below $22.5 million. If we are unable to make required payments under the Amended ABL Facility or other indebtedness of more than $25.0 million, or if we fail to comply with the various covenants and other requirements of the Amended ABL Facility, we would be in default thereunder, which would permit the holders of the indebtedness to accelerate the maturity thereof, unless we are able to obtain, on a timely basis, a necessary waiver or amendment. Any waiver or amendment may require us to revise the terms of our agreements which could increase the cost of our borrowings, require the payment of additional fees, and adversely impact the results of our operations. Upon the occurrence of any event of default that is not waived, the lenders could elect to exercise any of their available remedies, which include the right to not lend any additional amounts or, in the event we have outstanding indebtedness under the Amended ABL Facility, to declare any outstanding indebtedness, together with any accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. If we are unable to repay the outstanding indebtedness, if any, under the Amended ABL Facility when due, the lenders would be permitted to proceed against their collateral. In the event any outstanding indebtedness in excess of $25.0 million is accelerated, this could also cause an event of default under our 2021 Convertible Notes. The acceleration of any of our indebtedness and the election to exercise any such remedies could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. Risks Related to Operating Hazards Present in the Oil and Natural Gas Industry. Our operations are subject to hazards present in the oil and natural gas industry, such as fire, explosion, blowouts, oil spills and leaks or spills of hazardous materials (both onshore and offshore). These incidents as well as accidents or problems in normal operations can cause personal injury or death and damage to property or the environment. Our customers' operations can also be interrupted and it is possible that such incidents can interrupt our ongoing operations and the ability to provide our services. From time to time, customers seek recovery for damage to their equipment or property that occurred during the course of our service obligations. Damage to our customers' property and any related spills of hazardous materials could be extensive if a major problem occurred. We purchase insurance which may provide coverage for incidents such as those described above, however, the policies may not provide coverage or a sufficient amount of coverage for all types of damage claims that could be asserted against us. See the section entitled \"Risks Related to the Inherent Limitations of Insurance Coverage\" for additional information.. Risks Related to Business Acquisitions and Capital Investments. Our ability to successfully execute our business strategy will depend, among other things, on our ability to make capital investments and acquisitions which provide us with financial benefits. In November 2017, we acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of WSG for approximately $78 million.  WSG has been a strategic logistics and installation service provider for our Mats and Integrated Service segment, offering a variety of complementary services to the composite matting systems, including access road construction, site planning and preparation, environmental protection, fluids and spill storage/containment, erosion control, and site restoration services. In addition, our 2018 capital expenditures are expected to range between $20 million to $25 million (exclusive of any acquisitions). These acquisitions and investments are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including:. <U+25AA> incorrect assumptions regarding business activity levels or results from our capital investments, acquired operations or assets;. <U+25AA> failure to complete a planned acquisition transaction or to successfully integrate the operations or management of any acquired businesses or assets in a timely manner, including the WSG acquisition mentioned above;. <U+25AA> diversion of management's attention from existing operations or other priorities;. <U+25AA> unanticipated disruptions to our business associated with the implementation of our enterprise-wide operational and financial system; and. <U+25AA> delays in completion and cost overruns associated with large capital investments.. Any of the factors above could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 8. Risks Related to the Availability of Raw Materials and Skilled Personnel. Our ability to provide products and services to our customers is dependent upon our ability to obtain the raw materials and qualified personnel necessary to operate our business.. Barite is a naturally occurring mineral that constitutes a significant portion of our drilling fluids systems. We currently secure the majority of our barite ore from foreign sources, primarily China and India. The availability and cost of barite ore is dependent on factors beyond our control including transportation, political priorities and government imposed export fees in the exporting countries, as well as the impact of weather and natural disasters. The future supply of barite ore from existing sources could be inadequate to meet the market demand, particularly during periods of increasing world-wide demand, which could ultimately restrict industry activity or our ability to meet customer's needs.. Our mats business is highly dependent on the availability of high-density polyethylene (\"HDPE\"), which is the primary raw material used in the manufacture of our DURA-BASE mats. The cost of HDPE can vary significantly based on the energy costs of the producers of HDPE, demand for this material, and the capacity/operations of the plants used to make HDPE. Should our cost of HDPE increase, we may not be able to increase our customer pricing to cover our costs, which may result in a reduction in future profitability.. All of our businesses are also highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled engineers, technical sales and service personnel. The market for these employees is competitive, and if we cannot attract and retain quality personnel, our ability to compete effectively and to grow our business will be severely limited. Also, a significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction in our skilled labor force or an increase in our operating costs.. Risk Related to our Market Competition. We face competition in the Fluids Systems business from larger companies, including Halliburton and Schlumberger, which compete vigorously on fluids performance and/or price. In addition, these companies have broad product and service offerings in addition to their drilling fluids. At times, these larger companies attempt to compete by offering discounts to customers to use multiple products and services from our competitors, some of which we do not offer. We also have smaller regional competitors competing with us mainly on price and local relationships. Our competition in the Mats and Integrated Services business is fragmented, with many competitors providing various forms of mat products and services. More recently, several competitors have begun marketing composite products to compete with our DURA-BASE mat system. While we believe the design and manufacture of our mat products provide a differentiated value to our customers, many of our competitors seek to compete on pricing. Some of the early patents we received related to our DURA-BASE mat system will expire in 2020 and competitors may begin offering mats that include features described in those patents.  We have filed legal  actions against competitors in the U.S. to enforce our patents, and have filed for additional patents, but there is no assurance that these actions will be successful or that competitors will not be able to offer matting products that are substantially similar to the DURA-BASE mat system.. Risk Related to Offering New Products and Offering Existing Products in New Markets. As a key component of our long-term strategy in both operating segments, we seek to continue to expand our product and service offerings and enter new customer markets with our existing products.  As with any market expansion effort, new customer and product markets include inherent uncertainties regarding customer expectations, industry-specific regulatory requirements, product performance and customer-specific risk profiles.  As such, new market entry is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Matters, Including Environmental Regulations. We are responsible for complying with numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations and policies that govern environmental protection, zoning and other matters applicable to our current and past business activities, including the activities of our former subsidiaries. Failure to remain compliant with these laws, regulations and policies may result in, among other things, fines, penalties, costs of cleanup of contaminated sites and site closure obligations, or other expenditures. Further, any changes in the current legal and regulatory environment could impact industry activity and the demands for our products and services, the scope of products and services that we provide, or our cost structure required to provide our products and services, or the costs incurred by our customers.. Many of the markets for our products and services are dependent on the continued exploration for and production of fossil fuels (predominantly oil and natural gas). Climate change is receiving increased attention worldwide. Many scientists, legislators and others attribute climate change to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide attributed to the use of fossil fuels, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. The Environmental Protection Agency (the \"EPA\") and other domestic and foreign regulatory agencies have adopted regulations that potentially limit greenhouse gas emissions and impose reporting obligations on large greenhouse gas emission sources. In addition, the EPA has adopted rules that could require the reduction of certain air emissions during exploration and production of oil and gas. To the extent that laws and regulations enacted as part of climate change legislation increase the costs of drilling for or. 9. producing such fossil fuels, limit or restrict oil and natural gas exploration and production, or reduce the demand for fossil fuels, such legislation could have a material adverse impact on our operations and profitability.. Hydraulic fracturing is a common practice used by E&P operators to stimulate production of hydrocarbons, particularly from shale oil and gas formations in the United States. The process of hydraulic fracturing, which involves the injection of sand (or other forms of proppants) laden fluids into oil and gas bearing zones, has come under increasing scrutiny from a variety of regulatory agencies, including the EPA and various state authorities. Several states have adopted regulations requiring operators to identify the chemicals used in fracturing operations, others have adopted moratoriums on the use of fracturing, and the State of New York has banned the practice altogether. In addition, concerns have been raised about whether injection of waste associated with hydraulic fracturing operations or from the fracturing operations themselves, may cause or increase the impact of earthquakes.  Studies are in process regarding the correlation between hydraulic fracturing and earthquakes. Although we do not provide hydraulic fracturing services, we have begun to offer stimulation fluids used in the hydraulic fracturing process. Regulations which have the effect of limiting the use or significantly increasing the costs of hydraulic fracturing, could have a significant negative impact on both the drilling and stimulation activity levels of our customers, and, therefore, the demand for our products and services.. Risks Related to the Inherent Limitations of Insurance Coverage. While we maintain liability insurance, this insurance is subject to coverage limitations. Specific risks and limitations of our insurance coverage include the following:. <U+25AA> self-insured retention limits on each claim, which are our responsibility;. <U+25AA> exclusions for certain types of liabilities and limitations on coverage for damages resulting from pollution;. <U+25AA> coverage limits of the policies, and the risk that claims will exceed policy limits; and. <U+25AA> the financial strength and ability of our insurance carriers to meet their obligations under the policies.. In addition, our ability to continue to obtain insurance coverage on commercially reasonable terms is dependent upon a variety of factors impacting the insurance industry in general, which are outside our control. Any of the issues noted above, including insurance cost increases, uninsured or underinsured claims, or the inability of an insurance carrier to meet their financial obligations could have a material adverse effect on our profitability.. Risks Related to the Ongoing Effects of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and the Refinement of Provisional Estimates. The U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"Tax Act\") was enacted on December 22, 2017, resulting in broad and complex changes to U.S. income tax law. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate in the future as a result of the Tax Act, which introduces significant changes to U.S. income tax law that will have a meaningful impact on our provision for income taxes. Accounting for the income tax effects of the Tax Act requires significant judgments and estimates in the interpretation and calculations of the provisions of the Tax Act. Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the Tax Act, we made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017. The U.S. Treasury Department, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\"), and other standard-setting bodies may issue guidance on how the provisions of the Tax Act will be applied or otherwise administered that is different from our interpretation. As we finalize the necessary data, and interpret the Tax Act and any additional guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS or other standard-setting bodies, we may make adjustments to the provisional amounts that could materially affect our financial position and results of operations as well as our effective tax rate in the period in which the adjustments are made.. Risks Related to Potential Impairments of Long-lived Intangible Assets. As of December 31, 2017, our consolidated balance sheet includes $43.6 million in goodwill and $30.0 million of intangible assets, net, substantially all of which relates to the Mats and Integrated Services segment. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently as the circumstances require, if any qualitative factors exist. In completing this annual evaluation during the fourth quarter of 2017, we determined that no reporting unit has a fair value below its net carrying value, and therefore, no impairment is required.. However, if the financial performance or future projections for our operating segments deteriorate from current levels, a future impairment of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets may be required, which would negatively impact our financial results in the period of impairment.. Risks Related to Technological Developments and Intellectual Property in our Industry. The market for our products and services is characterized by continual technological developments that generate substantial improvements in product functions and performance. If we are not successful in continuing to develop product enhancements or new products that are accepted in the marketplace or that comply with industry standards, we could lose market share to competitors, which would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.. 10. Our success can be affected by our development and implementation of new product designs and improvements and by our ability to protect and maintain critical intellectual property assets related to these developments. Although in many cases our products are not protected by any registered intellectual property rights, in other cases we rely on a combination of patents and trade secret laws to establish and protect this proprietary technology.  While patent rights give the owner of a patent the right to exclude third parties from making, using, selling, and offering for sale the inventions claimed in the patents, they do not necessarily grant the owner of a patent the right to practice the invention claimed in a patent.  It may also be possible for a third party to design around our patents.  We do not have patents in every country in which we conduct business and our patent portfolio will not protect all aspects of our business. When patent rights expire, competitors are generally free to offer the technology and products that were covered by the patents.. We also protect our trade secrets by customarily entering into confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees, customers and potential customers and suppliers.  Our rights in our confidential information, trade secrets, and confidential know-how will not prevent third parties from independently developing similar information. Publicly available information (such as information in expired patents, published patent applications, and scientific literature) can also be used by third parties to independently develop technology. We cannot provide assurance that this independently developed technology will not be equivalent or superior to our proprietary technology.. We may from time to time engage in litigation to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of our patent rights. In addition, we can seek to enforce our rights in trade secrets, or \"know-how,\" and other proprietary information and technology in the conduct of our business.  However, it is possible that our competitors may infringe upon, misappropriate, violate or challenge the validity or enforceability of our intellectual property, and we may not able to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights in the future.. Risks Related to Severe Weather, Particularly in the U.S. Gulf Coast. We have significant operations located in market areas in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and related near-shore areas which are susceptible to hurricanes and other adverse weather events. In these market areas, we generated approximately 16% of our consolidated revenue in 2017 and had approximately $215 million of inventory and property, plant and equipment as of December 31, 2017. Such adverse weather events can disrupt our operations and result in damage to our properties, as well as negatively impact the activity and financial condition of our customers. Our business may be adversely affected by these and other negative effects of future hurricanes or other adverse weather events in regions in which we operate.. Risks Related to Cybersecurity Breaches or Business System Disruptions. We utilize various management information systems and information technology infrastructure to manage or support a variety of our business operations, and to maintain various records, which may include confidential business or proprietary information as well as information regarding our customers, business partners, employees or other third parties. Failures of or interference with access to these systems, such as communication disruptions, could have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct operations or directly impact consolidated financial reporting. Security breaches pose a risk to confidential data and intellectual property which could result in damages to our competitiveness and reputation. We have policies and procedures in place, including system monitoring and data back-up processes, to prevent or mitigate the effects of these potential disruptions or breaches, however there can be no assurance that existing or emerging threats will not have an adverse impact on our systems or communications networks. These risks could harm our reputation and our relationships with our customers, business partners, employees or other third parties, and may result in claims against us. In addition, these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition.. Risks Related to Fluctuations in the Market Value of our Common Stock. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate due to a number of factors, including the general economy, stock market conditions, general trends in the E&P industry, announcements made by us or our competitors, and variations in our operating results. Investors may not be able to predict the timing or extent of these fluctuations."
