[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below and all of the information contained in this document. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties that the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company's business operations. If any of those risks occurs, the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and the Company's actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. See \"Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements\" for further information.. Risks Related to Our Operations. General trends in the television industry could adversely affect demand for television advertising as consumers migrate to alternative media, including the Internet, for entertainment.. Television viewing among consumers has been negatively impacted by the increasing availability of alternative media, including the Internet. As a result, in recent years demand for television advertising has been declining and demand for advertising in alternative media has been increasing, and we expect this trend to continue.. The networks have begun streaming some of their programming on the Internet and other distribution platforms simultaneously with, or in close proximity to, network programming broadcast on local television stations, including those we own or provide services to. These and other practices by the networks dilute the exclusivity and value of network programming originally broadcast by the local stations and may adversely affect the business, financial condition and results of operations of our stations. Also refer to \"Risks Related to Our Industry  -  Intense competition in the television industry and alternative forms of media could limit our growth and profitability.\". The Company's substantial debt could limit its ability to grow and compete.. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had $4.4 billion of debt, which represented 73.5% of the total combined capitalization.. On January 16, 2018, we borrowed $44.0 million from our revolving credit facility to partially fund our acquisition of LKQD.. On February 1, 2018, we prepaid $20.0 million of the outstanding principal balance under our Term Loan B, funded by cash on hand.. On February 16, 2018, we repaid $20.0 million of the outstanding principal balance under our revolving credit facility, funded by cash on hand.. The Company's high level of debt could have important consequences to our business. For example, it could:. •  limit the Company's ability to borrow additional funds or obtain additional financing in the future;. •  limit the Company's ability to pursue acquisition opportunities;. •  expose the Company to greater interest rate risk since the interest rate on borrowings under the senior secured credit facilities is variable;. •  limit the Company's flexibility to plan for and react to changes in our business and our industry; and. •  impair our ability to withstand a general downturn in our business and place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged.. See Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Contractual Obligations\" for disclosure of the approximate aggregate amount of principal indebtedness scheduled to mature.. The Company could also incur additional debt in the future. The terms of the Company's senior secured credit facilities, as well as the indentures governing our 6.125% senior unsecured notes (\"6.125% Notes\"), the 5.625% Notes and the 5.875% Notes, limit, but do not prohibit the Company from incurring substantial amounts of additional debt. To the extent the Company incurs additional debt, we would become even more susceptible to the leverage-related risks described above.. 23. The agreements governing the Company's debt contain various covenants that limit management's discretion in the operation of our business.. The terms of the Company's senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our 6.125% Notes, 5.625% Notes and 5.875% Notes contain various restrictive covenants customary for arrangements of these types that restrict our ability to, among other things:. •  incur additional debt and issue preferred stock;. •  pay dividends and make other distributions;. •  make investments and other restricted payments;. •  make acquisitions;. •  merge, consolidate or transfer all or substantially all of our assets;. •  enter into sale and leaseback transactions;. •  create liens;. •  sell assets or stock of our subsidiaries; and. •  enter into transactions with affiliates.. In addition, the Company's senior secured credit facilities require us to maintain or meet certain financial ratios, including maximum total and first-lien leverage ratios and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. Future financing agreements may contain similar, or even more restrictive, provisions and covenants. Because of these restrictions and covenants, management's ability to operate our business at its discretion is limited, and we may be unable to compete effectively, pursue acquisitions or take advantage of new business opportunities, any of which could harm our business.. If we fail to comply with the restrictions in present or future financing agreements, a default may occur. A default could allow creditors to accelerate the related debt as well as any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. A default could also allow creditors to foreclose on any collateral securing such debt.. The credit agreement governing our obligations under our senior secured credit facility contains covenants that require us to comply with certain financial ratios, including maximum total and first-lien ratios and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. The covenants, which are calculated on a quarterly basis, include the combined results of the Company. The credit agreements governing Mission's, Marshall's and Shield's obligations under their senior secured credit facilities do not contain financial covenant ratio requirements; however, they include events of default if we do not comply with all covenants contained in the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facility.. The Company may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet its debt service requirements.. The Company's ability to service its debt depends on its ability to generate the necessary cash flow. Generation of the necessary cash flow is partially subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond the Company's control. The Company cannot assure you that its business will generate cash flow from operations, that future borrowings will be available to the Company under its current or any replacement credit facilities, or that it will be able to complete any necessary financings, in amounts sufficient to enable the Company to fund its operations or pay its debts and other obligations, or to fund its liquidity needs. If the Company is not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service its debt obligations, it may need to refinance or restructure its debt, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. Additional financing may not be available in sufficient amounts, at times or on terms acceptable to the Company, or at all. If the Company is unable to meet its debt service obligations, its lenders may determine to stop making loans to the Company, and/or the Company's lenders or other holders of its debt could accelerate and declare due all outstanding obligations due under the respective agreements, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company.. 24. The owners of the VIEs may make decisions regarding the operation of their respective stations that could reduce the amount of cash we receive under our local service agreements.. As of December 31, 2017, the VIEs are each 100% owned by independent third parties. These entities owned and operated 36 full power television stations. We have entered into local service agreements with these VIEs, pursuant to which we provide services to their stations. In return for the services we provide, we receive substantially all of the VIEs' available cash, after satisfaction of their operating costs and any debt obligations.. On January 17, 2017, Mission, Marshall and Shield each entered into a senior secured credit agreement with Bank of America, N.A., as the administrative agent. These credit agreements refinanced the entities' previous senior secured credit facilities. On July 19, 2017, each credit agreement was amended to lower the applicable rate portion of the interest rates by 50 basis points and to slightly extend certain maturity dates.. As of December 31, 2017, Mission's senior secured credit facility consists of a Term Loan B with an outstanding balance of $225.7 million due January 17, 2024 and a $3.0 million revolving credit facility, of which nothing was drawn and outstanding. Marshall's senior secured credit facility consists of a Term Loan A with an outstanding balance of $49.6 million due June 28, 2018 and a revolving credit facility with an outstanding balance of $3.0 million, also due on June 28, 2018. Shield's senior secured credit facility consists of a Term Loan A with an outstanding balance of $23.8 million due July 19, 2022.. We guarantee full payment of all of the obligations incurred under the Mission, Marshall and Shield senior secured credit facilities in the event of their default. Mission, White Knight, Shield, Tamer, Vaughn, WNAC, LLC and 54 Broadcasting have granted purchase options that permit Nexstar to acquire the assets and assume the liabilities of each of those VIEs' stations, subject to FCC consent. These purchase options are freely exercisable or assignable by Nexstar without consent or approval by the VIEs.. We do not own the VIEs or any of their respective television stations. However, we are deemed under U.S. GAAP to have controlling financial interests in the consolidated VIEs because of (1) the local service agreements Nexstar has with the VIEs' stations, (2) Nexstar's guarantee of the obligations incurred under the Mission, Marshall and Shield senior secured credit facilities, (3) Nexstar having power over significant activities affecting the VIEs' economic performance, including budgeting for advertising revenue, advertising sales and, for Mission, White Knight, Shield, Vaughan, WNAC, LLC and 54 Broadcasting, hiring and firing of sales force personnel and (4) purchase options granted by Mission, White Knight, Shield, Tamer, Vaughn, WNAC, LLC, and 54 Broadcasting which permit Nexstar to acquire the assets and assume the liabilities of each of those VIEs' stations, subject to FCC consent.. In compliance with FCC regulations, the VIEs maintain complete responsibility for and control over programming, finances and personnel for their respective stations. As a result, the VIEs' boards of directors and officers can make decisions with which we disagree and which could reduce the cash flow generated by these stations and, as a consequence, the amounts we receive under our local service agreements with the VIEs. For instance, the VIEs may decide to obtain and broadcast programming which, in our opinion, would prove unpopular and/or would generate less advertising revenue.. The Company's pension and postretirement benefit plans are currently underfunded. A declining stock market and lower interest rates could affect the value of its retirement plan assets and increase the Company's postretirement obligations.. As a result of our merger with Media General, we assumed Media General's qualified defined benefit retirement plans that cover substantially all legacy Media General employees hired before January 1, 2007. The Company also assumed the defined benefit plans of LIN TV at the time of the merger. As of December 31, 2017, these qualified retirement plans were underfunded by approximately $22.8 million. The qualified retirement plans had $381.5 million in total net assets available to pay benefits to participants enrolled in the Plans as of December 31, 2017. The Company made no Company contributions in 2017 to the legacy Media General plan.. The Company also assumed Media General's non-contributory unfunded supplemental executive retirement and ERISA excess plans, both of which were amended and restated effective January 1, 2008, and both of which supplement the coverage available to certain legacy Media General and LIN TV executives. As of December 31, 2017, the total liability was $56.6 million. There is also an unfunded plan that provides certain health and life insurance benefits to retired legacy Media General employees who were hired prior to 1992 and a retirement medical savings account established as of January 1, 2007. Although the Company has frozen participation and benefits under all plans, two significant elements in determining the Company's pension expense are the expected return on plan assets and the discount rate used in projecting obligations. Large declines in the stock market and lower discount rates increase the Company's expense and may necessitate higher cash contributions to the qualified retirement plans.. 25. Uncertainties in the interpretation and application of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"Tax Act\") was enacted on December 22, 2017, and significantly affected U.S. tax law by changing how the U.S. imposes income tax. The U.S. Department of Treasury has broad authority to issue regulations and interpretative guidance that may significantly impact how we will apply the law and impact our results of operations in the period issued.. The Tax Act requires complex computations not previously provided in U.S. tax law. As such, the application of accounting guidance for such items is currently uncertain. Further, compliance with the Tax Act and the accounting for such provisions require accumulation of information not previously required or regularly produced. As a result, we have provided a provisional estimate on the effect of the Tax Act in our financial statements. As additional regulatory guidance is issued by the applicable taxing authorities, as accounting treatment is clarified, as we perform additional analysis on the application of the law, and as we refine estimates in calculating the effect, our final analysis, which will be recorded in the period completed, may be different from our current provisional amounts, which could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate.. The recording of deferred tax asset valuation allowances in the future or the impact of tax law changes on such deferred tax assets could affect our operating results.. The Company currently has significant net deferred tax assets resulting from tax credit carryforwards, net operating losses and other deductible temporary differences that are available to reduce taxable income in future periods. Based on our assessment of the Company's deferred tax assets, we determined that as of December 31, 2017, based on projected future income, approximately $108.2 million of the Company's deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, will more likely than not be realized in the future. Should we determine in the future that these assets will not be realized, the Company will be required to record a valuation allowance in connection with these deferred tax assets and the Company's operating results would be adversely affected in the period such determination is made. In addition, tax law changes could negatively impact the Company's deferred tax assets.. The Company's ability to use net operating loss carry-forwards (\"NOLs\") to reduce future tax payments may be limited if taxable income does not reach sufficient levels or there is a change in ownership of Nexstar, Mission, Marshall, White Knight or 54 Broadcasting.. At December 31, 2017, the Company had NOLs of approximately $145.9 million for U.S. federal tax purposes and $579.4 million for state tax purposes. These NOLs expire at varying dates through 2037. To the extent available, we intend to use these NOLs to reduce the corporate income tax liability associated with our operations. Section 382 (\"Section 382\") of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"), generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of NOLs that may be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in stock ownership. In general, an ownership change, as defined by Section 382, results from a transaction or series of transactions over a three-year period resulting in an ownership change of more than 50 percentage points of the outstanding stock of a company by certain stockholders or public groups, which are generally outside of our control.. The ability to use NOLs is also dependent upon the Company's ability to generate taxable income. The NOLs could expire before the Company generates sufficient taxable income to use them. To the extent the Company's use of NOLs is significantly limited, the Company's income could be subject to corporate income tax earlier than it would if it were able to use NOLs, which could have a negative effect on the Company's financial results and operations. Changes in ownership are largely beyond the Company's control and the Company can give no assurance that it will continue to have realizable NOLs.. 26. The revenue generated by stations we operate or provide services to could decline substantially if they fail to maintain or renew their network affiliation agreements on favorable terms, or at all.. Due to the quality of the programming provided by the networks, stations that are affiliated with a network generally have higher ratings than unaffiliated independent stations in the same market. As a result, it is important for stations to maintain their network affiliations. Most of the stations that we operate or provide services to have network affiliation agreements. As of December 31, 2017, 31 full power television stations have primary affiliation agreements with ABC, 33 with NBC, 31 with FOX, 46 with CBS, 17 with The CW and 11 with MNTV. Each of ABC, NBC and CBS generally provides affiliated stations with up to 22 hours of prime-time programming per week, while each of FOX, MNTV and The CW provides affiliated stations with up to 15 hours of prime-time programming per week. In return, affiliated stations broadcast the respective network's commercials during the network programming.. All of the network affiliation agreements of the stations that we own, operate, program or provide sales and other services to are scheduled to expire at various times through December 2020. In order to renew certain of our affiliation agreements we may be required to make cash payments to the network and to accept other material modifications of existing affiliation agreements. If any of our stations cease to maintain affiliation agreements with their networks for any reason, we would need to find alternative sources of programming, which may be less attractive to our audiences and more expensive to obtain. In addition, a loss of a specific network affiliation for a station may affect our retransmission consent payments resulting in us receiving less retransmission consent fees. Further, some of our network affiliation agreements are subject to earlier termination by the networks under specified circumstances.. For more information regarding these network affiliation agreements, see Item 1, \"Business - Network Affiliations.\". The loss of or material reduction in retransmission consent revenues or further change in the current retransmission consent regulations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A significant portion of Nexstar's revenue comes from its retransmission consent agreements with MPVDs, mainly cable and satellite television providers.  These agreements permit the MVPDs to retransmit our stations' signals to their subscribers in exchange for the payment of compensation to us from the system operators as consideration. If we are unable to renegotiate these agreements on favorable terms, or at all, the failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Though we are typically able to renegotiate our retransmission consent agreements with MVPDs on favorable terms, the payments due us under these agreements are customarily based on a price per subscriber of the applicable MVPD.  In recent years the subscribership of MVPDs has declined, as the growth of direct Internet streaming of video programming to televisions and mobile devices has incentivized consumers to \"cut the cord\" and discontinue their cable or satellite service subscriptions.  Decreasing MVPD subscribership leads to less revenue under our retransmission agreements, which ultimately could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Also refer to \"Risks Related to Our Industry  -  Intense competition in the television industry and alternative forms of media could limit our growth and profitability.\". Moreover, the national television broadcast networks have taken the position that they, as the owners or licensees of certain of the programming we broadcast and provide for retransmission, are entitled to a portion of the compensation we receive from MVPDs under our retransmission consent agreements and are requiring their network affiliation agreements with us to provide for such payments. All of our affiliation agreements with the broadcast networks also include terms that limit our ability to grant retransmission consent rights both to traditional MVPDs and to so-called \"virtual MVPDs,\" services that provide multiple video streaming channels to consumers.  The need to pay a portion of our retransmission consent revenue to our networks, and network limitations on our ability to enter into retransmission consent agreements, could materially reduce this revenue source to the Company and could have an adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, MVPDs are actively seeking to change the regulations under which retransmission consent is negotiated before both the U.S. Congress and the FCC in order to increase their bargaining leverage with television stations. On March 3, 2011, the FCC initiated a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to reexamine its rules (1) governing the requirements for good faith negotiations between MVPDs and broadcasters, including implementing a prohibition on one station negotiating retransmission consent terms for another station under a local service agreement; (2) for providing advance notice to consumers in the event of dispute; and (3) to extend certain cable-only obligations to all MVPDs. The FCC also asked for comment on eliminating the network non-duplication and syndicated exclusivity protection rules, which may permit MVPDs to import out-of-market television stations in certain circumstances.. 27. On March 31, 2014, the FCC amended its rules governing \"good faith\" retransmission consent negotiations to provide that it is a per se violation of the statutory duty to negotiate in good faith for a television broadcast station that is ranked among the top-four stations in a market (as measured by audience share) to negotiate retransmission consent jointly with another top-four station in the same market if the stations are not commonly owned. On December 5, 2014, the U.S. Congress extended the joint negotiation prohibition to all non-commonly owned television stations in a market.  Under this rule, same-market stations may not (1) delegate authority to negotiate or approve a retransmission consent agreement to another non-commonly owned station located in the same DMA or to a third-party that negotiates on behalf of another non-commonly owned television station in the same DMA; or (2) if not commonly owned, facilitate or agree to facilitate coordinated negotiation of retransmission consent terms between themselves, including through the sharing of information. Accordingly, the VIEs with which we have sharing agreements must separately negotiate their respective retransmission consent agreements with MVPDs. We cannot predict what effect, if any, this requirement for separate negotiations will have on the Company's revenues and expenses.. Concurrently with its adoption of the prohibition on certain joint retransmission consent negotiations, the FCC also adopted a further notice of proposed rulemaking which seeks additional comment on the elimination or modification of the network non-duplication and syndicated exclusivity rules. The FCC's prohibition on certain joint retransmission consent negotiations and its possible elimination or modification of the network non-duplication and syndicated exclusivity protection rules may affect the Company's ability to sustain its current level of retransmission consent revenues or grow such revenues in the future and could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company cannot predict the resolution of the FCC's network non-duplication and syndicated exclusivity proposals, or the impact of these proposals or the FCC's prohibition on certain joint negotiations, on its business.. In addition, in the STELA Reauthorization Act of 2014, which was adopted and signed into law in December 2014, the U.S. Congress directed the FCC to commence a rulemaking to \"review its totality of the circumstances test for good faith [retransmission consent] negotiations.\"  The FCC commenced this proceeding in September 2015, and comments and reply comments were submitted in 2015 and 2016.  We cannot predict the proceeding's outcome or its impact on our business. In July 2016 the then-Chairman of the FCC announced that the agency would not adopt additional rules in this proceeding; however, the proceeding remains open.. Certain online video distributors and other OTTDs have begun streaming broadcast programming over the Internet.  In June 2014, the U.S. Supreme Court held that an OTTD's retransmissions of broadcast television signals without the consent of the broadcast station violate copyright holders' exclusive right to perform their works publicly as provided under the Copyright Act.  In December 2014, the FCC issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking proposing to interpret the term \"MVPD\" to encompass OTTDs that make available for purchase multiple streams of video programming distributed at a prescheduled time and seeking comment on the effects of applying MVPD rules to such OTTDs.  Comments and reply comments were filed in 2015. Although the FCC has not classified OTTDs as MVPDs to date, several OTTDs have signed agreements for retransmission of local stations within their markets, and others are actively seeking to negotiate such agreements. If the FCC ultimately determines that an OTTD is not an MVPD or declines to apply certain rules governing MVPDs to OTTDs, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. The FCC could decide not to grant renewal of the FCC license of any of the stations we operate or provide services to which would require that station to cease operations.. Television broadcast licenses are granted for a maximum term of eight years and are subject to renewal upon application to the FCC. The FCC is required to grant an application for license renewal if, during the preceding term, the station served the public interest, the licensee did not commit any serious violations of the Communications Act or the FCC's rules, and the licensee committed no other violations of the Communications Act or the FCC's rules which, taken together, would constitute a pattern of abuse. A majority of renewal applications are routinely granted under this standard. If a licensee fails to meet this standard the FCC may still grant renewal on terms and conditions that it deems appropriate, including a monetary forfeiture or renewal for a term less than the normal eight-year period. However, in an extreme case, the FCC may deny a station's license renewal application, resulting in termination of the station's authority to broadcast. Under the Communications Act, the term of a broadcast license is automatically extended during the pendency of the FCC's processing of a timely renewal application.  The Company expects the FCC to grant future renewal applications for its stations in due course but cannot provide any assurances that the FCC will do so.. The loss of the services of our chief executive officer could disrupt management of our business and impair the execution of our business strategies.. We believe that our success depends upon our ability to retain the services of Perry A. Sook, our founder and President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Sook has been instrumental in determining our strategic direction and focus. The loss of Mr. Sook's services could adversely affect our ability to manage effectively our overall operations and successfully execute current or future business strategies.. 28. The Company's growth may be limited if it is unable to implement its acquisition strategy.. The Company has achieved much of its growth through acquisitions. The Company intends to continue its growth by selectively pursuing acquisitions of television stations. The television broadcast industry is undergoing consolidation, which may reduce the number of acquisition targets and increase the purchase price of future acquisitions. Some of the Company's competitors may have greater financial or management resources with which to pursue acquisition targets. Therefore, even if the Company is successful in identifying attractive acquisition targets, it may face considerable competition and its acquisition strategy may not be successful.. FCC rules and policies may also make it more difficult for the Company to acquire additional television stations. Television station acquisitions are subject to the approval of the FCC and, potentially, other regulatory authorities. FCC rules limit the number of television stations a company may own and define the types of local service agreements that \"count\" as ownership by the party providing the services. Those rules are subject to change. The need for FCC and other regulatory approvals could restrict the Company's ability to consummate future transactions if, for example, the FCC or other government agencies believe that a proposed transaction would result in excessive concentration or other public interest detriment in a market, even if the proposed combination may otherwise comply with FCC ownership limitations. Additionally, the acquisition of Media General has significantly increased the Company's national audience reach to a level that approaches national television ownership limits imposed by the Communications Act and FCC rules.  This may restrict future television station acquisitions by the Company and may require the Company to divest current stations in connection with any acquisition in order to comply with national television ownership limits.. Growing the Company's business through acquisitions involves risks and if it is unable to manage effectively its growth, its operating results will suffer.. During the three years ended December 31, 2017, the Company acquired a total of 93 full power television stations, net of divestitures, of which 71 full power stations in 42 markets were acquired through our merger with Media General. Following these transactions, we own, operate, program or provide sales and other services to 170 full power television stations in 100 markets. To manage effectively its growth and address the increased reporting requirements and administrative demands that will result from future acquisitions, the Company will need, among other things, to continue to develop its financial and management controls and management information systems. The Company will also need to continue to identify, attract and retain highly skilled finance and management personnel. Failure to do any of these tasks in an efficient and timely manner could seriously harm its business.. There are other risks associated with growing our business through acquisitions. For example, with any past or future acquisition, there is the possibility that:. •  we may not be able to successfully reduce costs, increase advertising revenue or audience share or realize anticipated synergies and economies of scale with respect to any acquired station;. •  we may not be able to generate adequate returns on our acquisitions or investments;. •  we may encounter and fail to address risks or other problems associated with or arising from our reliance on the representations and warranties and related indemnities, if any, provided to us by the sellers of acquired companies;. •  an acquisition may increase our leverage and debt service requirements or may result in our assuming unexpected liabilities;. •  our management may be reassigned from overseeing existing operations by the need to integrate the acquired business;. •  we may experience difficulties integrating operations and systems, as well as company policies and cultures, including the operations, systems, policies and cultures of Media General;. •  we may be unable to retain and grow relationships with the acquired company's key customers;. •  we may fail to retain and assimilate employees of the acquired business; and. •  problems may arise in entering new markets in which we have little or no experience.. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, particularly during the period immediately following any acquisition.. 29. FCC actions may restrict our ability to create duopolies under local service agreements or common ownership, which may harm our existing operations and impair our acquisition strategy.. In a number of our markets, we have created duopolies by entering into what we refer to as local service agreements. While these agreements take varying forms, a typical local service agreement is an agreement between two separately owned television stations serving the same market, whereby the owner of one station provides operational assistance to the other station, subject to ultimate editorial and other controls being exercised by the latter station's owner. By operating or entering into local service agreements with same-market stations, we (and the other station) achieve significant operational efficiencies. We also broaden our audience reach and enhance our ability to capture more advertising spending in a given market.  Additionally, we achieve significant operational efficiencies by owning multiple stations in a market where FCC rules allow us to do so.. The FCC is required to review its media ownership rules every four years and eliminate those rules it finds no longer serve the \"public interest, convenience and necessity.\" In August 2016, the FCC adopted the 2016 Ownership Order concluding the agency's 2010 and 2014 quadrennial reviews.  The 2016 Ownership Order (1) retained the then-existing local television ownership rule and radio/television cross-ownership rule with minor technical modifications, (2) extended the ban on common ownership of two top-four television stations in a market to network affiliation swaps, (3) retained the then-existing ban on newspaper/broadcast cross-ownership in local markets while considering waivers and providing an exception for failed or failing entities, (4) retained the dual network rule, (5) made JSA relationships attributable interests, and (6) defined a category of sharing agreements designated as SSAs between stations and required public disclosure of those SSAs (while not considering them attributable).. Nexstar and other parties filed petitions seeking reconsideration of various aspects of the 2016 Ownership Order.  On November 16, 2017, the FCC adopted its Reconsideration Order addressing the petitions for reconsideration.  The Reconsideration Order (1) eliminated the rules prohibiting newspaper/broadcast cross-ownership and limiting television/radio cross-ownership, (2) eliminated the requirement that eight or more independently-owned television stations remain in a market for common ownership of two television stations in the market to be permissible, (3) retained the general prohibition on common ownership of two \"top four\" stations in a local market but provided for case-by-case review, (4) eliminated the television JSA attribution rule, and (5) retained the SSA definition and disclosure requirement for television stations.  These rule modifications took effect on February 7, 2018, when the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit denied a mandamus petition which had sought to stay their effectiveness.  The Reconsideration Order remains subject to an appeal before the Third Circuit.. The 2016 Ownership Order reinstated a rule that attributed another in-market station toward the local television ownership limits when one station owner sells more than 15% of the second station's weekly advertising inventory under a joint sales agreement (this rule had been previously adopted but was vacated by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit).  Parties to JSAs entered into prior to March 31, 2014 were permitted to continue to operate under these JSAs until September 30, 2025.  However, in its November 2017 Reconsideration Order, the FCC eliminated the JSA attribution rule in its entirety.  This elimination took effect on February 7, 2018, although the Reconsideration Order remains subject to a federal court appeal.. On February 3, 2017, the FCC terminated in full its guidance (issued on March 12, 2014) requiring careful scrutiny of broadcast television applications which propose sharing arrangements and contingent interests.  Accordingly, the FCC will no longer evaluate whether options, loan guarantees and similar otherwise non-attributable interests create undue financial influence in transactions which also include sharing arrangements between television stations.. We cannot predict what additional rules the FCC will adopt or when they will be adopted. In addition, uncertainty about media ownership regulations and adverse economic conditions have dampened the acquisition market from time to time, and changes in the regulatory approval process may make materially more expensive, or may materially delay, the Company's ability to close upon currently pending acquisitions or consummate further acquisitions in the future.. The FCC may decide to terminate \"grandfathered\" time brokerage agreements.. The FCC attributes TBAs or LMAs to the programmer under its ownership limits if the programmer provides more than 15% of a station's weekly broadcast programming. However, TBAs entered into prior to November 5, 1996 are exempt from attribution for now.. The FCC may review these \"grandfathered\" TBAs or LMAs in the future. During this review, the FCC may determine to terminate the \"grandfathered\" period and make all TBAs or LMAs fully attributable to the programmer. If the FCC does so, we will be required to terminate or modify our grandfathered TBAs or LMAs unless the FCC's rules allow ownership of two stations in the applicable markets. As of December 31, 2017, we provide services under TBAs or LMAs to five television stations owned by third parties.. 30. We are subject to foreign ownership limitations which limits foreign investments in us.. The Communications Act limits the extent of non-U.S. ownership of companies that own U.S. broadcast stations. Under this restriction, the holder of a U.S. broadcast license may have no more than 20% non-U.S. ownership (by vote and by equity). The Communications Act prohibits more than 25% indirect foreign ownership or control of a licensee through a parent company if the FCC determines the public interest will be served by enforcement of such restriction. The FCC has interpreted this provision to require an affirmative public interest showing before indirect foreign ownership of a broadcast licensee may exceed 25%. Therefore, certain investors may be prevented from investing in us if our foreign ownership is at or near the FCC limits.. The FCC's multiple ownership rules may limit our ability to acquire television stations in particular markets, restricting our ability to execute our acquisition strategy.. The number of television stations we may acquire in any local market or nationwide is limited by FCC rules and may vary depending upon whether the interests in other television stations or other media properties of persons affiliated with us are attributable under FCC rules. The broadcast and certain other media interests of our officers, directors and most stockholders with 5% or greater voting power are attributable under the FCC's rules, which may limit us from acquiring or owning television stations in particular markets while those officers, directors or stockholders are associated with us. In addition, the holder of otherwise non-attributable equity and/or debt in a licensee in excess of 33% of the total debt and equity of the licensee will be attributable where the holder is either a major program supplier to that licensee or the holder has an attributable interest in another broadcast station in the same market that is subject to the FCC's media ownership rules.. One of Nexstar's directors also currently serve on the board of directors of Urban One, Inc. (formerly Radio One, Inc.), which owns and operates approximately 55 radio stations in 15 markets. The FCC considers the radio stations owned by Urban One, Inc. (formerly Radio One, Inc.) as attributable to Nexstar, due to this common director relationship.. The Company has a material amount of goodwill and intangible assets, and therefore the Company could suffer additional losses due to future asset impairment charges.. As of December 31, 2017, $5.5 billion, or 73.4%, of the Company's combined total assets consisted of goodwill and intangible assets, including FCC licenses and network affiliation agreements. The Company recorded an impairment charge of $20.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2017 attributable to its digital businesses. Of this amount, $11.5 million relates to goodwill impairment and $8.5 million relates to the impairment of finite-lived intangible assets. The Company tests goodwill and FCC licenses annually, and on an interim date if factors or indicators become apparent that would require an interim test of these assets, in accordance with accounting and disclosure requirements for goodwill and other intangible assets. The Company tests its finite-lived intangible assets whenever circumstances or indicators become apparent that the asset may not be recoverable through expected future cash flows. The methods used to evaluate the impairment of the Company's goodwill and intangible assets would be affected by a significant reduction, or a forecast of such reductions, in operating results or cash flows at the Company's broadcast business or at one or more of the Company's digital businesses. Our broadcast business' operating results and cash flows could be affected by a significant adverse change in the advertising marketplaces in which the Company's television stations operate, the loss of network affiliations or by adverse changes to FCC ownership rules, among others, which may be beyond the Company's control. Our digital business' operating results and cash flows could be affected by intense competition, investment in technologies that are subject to a greater degree of obsolescence, significant reliance on third-party vendors to deliver services, rapid evolving nature and other factors. If the carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets is revised downward due to impairment, such non-cash charge could materially affect the Company's financial position and results of operations.. There can be no assurances concerning continuing dividend payments and any decrease or suspension of the dividend could cause our stock price to decline.. Our common stockholders are only entitled to receive the dividends declared by our board of directors. Our board of directors has declared in 2018 a total cash dividend with respect to the outstanding shares of our Class A common stock of $1.50 per share in equal quarterly installments of $0.375 per share. We expect to continue to pay quarterly cash dividends at the rate set forth in our current dividend policy. However, future cash dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors and can be changed or discontinued at any time. Dividend determinations (including the amount of the cash dividend, the record date and date of payment) will depend upon, among other things, our future operations and earnings, targeted future acquisitions, capital requirements and surplus, general financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant. In addition, the Company's senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our existing notes limit our ability to pay dividends. Given these considerations, our board of directors may increase or decrease the amount of the dividend at any time and may also decide to suspend or discontinue the payment of cash dividends in the future.. 31. Risks Related to Our Industry. Our operating results are dependent on advertising revenue and as a result, we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and other factors beyond our control than businesses not dependent on advertising.. We derive a majority of our revenue from the sale of advertising time on our stations and community portal websites. Our ability to sell advertising time depends on numerous factors that may be beyond our control, including:. •  the health of the economy in the local markets where our stations are located and in the nation as a whole;. •  the popularity of our station and website programming;. •  fluctuations in pricing for local and national advertising;. •  the activities of our competitors, including increased competition from other forms of advertising-based media, particularly newspapers, cable television, Internet and radio;. •  the decreased demand for political advertising in non-election years; and. •  changes in the makeup of the population in the areas where our stations are located.. Because businesses generally reduce their advertising budgets during economic recessions or downturns, the reliance upon advertising revenue makes our operating results susceptible to prevailing economic conditions. In addition, our programming may not attract sufficient targeted viewership, and we may not achieve favorable ratings. Our ratings depend partly upon unpredictable and volatile factors beyond our control, such as viewer preferences, competing programming and the availability of other entertainment activities. A shift in viewer preferences could cause our programming not to gain popularity or to decline in popularity, which could cause our advertising revenue to decline. Further, we and the programming providers upon which we rely may not be able to anticipate, and effectively react to, shifts in viewer tastes and interests in our markets.. Because a high percentage of our operating expense is fixed, a relatively small decrease in advertising revenue could have a significant negative impact on our financial results.. Our business is characterized generally by high fixed costs, primarily for debt service, broadcast rights and personnel. Other than commissions paid to our sales staff and outside sales agencies, our expenses do not vary significantly with an increase or decrease in advertising revenue. As a result, a relatively small change in advertising prices could have a disproportionate effect on our financial results. Accordingly, a minor shortfall in expected revenue could have a significant negative impact on our financial results.. Preemption of regularly scheduled programming by news coverage may affect our revenue and results of operations.. The Company may experience a loss of advertising revenue and incur additional broadcasting expenses due to preemption of our regularly scheduled programming by network coverage of a major global news event such as a war or terrorist attack or by coverage of local disasters, such as tornados and hurricanes. As a result, advertising may not be aired and the revenue for such advertising may be lost unless the station is able to run the advertising at agreed-upon times in the future. Advertisers may not agree to run such advertising in future time periods, and space may not be available for such advertising. The duration of any preemption of programming cannot be predicted if it occurs. In addition, our stations and the stations we provide services to may incur additional expenses as a result of expanded news coverage of a war or terrorist attack or local disaster. The loss of revenue and increased expenses could negatively affect our results of operations.. If we are unable to respond to changes in technology and evolving industry trends, our television businesses may not be able to compete effectively.. New technologies may adversely affect our television stations. Information delivery and programming alternatives such as cable, direct satellite-to-home services, pay-per-view, video on demand, over-the-top distribution of programming, the Internet, telephone company services, mobile devices, digital video recorders and home video and entertainment systems have fractionalized television viewing audiences and expanded the numbers and types of distribution channels for advertisers to access. Over the past decade, cable television programming services, other emerging video distribution platforms and the Internet have captured an increasing market share, while the aggregate viewership of the major television networks has declined. In addition, the expansion of cable and satellite television, digital delivery and other technological changes has increased, and may continue to increase, the competitive demand for programming. Such increased demand, together with rising production costs, may increase our programming costs or impair our ability to acquire or develop desired programming.. 32. In addition, video compression techniques now in use are expected to permit greater numbers of channels to be carried within existing bandwidth. These compression techniques and other technological developments are applicable to all video delivery systems, including over-the-air broadcasting, and have the potential to provide vastly expanded programming to targeted audiences. Reduction in the cost of creating additional channel capacity could lower entry barriers for new channels and encourage the development of increasingly specialized niche programming, resulting in more audience fractionalization. This ability to reach very narrowly defined audiences may alter the competitive dynamics for advertising expenditures. We are unable to predict the effect that these and other technological changes will have on the television industry or our results of operations.. The FCC can sanction us for programming broadcast on our stations which it finds to be indecent.. The FCC may impose substantial fines, to a maximum of $325,000 per violation, on television broadcasters for the broadcast of indecent material in violation of the Communications Act and its rules. Because the Company's programming is in large part comprised of programming provided by the networks with which the stations are affiliated, the Company does not have full control over what is broadcast on its stations and may be subject to the imposition of fines if the FCC finds such programming to be indecent.. In June 2012, the U.S. Supreme Court decided a challenge to the FCC's indecency enforcement without resolving the constitutionality of such enforcement, and the FCC thereafter requested public comment on the appropriate substance and scope of its indecency enforcement policy. The FCC has issued very few further decisions or rules in this area, and the courts may in the future have further occasion to review the FCC's current policy or any modifications thereto. The outcomes of these proceedings could affect future FCC policies in this area and could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Intense competition in the television industry and alternative forms of media could limit our growth and profitability.. As a television broadcasting company, we face a significant level of competition, both directly and indirectly. We generally compete for our audience against all the other leisure activities in which one could choose to engage rather than watch television. Specifically, stations we own or provide services to compete for audience share, programming and advertising revenue with other television stations in their respective markets and with other advertising media, including newspapers, radio stations, cable television, DBS systems, mobile services, video streaming services and the Internet.. The entertainment and television industries are highly competitive and are undergoing a period of consolidation. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, marketing, programming and broadcasting resources than we do. The markets in which we operate are also in a constant state of change arising from, among other things, technological improvements and economic and regulatory developments. Technological innovation and the resulting proliferation of television entertainment, such as cable television, wireless cable, satellite-to-home distribution services, pay-per-view, home video and entertainment systems and Internet and mobile distribution of video programming have fractionalized television viewing audiences and have subjected free over-the-air television broadcast stations to increased competition. We may not be able to compete effectively or adjust our business plans to meet changing market conditions.. Technologies used in the entertainment industry continues to evolve rapidly, leading to alternative methods for the delivery and storage of digital content. These technological advancements have driven changes in consumer behavior and have empowered consumers to seek more control over when, where and how they consume news and entertainment, including through the so-called \"cutting the cord\" and other consumption strategies. The networks have also begun streaming some of their programming on the Internet and other distribution platforms simultaneously with, or in close proximity to, network programming broadcast on local television stations, including those we own or provide services to. These innovations and other practices by the networks dilute the exclusivity and value of network programming originally broadcast by the local stations and may adversely affect the business, financial condition and results of operations of our stations. We are unable to predict what forms of competition will develop in the future, the extent of the competition or its possible effects on our business.. The FCC could implement regulations or the U.S. Congress could adopt legislation that might have a significant impact on the operations of the stations we own and the stations we provide services to or the television broadcasting industry as a whole.. The FCC has open proceedings to determine whether to standardize TV stations' reporting of programming responsive to local needs and interests; whether to modify its network non-duplication and syndicated exclusivity rules; whether to modify its standards for \"good faith\" retransmission consent negotiations; and whether to broaden the definition of \"MVPD\" to include \"over-the-top\" video programming distributors.  Additionally, FCC proceedings to determine whether to modify or eliminate certain of its broadcast ownership rules are the subject of pending court appeals.. The FCC also has sought comment on whether there are alternatives to the use of DMAs to define local markets such that certain viewers whose current DMAs straddle multiple states would be provided with more in-state broadcast programming. If the FCC determines to modify the use of existing DMAs to determine a station's local market, such change might materially alter current station operations and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 33. The FCC also may decide to initiate other new rule-making proceedings on its own or in response to requests from outside parties, any of which might have such an impact. The U.S. Congress may also act to amend the Communications Act in a manner that could impact our stations and the stations we provide services to or the television broadcast industry in general.. 34. The FCC is reallocating a portion of the spectrum available for use by television broadcasters to wireless broadband use, which could substantially impact our future operations and may reduce viewer access to our programming.. The FCC is in the process of repurposing a portion of the broadcast television spectrum for wireless broadband use.  Pursuant to federal legislation enacted in 2012, the FCC has conducted an incentive auction for the purpose of making additional spectrum available to meet future wireless broadband needs. Under the auction statute and rules, certain television broadcasters accepted bids from the FCC to voluntarily relinquish all or part of their spectrum in exchange for consideration, and certain wireless broadband providers and other entities submitted successful bids to acquire the relinquished television spectrum.  Over the next several years, television stations that are not relinquishing their spectrum will be \"repacked\" into the frequency band still remaining for television broadcast use.. The incentive auction commenced on March 29, 2016 and officially concluded on April 13, 2017.  Ten of Nexstar's stations and one station owned by Vaughan accepted bids to relinquish their spectrum. Of these 11 total stations, eight will share a channel with another station, two will move to a VHF channel and one station went off the air in November 2017. The station that went off the air is not expected to have a significant impact on our future financial results because it is located in a remote rural area of the country and the Company has other stations which serve the same area. The Company derecognized the spectrum asset and liability to surrender spectrum associated with this station.  The remaining ten stations are required to cease broadcasting on their current channels (and, if applicable, implement channel sharing arrangements) on various dates through July 22, 2018, with the exception of the stations moving to VHF channels, which must vacate their current channels by September 2019 and May 2020, respectively.. The majority of the Company's television stations did not accept bids to relinquish their television channels.  Of those stations, 61 full power stations owned by Nexstar and 17 full power stations owned by VIEs have been assigned to new channels in the reduced post-auction television band.  These \"repacked\" stations are required to construct and license the necessary technical modifications to operate on their new assigned channels and will need to cease operating on their existing channels, by deadlines which the FCC has established and which are no later than July 13, 2020. Congress has allocated up to an industry-wide total of $1.75 billion to reimburse television broadcasters and MVPDs for costs reasonably incurred due to the repack.  This fund is not available to reimburse repacking costs for stations which are surrendering their spectrum and entering into channel sharing relationships.  Broadcasters and MVPDs have submitted estimates to the FCC of their reimbursable costs. As of October 17, 2017, these costs exceeded $1.86 billion (over $100 million more than the amount authorized by Congress), and the FCC has indicated that it expects those costs to rise. Our current estimate of repack costs is $230.8 million. We cannot determine if the FCC will be able to fully reimburse our repacking costs as this is dependent on certain factors, including our ability to incur repacking costs that are equal to or less than the FCC's allocation of funds to us and whether the FCC will have available funds to reimburse us for additional repacking costs that we previously may not have anticipated. Whether the FCC will have available funds for additional reimbursements will also depend on the repacking costs that will be incurred by other broadcasters and MVPDs that are also seeking reimbursements.. The reallocation of television spectrum to broadband use may be to the detriment of our investment in digital facilities, could require substantial additional investment to continue our current operations, and may require viewers to invest in additional equipment or subscription services to continue receiving broadcast television signals. We cannot predict the impact of the incentive auction and subsequent repacking on our business.. We have made investments in digital businesses.. We have invested in various digital media businesses as well as digital offerings for each of our broadcast stations. Due to intense competition, investment in technologies that are subject to a greater degree of obsolescence, historical impairment losses on our digital assets, significant reliance on third-party vendors to deliver services, limited operating history, rapid evolving nature of digital businesses and difficulties in integrating acquisitions into our operations, the actual future operating results could be volatile and negatively impact the year-to-year trends of our operations. 35. Cybersecurity risks could affect the Company's operating effectiveness.. The Company uses computers in substantially all aspects of its business operations. Its revenues are increasingly dependent on digital products. Such use exposes the Company to potential cyber incidents resulting from deliberate attacks or unintentional events. It is not uncommon for a company such as ours to be subjected to continuous attempted cyber-attacks or other malicious efforts to cause a cyber incident. These incidents can include, but are not limited to, gaining unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data or causing operational disruption. The results of these incidents could include, but are not limited to, business interruption, disclosure of nonpublic information, decreased advertising revenues, misstated financial data, liability for stolen assets or information, increased cybersecurity protection costs, litigation and reputational damage adversely affecting customer or investor confidence. A Cybersecurity Committee helps mitigate cybersecurity risks.  The role of the committee is to oversee cyber risk assessments, monitor applicable key risk indicators, review cybersecurity training procedures, establish cybersecurity policies and procedures, and to invest in and implement enhancements to the Company's cybersecurity infrastructure. Investments over the past year included enhancements to monitoring systems, firewalls, and intrusion detection systems. During the past year, we experienced no cyber-attacks that were unmitigated by our cybersecurity infrastructure.. 36"
