[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as the other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere and the other information contained in this Report and in our other filings with the SEC, including subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business operations. If any of these known or unknown risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, in which case the trading price of our common stock may decline and you may lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Business. We face significant, evolving competition which, if we fail to properly address, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and price of our stock. The markets for healthcare information systems are intensely competitive, and we face significant competition from a number of different sources. Several of our competitors have substantially greater name recognition and financial, technical, product development and marketing resources than we do. There has been significant merger and acquisition activity among a number of our competitors in recent years. Some of our larger competitors, who have greater scale than we do, have and may continue to become more active in our markets both through internal development and acquisitions. Transaction induced pressures, or other related factors may result in price erosion or other negative market dynamics that could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and price of our stock.. We compete in all of our markets with other major healthcare related companies, information management companies, systems integrators and other software developers. Competition in our markets occurs on the basis of several factors, including price, innovation, client service, product quality and reliability, scope of services, industry acceptance, and others. Competitive pressures and other factors, such as new product introductions by us or our competitors, may result in price or market share erosion that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Also, there can be no assurance that our applications will achieve broad market acceptance or will successfully compete with other available software products. If we fail to distinguish our offerings from other options available to healthcare providers, the demand for and market share of our offerings may decrease.. Saturation or consolidation in the healthcare industry could result in the loss of existing clients, a reduction in our potential client base and downward pressure on the prices for our products and services. As the healthcare information systems market evolves, saturation of this market with our products or our competitors' products could limit our revenues and opportunities for growth. There has also been increasing consolidation amongst healthcare industry participants in recent years, creating integrated healthcare delivery systems with greater market power. As provider networks and managed care organizations consolidate, the number of market participants decreases and competition to provide products and services like ours will become more intense. The importance of establishing relationships with key industry participants will become greater and our inability to make initial sales of our systems to, or maintain relationships with, newly formed groups and/or healthcare providers that are replacing or substantially modifying their healthcare information systems could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. These consolidated industry participants may also try to use their increased market power to negotiate price reductions for our products and services. If we were forced to reduce our prices, our business would become less profitable unless we were able to achieve corresponding reductions in our expenses.. Many of our competitors have greater resources than we do. In order to compete successfully, we must keep pace with our competitors in anticipating and responding to the rapid changes involving the industry in which we operate, or our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. The software market generally is characterized by rapid technological change, changing client needs, frequent new product introductions and evolving industry standards. The introduction of products incorporating new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing and marketing new products that respond to technological changes or evolving industry standards. New product development depends upon significant research and development expenditures which depend ultimately upon sales growth. Any material shortfall in revenue or research funding could impair our ability to respond to technological advances or opportunities in the marketplace and to remain competitive. If we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or client requirements, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.. In response to increasing market demand, we are currently developing new generations of targeted software products. There can be no assurance that we will successfully develop these new software products or that these products will operate successfully, or that any such development, even if successful, will be completed concurrently with or prior to introduction of competing products. Any such failure or delay could adversely affect our competitive position or could make our current products obsolete.. 10. Table of Contents. Uncertainty in global economic and political conditions may negatively impact our business, operating results or financial condition. Global economic and political uncertainty have caused in the past, and may cause in the future, unfavorable business conditions such as a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy and extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets. These macroeconomic conditions could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition in a number of ways. Instability can make it difficult for our clients, our vendors, and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and could cause constrained spending on our products and services, delays and a lengthening of our sales cycles and/or difficulty in collection of our accounts receivable. Current or potential clients may be unable to fund software purchases, which could cause them to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products and services or to not pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services. Our clients may cease business operations or conduct business on a greatly reduced basis. Bankruptcies or similar insolvency events affecting our clients may cause us to incur bad debt expense at levels higher than historically anticipated. Further, economic instability could limit our ability to access the capital markets at a time when we would like, or need, to raise capital, which could have an impact on our ability to react to changing business conditions or new opportunities. Finally, our investment portfolio is generally subject to general credit, liquidity, counterparty, market and interest rate risks that may be exacerbated by these global financial conditions. If the banking system or the fixed income, credit or equity markets deteriorate or remain volatile, our investment portfolio may be impacted and the values and liquidity of our investments could be adversely affected as well.. Our relationships with strategic partners may fail to benefit us as expected. We face risk and/or the possibility of claims from activities related to strategic partners, which could be expensive and time-consuming, divert personnel and other resources from our business and result in adverse publicity that could harm our business. We rely on third parties to provide services for our business. For example, we use national clearinghouses in the processing of some insurance claims and we outsource some of our hardware services and the printing and delivery of patient statements for our clients. These third parties could raise their prices and/or be acquired by our competitors, which could potentially create short and long-term disruptions to our business, negatively impacting our revenue, profit and/or stock price. We also have relationships with certain third parties where these third parties serve as sales channels through which we generate a portion of our revenue. Due to these third-party relationships, we could be subject to claims as a result of the activities, products, or services of these third party service providers even though we were not directly involved in the circumstances leading to those claims. Even if these claims do not result in liability to us, defending and investigating these claims could be expensive and time-consuming, divert personnel and other resources from our business and result in adverse publicity that could harm our business. In addition, our strategic partners may compete with us in some or all of the markets in which we operate.. We have acquired companies, and may engage in future acquisitions, which may be expensive, time consuming, subject to inherent risks and from which we may not realize anticipated benefits. Historically, we have acquired numerous businesses, technologies, and products. We may acquire additional businesses, technologies and products if we determine that these additional businesses, technologies and products are likely to serve our strategic goals. Acquisitions have inherent risks, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results or prospects, including, but not limited to the following:. •  failure to achieve projected synergies and performance targets;. •  potentially dilutive issuances of our securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and amortization expenses related to intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition;. •  using cash as acquisition currency may adversely affect interest or investment income, which may in turn adversely affect our earnings and /or earnings per share;. •  unanticipated expenses or difficulty in fully or effectively integrating or retaining the acquired technologies, software products, services, business practices, management teams or personnel, which would prevent us from realizing the intended benefits of the acquisition;. •  failure to maintain uniform standard controls, policies and procedures across acquired businesses;. •  difficulty in predicting and responding to issues related to product transition such as development, distribution and client support;. •  the possible adverse effect of such acquisitions on existing relationships with third party partners and suppliers of technologies and services;. •  the possibility that staff or clients of the acquired company might not accept new ownership and may transition to different technologies or attempt to renegotiate contract terms or relationships, including maintenance or support agreements;. •  the assumption of known and unknown liabilities;. •  the possibility of disputes over post-closing purchase price adjustments such as performance-based earnouts;. 11. Table of Contents. •  the possibility that the due diligence process in any such acquisition may not completely identify material issues associated with product quality, product architecture, product development, intellectual property issues, regulatory risks, compliance risks, key personnel issues or legal and financial contingencies, including any deficiencies in internal controls and procedures and the costs associated with remedying such deficiencies;. •  difficulty in entering geographic and/or business markets in which we have no or limited prior experience;. •  difficulty in integrating acquired operations due to geographical distance and language and cultural differences;. •  diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and. •  the possibility that acquired assets become impaired, or that acquired assets lead us to determine that existing assets become impaired, requiring us to take a charge to earnings which could be significant.. A failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses or technology could, for any of these reasons, have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our failure to manage growth could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have in the past experienced periods of growth which have placed, and may continue to place, a significant strain on our non-cash resources. We have also expanded our overall software development, marketing, sales, client management and training capacity, and may do so in the future. In the event we are unable to identify, hire, train and retain qualified individuals in such capacities within a reasonable timeframe, such failure could have an adverse effect on the operation of our business. In addition, our ability to manage future increases, if any, in the scope of our operations or personnel will depend on significant expansion of our research and development, marketing and sales, management and administrative and financial capabilities. The failure of our management to effectively manage expansion in our business could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may experience reduced revenues and/or be forced to reduce our prices. We may be subject to pricing pressures with respect to our future sales arising from various sources, including amount other things, government action affecting reimbursement levels. Our clients and the other entities with which we have business relationships are affected by changes in statutes, regulations, and limitations on government spending for Medicare, Medicaid, and other programs. Recent government actions and future legislative and administrative changes could limit government spending for Medicare and Medicaid programs, limit payments to healthcare providers, increase emphasis on competition, impose price controls, initiate new and expanded value-based reimbursement programs and create other programs that potentially could have an adverse effect on our business. If we experience significant downward pricing pressure, our revenues may decline along with our ability to absorb overhead costs, which may leave our business less profitable.. Our operations are dependent upon attracting and retaining key personnel. If such personnel were to leave unexpectedly, we may not be able to execute our business plan. Our future performance depends in significant part upon the continued service of our key development and senior management personnel and successful recruitment of new talent. These personnel have specialized knowledge and skills with respect to our business and our industry. Because we have a relatively small number of employees when compared to other leading companies in our industry, our dependence on maintaining our relationships with key employees and successful recruiting is particularly significant.. The industry in which we operate is characterized by a high level of employee mobility and aggressive recruiting of skilled personnel. There can be no assurance that our current employees will continue to work for us. Loss of services of key employees could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, we may need to grant additional equity incentives to key employees and provide other forms of incentive compensation to attract and retain such key personnel. Equity incentives may be dilutive to our per share financial performance. Failure to provide such types of incentive compensation could jeopardize our recruitment and retention capabilities.. The integration of new key executives into our management team may interfere with our operations. In the past several years, we have appointed several new key executives, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Technology Officer, Chief Strategy Officer, General Counsel and Chief Operating Officer, and we may hire additional key management team members. These executives are required to spend a significant amount of time on certain integration and transition efforts in addition to performing their regular duties and responsibilities. If we fail to complete these integrations and transitions in an efficient manner, or if we fail to provide sufficient incentives to motivate and retain our key executives, our business and prospects may suffer.. Our recent strategy shift and the resulting business reorganization plan we are implementing may be disruptive both internally and externally, and we may not fully realize the anticipated benefits. We recently embarked on a new strategic plan, which we call NextGen 2.0, geared toward realigning our business structure and strategy to rapidly emerging changes in the healthcare industry. As NextGen 2.0 continues, we anticipate that it will result in continued evaluation of our organizational structure in order to achieve greater efficiency, as well as investments in new market solutions and changes to our culture that we hope will drive revenue growth and provide increased value to stakeholders and shareholders. There can be no assurance that our current or future strategic realignment efforts will be successful. Our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of our strategy shift is subject to estimates and assumptions, which may vary based on numerous factors and uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. Reorganization programs entail a variety of known and unknown risks that may increase our costs or impair our ability to achieve operational efficiencies, such as distraction to management and employees, loss of. 12. Table of Contents. workforce capabilities, loss of continuity, accounting charges for technology-related write-offs and workforce reduction costs, decreases in employee focus and morale, uncertainty and turbulence among our clients and vendors, higher than anticipated separation expenses, litigation, and the failure to meet financial and operational targets. If we are unable to effectively implement our strategic shift and realign our business to address the rapidly evolving market, we and our shareholders may not realize the anticipated financial, operational, and other benefits from these initiatives.. If we are unable to manage our growth in the new markets we may enter, our business and financial results could suffer. Our future financial results will depend in part on our ability to profitably manage our business in new markets that we may enter. We are engaging in the strategic identification of, and competition for, growth and expansion opportunities in new markets or offerings, including but not limited to the areas of interoperability, patient engagements, data analytics and population health. With several of our recent acquisitions, we have expanded into the market for cloud-based EHR products. It remains uncertain whether the market for cloud-based products will expand to the levels of demand and market acceptance we anticipate, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully scale the acquired companies' products to meet our clients' expectations. In addition, as clients move from fee-for-service to fee-for-value reimbursement strategies in conjunction with the adoption of population health business models, we may not make appropriate and timely changes to our service offerings consistent with shifts in market demands and expectations. In order to successfully execute on our growth initiatives, we will need to, among other things, manage changing business conditions, anticipate and react to changes in the regulatory environment, and develop expertise in areas outside of our business's traditional core competencies. Difficulties in managing future growth in new markets could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be successful in developing or launching our new software products and services, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We invest significant resources in the research and development of new and enhanced software products and services. Over the last few years we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant internal research and development expenses, a portion of which have been and may continue to be recorded as capitalized software costs. We cannot provide assurances that we will be successful in our efforts to plan, develop or sell new software products that meet client expectations, which could result in an impairment of the value of the related capitalized software costs, an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results and a negative impact the future of our business. Additionally, we cannot be assured that we will continue to capitalize software development costs to the same extent as we have done to date, as the result of changes in development methodologies and other factors. To the extent that we capitalize a lower percentage of total software development costs, our earnings could be reduced.. We have substantially development and other operations in India, and we use offshore third-party partners located in India that subject us to regulatory, economic, social and political uncertainties in India and to laws applicable to US companies operating overseas. We are subject to several risks associated with having a portion of our assets and operations located in India. Many US companies have benefited from many policies of the Government of India and the Indian state governments in the states in which we operate, which are designed to promote foreign investment generally and the business process services industry in particular, including significant tax incentives, relaxation of regulatory restrictions, liberalized import and export duties and preferential rules on foreign investment and repatriation. There is no assurance that such policies will continue. Various factors, such as changes in the current Government of India, could trigger significant changes in India's economic liberalization and deregulation policies and disrupt business and economic conditions in India generally and our business in particular. In addition, our financial performance and the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected by general economic conditions and economic and fiscal policy in India, including changes in exchange rates and controls, interest rates and taxation policies, as well as social stability and political, economic or diplomatic developments affecting India in the future. In particular, India has experienced significant economic growth over the last several years, but faces major challenges in sustaining that growth in the years ahead. These challenges include the need for substantial infrastructure development and improving access to healthcare and education. Our ability to recruit, train and retain qualified employees, develop and operate our captive facility could be adversely affected if India does not successfully meet these challenges. In addition, US governing authorities may pressure us to perform work domestically rather than using offshore resources. Furthermore, local laws and customs in India may differ from those in the US. For example, it may be a local custom for businesses to engage in practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or US laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\"). The FCPA generally prohibits US companies from giving or offering money, gifts, or anything of value to a foreign official to obtain or retain business, and requires businesses to make and keep accurate books and records and a system of internal accounting controls. We cannot guarantee that our employees, contractors, and agents will comply with all of our FCPA compliance policies and procedures. If we or our employees, contractors, or agents fail to comply with the requirements of the FCPA or similar legislation, government authorities in the US and elsewhere could seek to impose civil or criminal fines and penalties which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.. 13. Table of Contents. We face the risks and uncertainties that are associated with litigation and investigations, which may adversely impact our marketing, distract management and have a negative impact upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face the risks associated with litigation and investigations concerning the operation of our business, including claims by clients regarding product and contract disputes, by other third parties asserting infringement of intellectual property rights, by current and former employees regarding certain employment matters, by certain shareholders, and by governmental and regulatory bodies for failures to comply with applicable laws. The uncertainty associated with substantial unresolved disputes may have an adverse effect on our business. In particular, such disputes could impair our relationships with existing clients and our ability to obtain new clients. Defending litigation and investigative matters may require substantial cost and may result in a diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. There can be no assurance that such litigation and investigations will not result in liability in excess of our insurance coverage, that our insurance will cover such claims or that appropriate insurance will continue to be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates. In addition, any enforcement action by a government agency may result in fines, damage awards, regulatory consequences or other sanctions which could have a material adverse effect, individually or collectively, on the Company's liquidity, financial condition or results of operations.. We may be impacted by IT system failures or other disruptions. We may be subject to IT systems failures and network disruptions. These may be caused by natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, computer viruses, malware, physical or electronic break-ins, or other events or disruptions. System redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. Such failures or disruptions could prevent access to or the delivery of certain of our products or services, compromise our data or our clients' data, or result in delayed or cancelled orders as well as potentially expose us to third party claims. System failures and disruptions could also impede our transactions processing services and financial reporting.. Our business operations are subject to interruption by, among other, natural disasters, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks, and other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues, and other issues beyond our control. Such events could decrease our demand for our products or services or make it difficult or impossible for us to develop and deliver our products or services to our clients. A significant portion of our research and development activities, our corporate headquarters, our IT systems, and certain of our other critical business operations are concentrated in a few geographic areas. In the event of a business disruption in one or more of those areas, we could incur significant losses, require substantial recovery time, and experience significant expenditures in order to resume operations, which could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, and operating results.. We have had to take charges due to asset impairments, and we could suffer further charges due to asset impairment that could reduce our income. We test our goodwill for impairment annually during our first fiscal quarter, and on interim dates should events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable in accordance with the relevant accounting guidance. In the past, we have recorded sizeable goodwill impairment charges, and we may need to do so in the future. Declines in business performance or other factors could cause the fair value of any of our operating segments to be revised downward, resulting in further impairment charges. If the financial outlook for any of our operating segments warrants additional impairments of goodwill, the resulting write-downs could materially affect our reported net earnings.. We face risks related to litigation advanced by a former director and shareholder of ours, a putative class action and a shareholder derivative claim. On October 7, 2013, a complaint was filed against our Company and certain of our officers and directors in the Superior Court of the State of California for the County of Orange, captioned Ahmed D. Hussein v. Sheldon Razin, Steven Plochocki, Quality Systems, Inc. and Does 1-10, inclusive, No. 30-2013-00679600-CU-NP-CJC, by Ahmed Hussein, a former director and significant shareholder of our Company. We filed a demurrer to the complaint, which the Court granted on April 10, 2014. An amended complaint was filed on April 25, 2014. The amended complaint generally alleges fraud and deceit, constructive fraud, negligent misrepresentation and breach of fiduciary duty in connection with statements made to our shareholders regarding our financial condition and projected future performance. The amended complaint seeks actual damages, exemplary and punitive damages and costs. We filed a demurrer to the amended complaint. On July 29, 2014, the Court sustained the demurrer with respect to the breach of fiduciary duty claim, and overruled the demurrer with respect to the fraud and deceit claims. On August 28, 2014, we filed an answer and also filed a cross-complaint against Hussein, alleging that he breached fiduciary duties owed to the Company, Mr. Razin and Mr. Plochocki. Mr. Razin and Mr. Plochocki have dismissed their claims against Hussein, leaving QSI as the sole plaintiff in the cross-complaint. On June 26, 2015, we filed a motion for summary judgment with respect to Hussein's claims, which the Court granted on September 16, 2015, dismissing all of Hussein's claims against us. On September 23, 2015, Hussein filed an application for reconsideration of the Court's summary judgment order, which the Court denied. Hussein filed a renewed application for reconsideration of the Court's summary judgment order on August 3, 2017. The Court again denied Hussein's application. On October 28, 2015, May 9, 2016, and August 5, 2016, Hussein filed a motion for summary judgment, motion for summary adjudication, and motion for judgment on the pleadings, respectively, seeking to dismiss our cross-complaint. The Court denied each motion. Trial on our cross-complaint began June 12, 2017. On July 26, 2017, the Court issued a statement of decision granting Hussein's motion for judgment on our cross-complaint. Final judgment over Hussein's claims and our cross-claims was entered on January 9, 2018. Hussein has noticed his appeal of the order granting summary judgment over his claims, and we noticed a cross-appeal on the court's statement of decision granting Hussein's motion for judgment on our cross-complaint. Briefing on the cross-appeals will be completed in fall 2018.. 14. Table of Contents. On November 19, 2013, a putative class action complaint was filed on behalf of the shareholders of our Company other than the defendants against us and certain of our officers and directors in the United States District Court for the Central District of California by one of our shareholders. After the Court appointed lead plaintiffs and lead counsel for this action, and recaptioned the action In re Quality Systems, Inc. Securities Litigation, No. 8:13-cv-01818-CJC-JPR, lead plaintiffs filed an amended complaint on April 7, 2014. The amended complaint, which is substantially similar to the litigation described above under the caption \"Hussein Litigation,\" generally alleges that statements made to our shareholders regarding our financial condition and projected future performance were false and misleading in violation of Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the \"Exchange Act\"), and that the individual defendants are liable for such statements because they are controlling persons under Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act. The complaint seeks compensatory damages, court costs and attorneys' fees. We filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint on June 20, 2014, which the Court granted on October 20, 2014, dismissing the complaint with prejudice. Plaintiffs filed a motion for reconsideration of the Court's order, which the Court denied on January 5, 2015. On January 30, 2015, Plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, captioned In re Quality Systems, Inc. Securities Litigation, No. 15-55173. On July 28, 2017, the Ninth Circuit issued a decision reversing and remanding the District Court's order on our motion to dismiss. On September 5, 2017, we filed a petition for rehearing en banc, which was denied on September 29, 2017. On January 26, 2018, we filed a petition for a writ of certiorari with the Supreme Court of the United States. The Supreme Court ordered the plaintiffs to file a response to the petition, which they filed on March 22, 2018. On May 10, 2018, the parties reached an agreement-in-principle to resolve the action for $19 million.  On May 11, 2018, the parties requested that the Supreme Court stay any decision regarding whether to hear the Company's petition for a writ of certiorari, pending the parties' ongoing settlement negotiations.  Under the terms of the agreement-in-principle, a portion of the settlement will be funded by certain of the Company's insurance carriers, and defendants will continue to deny any liability or wrongdoing.  Once the parties enter into a definitive settlement agreement resolving the matter, the settlement will be submitted to the Court for approval.  The agreement-in-principle does not resolve the Hussein Litigation or the Shareholder Derivative Litigation.. On January 24, 2014, a complaint was filed against our Company and certain of our officers and current and former directors in the United States District Court for the Central District of California, captioned Timothy J. Foss, derivatively on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, vs. Craig A. Barbarosh, George H. Bristol, James C. Malone, Peter M. Neupert, Morris Panner, D. Russell Pflueger, Steven T. Plochocki, Sheldon Razin, Lance E. Rosenzweig and Quality Systems, Inc., No. SACV14-00110-DOC-JPPx, by Timothy J. Foss, a purported shareholder of ours. The complaint arises from the same allegations described above under the captions \"Hussein Litigation\" and \"Federal Securities Class Action\" and generally alleges breach of fiduciary duties, abuse of control and gross mismanagement by our directors, in addition to unjust enrichment and insider selling by individual directors. The complaint seeks compensatory damages, restitution and disgorgement of all profits, court costs, attorneys' fees and implementation of enhanced corporate governance procedures. The matter was stayed pending the Ninth Circuit's decision in the appeal described above under the caption, \"Federal Securities Class Action.\" This stay now has been lifted and, Defendants filed a motion to dismiss on February 2, 2018. Defendants' motion is scheduled to be heard on July 23, 2018.. On September 28, 2017, a complaint was filed against our Company and certain of our current and former officers and directors in the United States District Court for the Central District of California, captioned Kusumam Koshy, derivatively on behalf of Quality Systems Inc. vs. Craig Barbarosh, George H. Bristol, James C. Malone, Peter M. Neupert, Morris Panner, D. Russell Pflueger, Steven T. Plochocki, Sheldon Razin, Lance E. Rosenzweig, Paul A. Holt, and Quality Systems, Inc., No. 8:17-cv-01694, by Kusumam Koshy, a purported shareholder of ours. The complaint alleges breach of fiduciary duties and abuse of control, as well as unjust enrichment and insider selling by individual directors arising out of the allegations described above under the captions \"Hussein Litigation\" and \"Federal Securities Class Action,\" QSI's adoption of revised indemnification agreements, and the resignation of certain officers of the Company. The complaint seeks restitution and disgorgement, court costs and attorneys' fees, and enhanced corporate governance reforms and internal control procedures. On January 12, 2018, Defendants filed a motion to dismiss the derivative complaint. Defendants' motion is scheduled to be heard on July 23, 2018.. Although we believe the claims to be without merit, our operating results and share price may be negatively impacted due to the negative publicity, expenses incurred in connection with our defense, management distraction, and/or other factors related to this litigation. In addition, litigation of this nature may negatively impact our ability to attract and retain clients and strategic partners, as well as qualified board members and management personnel.. Our credit agreement contains restrictive and financial covenants that may limit our operational flexibility. If we fail to meet our obligations under the credit agreement, our operations may be interrupted and our business and financial results could be adversely affected. On March 29, 2018, we entered into a revolving credit agreement with various lenders, secured by substantially all of our and our material domestic subsidiaries' existing and future property. The credit agreement includes certain customary covenants that impose restrictions on our business and financing activities that could limit our operations or flexibility to take certain actions. The credit agreement also contains certain customary affirmative covenants requiring us to maintain specified levels of financial performance. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events that could be beyond our control. A breach of these covenants could result in an event of default under the credit agreement which, if not cured or waived, could result in the indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable, which in turn could result in material adverse consequences that negatively impact our business, the market price for our common stock, and our ability to obtain financing in the future. In addition, our credit agreement's covenants, consent requirements, and other provisions may limit our flexibility to pursue or fund strategic initiatives or acquisitions that might be in the long-term interests of our Company and shareholders.. 15. Table of Contents. We may not be successful in integrating and operating our recent acquisitions, and in implementing our post-acquisition business strategy with respect to the products acquired in these transactions. Our shift in product focus following the acquisitions may not yield the desired results. We have recently completed several acquisitions. As a result of these acquisitions, we have devoted and will continue to need to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the acquired companies' businesses and product platforms into our business. We may experience problems associated with the acquired companies and their personnel, processes, product, technology, liabilities, commitments, and other matters. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate the acquired businesses or realize synergies and benefits from the transactions. Furthermore, the acquisitions have substantially altered our business strategy, increasing our focus on efforts to expand our client base and cloud-based solution capabilities in the ambulatory market. The HealthFusion acquisition caused us to evaluate the impact of HealthFusion's existing cloud-based product, MediTouch, on our ongoing efforts to develop and release our NextGen Now cloud-based platform. Our assessment led us to determine that MediTouch, which was already a production-ready and sellable solution, represented a more prudent investment in our technical future than continuing with the NextGen Now development plans. Accordingly, we abandoned further development of the previously capitalized NextGen Now platform, and instead have redeployed research and development capital toward enhancing and scaling the HealthFusion MediTouch cloud-based platform. This shift resulted in a pre-tax non-cash charge of approximately $32 million relating to the impairment of a portion of our previously capitalized NextGen Now software development costs. If we are unable to successfully integrate acquisitions and implement post-acquisition revisions to our business strategy and product focus, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may suffer.. Risks Related to Our Products and Services. If our principal products, new product developments or implementation, training and support services fail to meet the needs of our clients due to lack of client acceptance, errors, or other problems, we may fail to realize future growth, suffer reputational harm and face the risk of losing existing clients. We currently derive substantially all of our net revenue from sales of our healthcare information systems and related services. We believe that a primary factor in the market acceptance of our systems has been our ability to meet the needs of users of healthcare information systems. Our future financial performance will depend in large part on our ability to continue to meet the increasingly sophisticated needs of our clients through the timely development and successful introduction of new and enhanced versions of our systems and other complementary products, as well as our ability to provide high quality implementation, training and support services for our products. We have historically expended a significant percentage of our net revenue on product development and believe that significant continuing product development efforts will be required to retain our existing clients and sustain our growth. Continued investment in our sales staff and our client implementation, training and support staffs will also be required to retain and grow our client base.. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our client satisfaction or product development efforts, that the market will continue to accept our existing products and services, or that new products or product enhancements will be developed and implemented in a timely manner, meet the requirements of healthcare providers, or achieve market acceptance. Also, it is possible that our technology may contain defects or errors, some of which may remain undetected for a period of time. If we detect errors before we introduce a solution, we may have to delay deployment for an extended period of time while we address the problem. If we do not discover errors until after product deployment, we may need to provide enhancements to correct such errors. Remediating product defects and errors could consume our development and management resources. In addition, any failure or perceived failure to maintain high-quality and highly-responsive client support could harm our reputation. Quality or performance issues with our products and services may result in product-related liabilities, unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to remedy errors, harm to our reputation, lost sales, delays in commercial releases, delays in or loss of market acceptance of our solutions, license termination or renegotiations, and privacy or security vulnerabilities. If new products or product enhancements are delayed or do not achieve market acceptance, or if our implementation, training and support services do not achieve a high degree of client satisfaction, our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. At certain times in the past, we have also experienced delays in purchases of our products by clients anticipating our launch, or the launch of our competitors, of new products. There can be no assurance that material order deferrals in anticipation of new product introductions from ourselves or other entities will not occur.. If the emerging technologies and platforms of Microsoft and others upon which we build our products do not gain or continue to maintain broad market acceptance, or if we fail to develop and introduce in a timely manner new products and services compatible with such emerging technologies, we may not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenue will suffer. Our software products are built and depend upon several underlying and evolving relational database management system platforms such as those developed by Microsoft. To date, the standards and technologies upon which we have chosen to develop our products have proven to have gained industry acceptance. However, the market for our software products is subject to ongoing rapid technological developments, quickly evolving industry standards and rapid changes in client requirements, and there may be existing or future technologies and platforms that achieve industry standard status, which are not compatible with our products.. We are dependent on our license rights and other services from third parties, which may cause us to discontinue, delay or reduce product shipments. We depend upon licenses for some of the technology used in our products as well as other services from third party vendors. Most of these arrangements can be continued/renewed only by mutual consent and may be terminated for any number of reasons. We may not be able to continue using the products or services made available to us under these arrangements on commercially reasonable terms or at all. As a result, we may have to discontinue, delay or reduce product shipments or services provided until we can obtain equivalent technology or services. Most of our third party licenses are non-exclusive. Our competitors may obtain the right to use any of the business elements covered by these arrangements and use these elements to compete directly with us. In addition, if our vendors choose to discontinue providing their technology or services in the future or are unsuccessful in their continued research and development efforts, we may not be able to modify or adapt our own products.. 16. Table of Contents. We may experience interruption at our data centers or client support facilities. We perform data center and/or hosting services for certain clients, including the storage of critical patient and administrative data at company-owned facilities and through third party hosting arrangements. In addition, we provide support services to our clients through various client support facilities. We have invested in reliability features such as multiple power feeds, multiple backup generators and redundant telecommunications lines, as well as technical (such as multiple overlapping security applications, access control and other countermeasures) and physical security safeguards, and structured our operations to reduce the likelihood of disruptions. However, complete failure of all local public power and backup generators, impairment of all telecommunications lines, a concerted denial of service cyber-attack, a significant data breach, damage, injury or impairment (environmental, accidental, intentional or pandemic) to the buildings, the equipment inside the buildings housing our data centers, the personnel operating such facilities or the client data contained therein, or errors by the personnel trained to operate such facilities could cause a disruption in operations and negatively impact clients who depend on us for data center and system support services. Any interruption in operations at our data centers and/or client support facilities could damage our reputation, cause us to lose existing clients, hurt our ability to obtain new clients, result in significant revenue loss, create potential liabilities for our clients and us and increase insurance and other operating costs.. We face the possibility of having to adopt new pricing strategies, such as subscription pricing or bundling. In April 2009, we announced a new subscription based software as a service delivery model which includes monthly subscription pricing. This model is designed for smaller practices to quickly access the NextGen Ambulatory EHR or NextGen PM products at a modest monthly per provider price. We currently derive substantially all of our systems revenue from traditional software license, implementation and training fees, as well as the resale of computer hardware. Today, the majority of our clients pay an initial license fee for the use of our products, in addition to a periodic maintenance fee. While the intent of the new subscription based delivery model is to further penetrate the smaller practice market, there can be no assurance that this delivery model will not become increasingly popular with both small and large clients. In addition, we have experienced increasing demand for bundling our software and systems with RCM service arrangements, which has required us to modify our standard upfront license fee pricing model and could impact software maintenance revenue streams prospectively. If the marketplace increasingly demands subscription or bundled pricing, we may be forced to further adjust our sales, marketing and pricing strategies accordingly, by offering a higher percentage of our products and services through these means. Shifting to a significantly greater degree of subscription or bundled pricing could adversely affect our financial condition, cash flows and quarterly and annual revenue and results of operations, as our revenue would initially decrease substantially.. We face the possibility of claims based upon our website content, which may cause us expense and management distraction. We could be subject to third party claims based on the nature and content of information supplied on our website by us or third parties, including content providers or users. We could also be subject to liability for content that may be accessible through our website or third-party websites linked from our website or through content and information that may be posted by users in chat rooms, bulletin boards or on websites created by professionals using our applications. Even if these claims do not result in liability to us, investigating and defending against these claims could be expensive and time consuming and could divert management's attention away from our operations.. If our security measures are breached or fail and unauthorized access is obtained to a client's data, our services may be perceived as not being secure, clients may curtail or stop using our services, and we may incur significant liabilities. Our services involve the storage, transmission and processing of clients' proprietary information and protected health information of patients. Because of the sensitivity of this information, security features of our software are very important. If our security measures are breached or fail as a result of third party action, employee error, malfeasance, insufficiency, defective design, or otherwise, someone may be able to obtain unauthorized access to client or patient data. As a result, our reputation could be damaged, our business may suffer, and we could face damages for contract breach, penalties for violation of applicable laws or regulations and significant costs for remediation and remediation efforts to prevent future occurrences. We rely upon our clients as users of our system for key activities to promote security of the system and the data within it, such as administration of client-side access credentialing and control of client-side display of data. On occasion, our clients have failed to perform these activities. Failure of clients to perform these activities may result in claims against us that this reliance was misplaced, which could expose us to significant expense and harm to our reputation even though our policy is to enter into business associate agreements with our clients. Although we extensively train and monitor our employees, it is possible that our employees may, intentionally or unintentionally, breach security measures. Moreover, third parties with whom we do not have business associate agreements may breach the privacy and security of patient information, potentially causing us reputational damage and exposing us to liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose sales and clients. In addition, our clients may authorize or enable third parties to access their client data or the data of their patients on our systems. Because we do not control such access, we cannot ensure the complete propriety of that access or integrity or security of such data in our systems.. 17. Table of Contents. Failure by our clients to obtain proper permissions and waivers may result in claims against us or may limit or prevent our use of data, which could harm our business. We require our clients to provide necessary notices and to obtain necessary permissions and waivers for use and disclosure of the information that we receive, and we require contractual assurances from them that they have done so and will do so. If they do not obtain necessary permissions and waivers, then our use and disclosure of information that we receive from them or on their behalf may be limited or prohibited by state or federal privacy laws or other applicable laws. This could impair our functions, processes and databases that reflect, contain, or are based upon such data and may prevent use of such data. In addition, this could interfere with or prevent creation or use of rules and analyses or limit other data-driven activities that are beneficial to our business. Moreover, we may be subject to claims or liability for use or disclosure of information by reason of lack of valid notice, permission or waiver. These claims or liabilities could subject us to unexpected costs and adversely affect our operating results.. We face the possibility of damages resulting from internal and external security breaches. In the course of our business operations, we store, process, compile and transmit confidential information, including patient health information, in our processing centers and other facilities. A breach of security in any of these facilities could damage our reputation and result in damages being assessed against us. In addition, the other systems with which we may interface, such as the internet and related systems may be vulnerable to security breaches, viruses, programming errors, or similar disruptive problems. In addition, our clients and vendors with whom we have business associate agreements, or other parties with whom we do not have business associate agreements, may be responsible for breaching the security and compromising the privacy of patient information located on our systems. In addition, although we extensively train and monitor our employees, it is possible that our own employees may engage in conduct that compromises security or privacy. The effect of these security breaches and related issues could disrupt our ability to perform certain key business functions and could potentially reduce demand for our services. Accordingly, we have expended significant resources toward establishing and enhancing the security of our related infrastructures, although no assurance can be given that they will be entirely free from potential breach. Maintaining and enhancing our infrastructure security may require us to expend significant capital in the future.. The success of our strategy to offer our electronic data interchange (\"EDI\") services and software as a service (\"SaaS\") solutions depends on the confidence of our clients in our ability to securely transmit confidential information. Our EDI services and SaaS solutions rely on encryption, authentication and other security technology licensed from third parties to achieve secure transmission of confidential information. We may not be able to stop unauthorized attempts to gain access to or disrupt the transmission of communications by our clients. Anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate confidential user information or interrupt our, or our clients', operations. In addition, our EDI and SaaS solutions may be vulnerable to viruses, malware, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions.. High-profile security breaches at other companies have increased in recent years, and security industry experts and government officials have warned about the risks of hackers and cyber-attacks targeting information technology products and businesses. Although this is an industry-wide problem that affects other software and hardware companies, we may be targeted by computer hackers because we are a prominent healthcare information technology company and have high profile clients. These risks will increase as we continue to grow our cloud offerings, store and process increasingly large amounts of our clients' confidential data, including personal health information, and host or manage parts of our clients' businesses in cloud-based/multi-tenant information technology environments. We may use third party public cloud providers in connection with our cloud-based offerings or third party providers to host our own data, in which case we may have to rely on the processes, controls and security such third parties have in place to protect the infrastructure.. The costs we would incur to address any security incidents would increase our expenses, and our efforts to resolve these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential clients that may impede our sales, development of solutions, provision of services, or other critical functions. If a cyberattack or other security incident were to allow unauthorized access to or modification of our clients' or suppliers' data, our own data, or our information technology systems, or if our products or services are perceived as having security vulnerabilities, we could suffer significant damage to our brand and reputation. This could lead to fewer clients using our products or services and make it more difficult for us to obtain new clients, resulting in reduced revenue and earnings. These types of security incidents could also lead to lawsuits, regulatory investigations and claims, and increased legal liability.. Our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to the internet by us and our clients, which is not within our control. We deliver internet-based services and, accordingly, depend on our ability and the ability of our clients to access the internet. This access is currently provided by third parties that have significant market power in the broadband and internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies and government-owned service provides -- all of whom are outside of our control. In the event of any difficulties, outages and delays by internet service providers, we may be impeded from providing services, resulting in a loss of potential or existing clients.. We may be subject to claims for system errors, warranties or product liability, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our software solutions are intended for use in collecting, storing and displaying clinical and healthcare-related information used in the diagnosis and treatment of patients and in related healthcare settings such as admissions and billing. Therefore, users of our software solutions have a greater sensitivity to errors than the market for software products generally. Any failure by our products to provide accurate and timely information concerning patients, their medication, treatment and health status, generally, could result in claims against us which could materially and adversely impact our financial performance, industry reputation and ability to market new system sales. In. 18. Table of Contents. addition, a court or government agency may take the position that our delivery of health information directly, including through licensed practitioners, or delivery of information by a third-party site that a consumer accesses through our websites, exposes us to assertions of malpractice, other personal injury liability, or other liability for wrongful delivery/handling of healthcare services or erroneous health information. We maintain insurance to protect against claims associated with the use of our products as well as liability limitation language in our end-user license agreements, but there can be no assurance that our insurance coverage or contractual language would adequately cover any claim asserted against us. A successful claim brought against us in excess of or outside of our insurance coverage could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Even unsuccessful claims could result in our expenditure of funds for litigation and management time and resources.. Certain healthcare professionals who use our SaaS products will directly enter health information about their patients including information that constitutes a record under applicable law that we may store on our computer systems. Numerous federal and state laws and regulations, the common law and contractual obligations, govern collection, dissemination, use and confidentiality of patient-identifiable health information, including:. •  state and federal privacy and confidentiality laws;. •  our contracts with clients and partners;. •  state laws regulating healthcare professionals;. •  Medicaid laws;. •  the HIPAA and related rules proposed by CMS; and. •  CMS standards for internet transmission of health data.. HIPAA establishes elements including, but not limited to, federal privacy and security standards for the use and protection of Protected Health Information. Any failure by us or by our personnel or partners to comply with applicable requirements may result in a material liability to us.. Although we have systems and policies in place for safeguarding Protected Health Information from unauthorized disclosure, these systems and policies may not preclude claims against us for alleged violations of applicable requirements. Also, third party sites and/or links that consumers may access through our web sites may not maintain adequate systems to safeguard this information, or may circumvent systems and policies we have put in place. In addition, future laws or changes in current laws may necessitate costly adaptations to our policies, procedures, or systems.. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to product liability claims, that such claims will not result in liability in excess of our insurance coverage, that our insurance will cover such claims or that appropriate insurance will continue to be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates. Such product liability claims could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to the effect of payer and provider conduct which we cannot control and accordingly, there is no assurance that revenue for our services will continue at historic levels. We offer certain electronic claims submission products and services as part of our product line. While we have implemented certain product features designed to maximize the accuracy and completeness of claims submissions, these features may not be sufficient to prevent inaccurate claims data from being submitted to payers. Should inaccurate claims data be submitted to payers, we may be subject to liability claims.. Electronic data transmission services are offered by certain payers to healthcare providers that establish a direct link between the provider and payer. This process reduces revenue to third party EDI service providers such as us. As a result of this, and other market factors, we are unable to ensure that we will continue to generate revenue at or in excess of prior levels for such services.. A significant increase in the utilization of direct links between healthcare providers and payers could adversely affect our transaction volume and financial results. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to maintain our existing links to payers or develop new connections on terms that are economically satisfactory to us, if at all.. Proprietary rights are material to our success, and the misappropriation of these rights could adversely affect our business and our financial condition. We are heavily dependent on the maintenance and protection of our intellectual property and we rely largely on technical security measures, license agreements, confidentiality procedures and employee nondisclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property. The majority of our software is not patented and existing copyright laws offer only limited practical protection.. There can be no assurance that the legal protections and precautions we take will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology or that competitors will not independently develop technologies equivalent or superior to ours. Further, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States and are often not enforced as vigorously as those in the United States.. We do not believe that our operations or products infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. However, there can be no assurance that others will not assert infringement or trade secret claims against us with respect to our current or future products or that any such assertion will not require us to enter into a license agreement or royalty arrangement or other. 19. Table of Contents. financial arrangement with the party asserting the claim. Responding to and defending any such claims may distract the attention of our management and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, claims may be brought against third parties from which we purchase software, and such claims could adversely affect our ability to access third party software for our systems.. If we are deemed to infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties, we could incur unanticipated expense and be prevented from providing our products and services. We have been, and may be in the future, subject to intellectual property infringement claims as the number of our competitors grows and our applications' functionality is viewed as similar or overlapping with competitive products. We do not believe that we have infringed or are infringing on any proprietary rights of third parties. However, claims are occasionally asserted against us, and we cannot assure you that infringement claims will not be asserted against us in the future. Also, we cannot assure you that any such claims will be unsuccessful. We could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources defending any infringement claims - even if we are ultimately successful in the defense of such matters. Furthermore, a party making a claim against us could secure a judgment awarding substantial damages, as well as injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to provide products or services. In addition, we cannot assure you that licenses for any intellectual property of third parties that might be required for our products or services will be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.. We face risks related to the periodic maintenance and upgrades that need to be made to our products. As we continue to develop and improve upon our technology and offerings, we need to periodically upgrade and maintain the products deployed to our clients. This process can require a significant amount of our internal time and resources, and be complicated and time consuming for our clients. Certain upgrades may also pose the risk of system delays or failure. If our periodic upgrades and maintenance cause disruptions to our clients, we may lose revenue-generating transactions, our clients may elect to use other solutions and we may also be the subject of negative publicity that may adversely affect our business and reputation.. Risks Related to Regulation. There is significant uncertainty in the healthcare industry in which we operate, and the current governmental laws and regulations as well as any future modifications to the regulatory environment, may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The healthcare industry is subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences that may affect the procurement processes and operation of healthcare facilities. During the past several years, the healthcare industry has been subject to an increase in governmental regulation of, among other things, reimbursement rates and certain capital expenditures.. For example, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as modified by HITECH provisions of the ARRA (collectively, \"HIPAA\"), continues to have a direct impact on the health care industry by requiring national provider identifiers and standardized transactions/code sets, operating rules and necessary security and privacy measures in order to ensure the appropriate level of privacy of protected health information. These regulatory factors affect the purchasing practices and operation of health care organizations.. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (\"PPACA\"), which was amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, became law in 2010. This comprehensive health care reform legislation included provisions to control health care costs, improve health care quality, and expand access to affordable health insurance. The Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 (\"MACRA\"), which became law in 2015, repealed the sustainable growth rate (\"SGR\") formula and created two new value-based payment systems for Medicare physicians. Together with ongoing statutory and budgetary policy developments at a federal level, these health care reform laws include changes in Medicare and Medicaid payment policies and other health care delivery administrative reforms that could potentially negatively impact our business and the business of our clients. Because not all the administrative rules implementing health care reform under these laws have been finalized, and because of ongoing federal fiscal budgetary pressures yet to be resolved for federal health programs, the full impact of the health care reform legislation and of further statutory actions to reform healthcare payment on our business is unknown, but there can be no assurances that health care reform legislation will not adversely impact either our operational results or the manner in which we operate our business. Health care industry participants may respond by reducing their investments or postponing investment decisions, including investments in our solutions and services.. Since January 2017, the actions taken by the Trump administration to delay, cancel, and amend the healthcare regulations and initiatives implemented by the prior administration have created tremendous uncertainty surrounding the continued implementation of the PPACA, MACRA, and other healthcare legislation. The legislative efforts taken by the 115th Congress in 2017 to repeal and amend major provisions of the PPACA added to this uncertainty.. Healthcare providers may react to these proposals, and the uncertainty surrounding such proposals, by curtailing or deferring investments, including those for our systems and related services. Cost-containment measures instituted by healthcare providers as a result of regulatory reform or otherwise could result in a reduction in the allocation of capital funds. Such a reduction could have an adverse effect on our ability to sell our systems and related services. On the other hand, changes in the regulatory environment have increased and may continue to increase the needs of healthcare organizations for cost-effective data management and thereby enhance the overall market for healthcare management information systems. We cannot predict what effect, if any, such proposals or healthcare reforms might have on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 20. Table of Contents. As existing regulations mature and become better defined, we anticipate that these regulations will continue to directly affect certain of our products and services, but we cannot fully predict the effect at this time. We have taken steps to modify our products, services and internal practices as necessary to facilitate our compliance with the regulations, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in a timely or complete manner. Achieving compliance with these regulations could be costly and distract management's attention and divert other company resources, and any noncompliance by us could result in civil and criminal penalties.. Developments of additional federal and state regulations and policies have the potential to positively or negatively affect our business.. Other specific risks include, but are not limited to, risks relating to:. Privacy and Security of Patient Information. As part of the operation of our business, we may have access to or our clients may provide to us individually-identifiable health information related to the treatment, payment, and operations of providers' practices. Government and industry legislation and rulemaking, especially HIPAA, HITECH and standards and requirements published by industry groups such as the Joint Commission require the use of standard transactions, standard identifiers, security and other standards and requirements for the transmission of certain electronic health information. These standards and requirements impose additional obligations and burdens on us, limiting the use and disclosure of individually-identifiable health information, and require us to enter into business associate agreements with our clients and vendors. Failure by us to enter into adequate business associate agreements with any client or vendor would place us in violation of applicable standards and requirements and could expose us to liability. Our business associates may interpret HIPAA requirements differently than we do, and we may not be able to adequately address the risks created by such interpretations. These new rules, and any future changes to privacy and security rules, may increase the cost of compliance and could subject us to additional enforcement actions, which could further increase our costs and adversely affect the way in which we do business.. Interoperability Standards. Our clients are concerned with and often require that our software solutions and health care devices be interoperable with other third-party health care information technology suppliers. With the passing of the MACRA in 2015, the U.S. Congress declared it a national objective to achieve widespread exchange of health information through interoperable certified EHR technology nationwide by December 31, 2018. The 21st Century Cures Act, which was passed and signed into law in December 2016, includes numerous provisions intended to encourage this nationwide interoperability. As a result of the 21st Century Cures Act, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (\"HHS\") has the regulatory authority to investigate and assess civil monetary penalties of up to $1,000,000 against health IT developers and/or providers found to be in violation of \"information blocking\". This new oversight and authority to investigate claims of \"information blocking\" creates significant risks for us and our clients, although at this time HHS, the Office of the National Coordinator for Health IT (\"ONC\"), and the Office of the Inspector General (\"OIG\") have yet to issue regulations and guidance regarding how these provisions will be defined and enforced. The 21st Century Cures Act legislation also requires HHS and ONC to add new certification requirements related to interoperability as a condition of a health IT developer achieving or maintaining approved federal government certification status. One of these requirements is for a developer to publish an application programming interface (API) that allows health information to be \"accessed, exchanged, and used without special effort\". Regulations and certification requirements implementing this legislative provision have not yet been written, but if our software solutions, health care devices or services are not consistent with interoperability standards imposed by governmental/regulatory authorities or demanded by market forces, we could be forced to incur substantial additional development costs to conform.. FDA Regulation of Software as a Medical Device. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (\"FDA\") has the statutory authority to regulate medical software if it falls within the definition of a \"device\" under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (\"FFDCA\"). However, the FDA has exercised enforcement discretion for software said to be \"low risk.\" The December 2016 21st Century Cures Act clarified the FDA's regulation of medical software by amending the definition of \"device\" in the FFDCA to exclude certain software functions, including electronic health record software functionality and administrative software functionality. In December 2017, the FDA issued draft guidance documents to clarify how it intends to interpret and enforce these provisions of the Cures Act. In 2017, the FDA also issued a Digital Health Innovation Action Plan and launched a voluntary \"Software Precertification (Pre-Cert) Pilot Program\" for software developers. Although we believe that our products are currently not subject to FDA regulation, we continue to follow the FDA's guidance in this area, which is subject to change and in some critical areas only currently exists in draft form. As a result, our software may potentially be subject to regulation by the FDA as a medical device. Such regulation could require the registration of the applicable manufacturing facility and software and hardware products, application of detailed record-keeping and manufacturing standards, application of the medical device excise tax, and FDA approval or clearance prior to marketing. An approval or clearance requirement could create delays in marketing, and the FDA could require supplemental filings or object to certain of these applications, the result of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Health Reform. The health reform laws discussed above and that may be enacted in the future contain and may contain various provisions which may impact us and our clients. Some of these provisions may have a positive impact, by expanding the use of electronic health records and other health information technology solutions in certain federal programs, for example, while others, such as reductions in reimbursement for certain types of providers, may have a negative impact due to fewer available resources. Increases in fraud and abuse penalties may also adversely affect participants in the health care sector, including us.. 21. Table of Contents. We may not see the benefits from government funding programs initiated to accelerate the adoption and utilization of health information technology. While government programs have been implemented to improve the efficiency and quality of the healthcare sector, including expenditures to stimulate business and accelerate the adoption and utilization of healthcare technology, we may not see the anticipated benefits of such programs. Under the ARRA, the PPACA, and the MACRA, significant government financial resources are being invested in healthcare, including financial incentives to healthcare providers who can demonstrate meaningful use of certified EHR technology since 2011. While we expect the ARRA, the PPACA, and the MACRA to continue to create sales opportunities over the next several years, we are unsure of the immediate or long-term impact of these government actions.. HITECH established the Medicare and Medicaid EHR Incentive Programs to provide incentive payments for eligible professionals, hospitals, and critical access hospitals as they adopt, implement, upgrade, or demonstrate meaningful use of certified EHR technology. HITECH, and subsequently MACRA, also authorized CMS to apply payment adjustments, or penalties, to Medicare eligible professionals and eligible hospitals that are not meaningful users under the Medicare EHR Incentive Program.. Although we believe that our service offerings will meet the requirements of HITECH and MACRA to allow our clients to qualify for financial incentives and avoid financial penalties for implementing and using our services, there can be no guaranty that our clients will achieve meaningful use (or its equivalent under MACRA's Merit Based Incentive Payment System, Advancing Care Information (\"ACI\")) or actually receive such planned financial incentives for our services. We also cannot predict the speed at which healthcare providers will adopt electronic health record systems in response to these government incentives, whether healthcare providers will select our products and services or whether healthcare providers will implement an electronic health record system at all. In addition, the financial incentives associated with the meaningful use program are tied to provider participation in Medicare and Medicaid, and we cannot predict whether providers will continue to participate in these programs. Any delay in the purchase and implementation of electronic health records systems by healthcare providers in response to government programs, or the failure of healthcare providers to purchase an electronic health record system, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. It is also possible that additional regulations or government programs related to electronic health records, amendment or repeal of current healthcare laws and regulations or the delay in regulatory implementation could require us to undertake additional efforts to meet meaningful use standards, materially impact our ability to compete in the evolving healthcare IT market, materially impact healthcare providers' decisions to implement electronic health records systems or have other impacts that would be unfavorable to our business. Recent regulations from the CMS have slowed or moderated requirements for adoption of certified electronic health record technology (\"CEHRT\") that is required for participation in Medicare and Medicaid programs. As a result, our clients may delay or cancel their decision to purchase our solutions and services needed to comply with these regulations, negatively impacting our sales. The costs of achieving and maintaining CEHRT are also significant and because the definition of CEHRT and its use requirements for clients are subject to regulatory changes, these programs and future regulatory changes to them could adversely impact our business.. We may be subject to false or fraudulent claim laws. There are numerous federal and state laws that forbid submission of false information or the failure to disclose information in connection with submission and payment of physician claims for reimbursement. In some cases, these laws also forbid abuse of existing systems for such submission and payment. Any failure of our RCM services to comply with these laws and regulations could result in substantial liability including, but not limited to, criminal liability, could adversely affect demand for our services and could force us to expend significant capital, research and development and other resources to address the failure. Errors by us or our systems with respect to entry, formatting, preparation or transmission of claim information may be determined or alleged to be in violation of these laws and regulations. Determination by a court or regulatory agency that our services violate these laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, invalidate all or portions of some of our client contracts, require us to change or terminate some portions of our business, require us to refund portions of our services fees, cause us to be disqualified from serving clients doing business with government payers and have an adverse effect on our business.. In most cases where we are permitted to do so, we calculate charges for our RCM services based on a percentage of the collections that our clients receive as a result of our services. To the extent that violations or liability for violations of these laws and regulations require intent, it may be alleged that this percentage calculation provides us or our employees with incentive to commit or overlook fraud or abuse in connection with submission and payment of reimbursement claims. The U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services has stated that it is concerned that percentage-based billing services may encourage billing companies to commit or to overlook fraudulent or abusive practices.. A portion of our business involves billing of Medicare claims on behalf of its clients. In an effort to combat fraudulent Medicare claims, the federal government offers rewards for reporting of Medicare fraud which could encourage others to subject us to a charge of fraudulent claims, including charges that are ultimately proven to be without merit.. Additionally, under the False Claims Act (\"FCA\"), the federal government allows private individuals to file a complaint or otherwise report actions alleging the defrauding of the federal government by an entity. These suits, known as qui tam actions or \"whistleblower\" suits may be brought by, with only a few exceptions, any private citizen who believes that he has material information of a false claim that has not been previously disclosed. If the federal government intervenes, the individual that filed the initial complaint may share in any settlement or judgment. If the federal government does not intervene in the action, the whistleblower plaintiff may pursue its allegation independently. Some states have adopted similar state whistleblower and false claims provisions. Qui tam actions under the FCA and similar state laws may lead to significant fines, penalties, settlements or other sanctions, including exclusion from Medicare or other federal or state healthcare programs.. 22. Table of Contents. If our products fail to comply with evolving government and industry standards and regulations, we may have difficulty selling our products. We may be subject to additional federal and state statutes and regulations in connection with offering services and products via the internet. On an increasingly frequent basis, federal and state legislators are proposing laws and regulations that apply to internet commerce and communications. Areas being affected by these regulations include user privacy, pricing, content, taxation, copyright protection, distribution, and quality of products and services. To the extent that our products and services are subject to these laws and regulations, the sale of our products and services could be harmed.. We are subject to changes in and interpretations of financial accounting matters that govern the measurement of our performance, one or more of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, revenue, results of operations, and debt covenant compliance. Based on our reading and interpretations of relevant guidance, principles or concepts issued by, among other authorities, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the Commission, we believe our current business arrangements, transactions, and related estimates and disclosures have been properly reported. However, there continue to be issued interpretations and guidance for applying the relevant standards to a wide range of sales and licensing contract terms and business arrangements that are prevalent in the software industry. Future interpretations or changes by the regulators of existing accounting standards or changes in our business practices could result in changes in our revenue recognition and/or other accounting policies and practices that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, revenue and results of operations. In addition, changes in accounting rules could alter the application of certain terms in our credit agreement, thereby impacting our ability to comply with our debt covenants.. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have an adverse effect on our business, and our per share price may be adversely affected. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (\"Section 404\") and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC to implement Section 404, we are required to include in our Form 10-K a report by our management regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The report includes, among other things, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The assessment must include disclosure of any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management.. As part of the evaluation undertaken by management and our independent registered public accountants pursuant to Section 404, our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of March 31, 2018. However, if we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls or internal controls over financial reporting, we may discover material weaknesses that we would then be required to disclose. Any material weaknesses identified in our internal controls could have an adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to accurately or timely report on our financial results, and we might be subject to investigation by regulatory authorities. This could result in a loss of investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which may have an adverse effect on our stock price.. No evaluation process can provide complete assurance that our internal controls will detect and correct all failures within our company to disclose material information otherwise required to be reported. The effectiveness of our controls and procedures could also be limited by simple errors or faulty judgments. In addition, if we continue to expand, through either organic growth or through acquisitions (or both), the challenges involved in implementing appropriate controls will increase and may require that we evolve some or all of our internal control processes.. It is also possible that the overall scope of Section 404 may be revised in the future, thereby causing ourselves to review, revise or reevaluate our internal control processes which may result in the expenditure of additional human and financial resources.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. The unpredictability of our quarterly operating results may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate or decline. Our revenue may fluctuate in the future from quarter to quarter and period to period, as a result of a number of factors including, without limitation:. •  the size and timing of orders from clients;. •  the specific mix of software, hardware and services in client orders;. •  the length of sales cycles and installation processes;. •  the ability of our clients to obtain financing for the purchase of our products;. •  changes in pricing policies or price reductions by us or our competitors;. •  the timing of new product announcements and product introductions by us or our competitors;. •  changes in revenue recognition or other accounting guidelines employed by us and/or established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") or other rule-making bodies;. •  changes in government healthcare policies and regulations, such as the shift from fee-for-service reimbursement to value-based reimbursement;. 23. Table of Contents. •  accounting policies concerning the timing of the recognition of revenue;. •  the availability and cost of system components;. •  the financial stability of clients;. •  market acceptance of new products, applications and product enhancements;. •  our ability to develop, introduce and market new products, applications and product enhancements;. •  our success in expanding our sales and marketing programs;. •  deferrals of client orders in anticipation of new products, applications, product enhancements, or public/private sector initiatives;. •  execution of or changes to our strategy;. •  personnel changes; and. •  general market/economic factors.. Our software products are generally shipped as orders are received and accordingly, we have historically operated with a minimal backlog of license fees. As a result, a portion of our revenue in any quarter is dependent on orders booked and shipped in that quarter and is not predictable with any degree of certainty. Furthermore, our systems can be relatively large and expensive, and individual systems sales can represent a significant portion of our revenue and profits for a quarter such that the loss or deferral of even one such sale can adversely affect our quarterly revenue and profitability. Clients often defer systems purchases until our quarter end, so quarterly revenue from system sales generally cannot be predicted and frequently are not known until after the quarter has concluded. Our sales are dependent upon clients' initial decisions to replace or substantially modify their existing information systems, and subsequently, their decision concerning which products and services to purchase. These are major decisions for healthcare providers and, accordingly, the sales cycle for our systems can vary significantly and typically ranges from six to twenty-four months from initial contact to contract execution/shipment. Because a significant percentage of our expenses are relatively fixed, a variation in the timing of systems sales, implementations and installations can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. As a result, we believe that interim period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Further, our historical operating results are not necessarily indicative of future performance for any particular period. We currently recognize revenue in accordance with the applicable accounting guidance as defined by the FASB. There can be no assurance that application and subsequent interpretations of these pronouncements will not further modify our revenue recognition policies, or that such modifications would not adversely affect our operating results reported in any particular quarter or year. Due to all of the foregoing factors, it is possible that our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In such event, the price of our common stock would likely be adversely affected.. Our common stock price has been volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors purchasing shares of our common stock and in litigation against us. Volatility may be caused by a number of factors including but not limited to:. •  actual or anticipated quarterly variations in operating results;. •  rumors about our performance, software solutions, or merger and acquisition activity;. •  changes in expectations of future financial performance or changes in estimates of securities analysts;. •  governmental regulatory action;. •  health care reform measures;. •  client relationship developments;. •  purchases or sales of company stock;. •  activities by one or more of our major shareholders concerning our policies and operations;. •  changes occurring in the markets in general;. •  macroeconomic conditions, both nationally and internationally; and. •  other factors, many of which are beyond our control.. Furthermore, the stock market in general, and the market for software, healthcare and high technology companies in particular, has experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance.. 24. Table of Contents. Moreover, in the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources.. One of our current directors, and one of our former directors are each significant shareholders, which makes it possible for them to have significant influence over the outcome of all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval and which influence may be alleged to conflict with our interests and the interests of our other shareholders. One of our directors is a significant shareholder who beneficially owns approximately 16.0% of the outstanding shares of our common stock at March 31, 2018. In addition, a former director, who owns approximately 8.9% (based on the most recently available publicly filed information) of the outstanding shares of our common stock at March 31, 2018, likely maintains a large enough ownership stake to reelect himself to our Board of Directors under cumulative voting. California law and our Bylaws permit our shareholders to cumulate their votes, the effect of which is to provide shareholders with sufficiently large concentrations of our shares the opportunity to assure themselves one or more seats on our Board of Directors. The amounts required to assure a seat on our Board of Directors can vary based upon the number of shares outstanding, the number of shares voting, the number of directors to be elected, the number of \"broker non-votes,\" and the number of shares held by the shareholder exercising the cumulative voting rights. In the event that cumulative voting is invoked, it is likely that these two individuals that are significant shareholders will each have sufficient votes to assure themselves of one or more seats on our Board of Directors. With or without cumulative voting, these two significant shareholders will have substantial influence over the outcome of all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of our directors and other corporate actions. This influence may be alleged to conflict with our interests and the interests of our other shareholders. For example, in fiscal year 2013, the former director launched a proxy contest to elect a different slate of directors than what our Company proposed to shareholders. We spent approximately $1.3 million to defend against the proxy contest and elect the Company's slate of directors. In addition, such influence by one or both of these shareholders could have the effect of discouraging others from attempting to acquire our Company or create actual or perceived governance instabilities that could adversely affect the price of our common stock.. 25. Table of Contents"
