[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business. We may not have sufficient cash to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution to our unitholders following the establishment of cash reserves by our general partner and the payment of costs and expenses, including reimbursement of expenses to our general partner.. 28. Table of Contents. We may not have sufficient cash to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution. These distributions may only be made from cash available for distribution after the preferred quarterly distribution to which our preferred units are entitled. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends on the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things:. • weather conditions in our operating areas;. • the cost of crude oil, natural gas liquids, gasoline, diesel, ethanol, and biodiesel that we buy for resale and whether we are able to pass along cost increases to our customers;. • the volume of wastewater delivered to our processing facilities;. • disruptions in the availability of crude oil and/or natural gas liquids supply;. • our ability to renew leases for storage and railcars;. • the effectiveness of our commodity price hedging strategy;. • the level of competition from other energy providers; and. • prevailing economic conditions.. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution also depends on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:. • the level of capital expenditures we make;. • the cost of acquisitions, if any;. • restrictions contained in our credit agreement (the \"Credit Agreement\"), the indentures governing our outstanding 5.125% senior notes due 2019, 6.875% senior notes due 2021, 7.50% senior notes due 2023, and 6.125% senior notes due 2025 (collectively, the \"Indentures\") and other debt service requirements;. • restrictions contained in our 10.75% Class A Convertible Preferred Units and 9.00% Class B Fixed-to-Floating Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Unit agreements;. • fluctuations in working capital needs;. • our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets;. • the amount, if any, of cash reserves established by our general partner; and. • other business risks discussed in this Annual Report that may affect our cash levels.. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to our unitholders depends primarily on our cash flow rather than on our profitability, which may prevent us from making distributions, even during periods in which we realize net income.. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we might make cash distributions during periods when we record net losses for financial accounting purposes and we might not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income for financial accounting purposes.. Our future financial performance and growth may be limited by our ability to successfully grow organically and complete accretive acquisitions on economically acceptable terms.. Our ability to complete accretive acquisitions on economically acceptable terms may be limited by various factors, including, but not limited to:. • increased competition for attractive acquisitions;. • covenants in our Credit Agreement and Indentures that limit the amount and types of indebtedness that we may incur to finance acquisitions and which may adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our unitholders;. • lack of available cash or external capital or limitations on our ability to issue equity to pay for acquisitions; and. • possible unwillingness of prospective sellers to accept our common units as consideration and the potential dilutive effect to our existing unitholders caused by an issuance of common units in an acquisition.. 29. Table of Contents. There can be no assurance that we will identify attractive acquisition candidates in the future, that we will be able to acquire such businesses on economically acceptable terms, that any acquisitions will not be dilutive to earnings and distributions or that any additional debt that we incur to finance an acquisition will not adversely affect our ability to make distributions to unitholders. Furthermore, if we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and unitholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources.. We may be subject to substantial risks in connection with the integration and operation of acquired businesses, in particular those businesses with operations that are distinct and separate from our existing operations.. Any acquisitions we make in pursuit of our growth strategy are subject to potential risks, including, but not limited to:. • the inability to successfully integrate the operations of recently acquired businesses;. • the assumption of known or unknown liabilities, including environmental liabilities;. • limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller;. • mistaken assumptions about the overall costs of equity, debt or synergies;. • mistaken assumptions about sales volume, margin or operational expenses;. • unforeseen difficulties operating in new geographic areas or in new business segments;. • the diversion of management's and employees' attention from other business concerns;. • customer or key employee loss from the acquired businesses; and. • a potential significant increase in our indebtedness and related interest expense.. We undertake due diligence efforts in our assessment of acquisitions, but may be unable to identify or fully plan for all issues and risks associated with a particular acquisition. Even when an issue or risk is identified, we may be unable to obtain adequate contractual protection from the seller. The realization of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on the success of a particular acquisition or our consolidated financial position, results of operations or future growth.. As part of our growth strategy, we may expand our operations into businesses that differ from our existing operations. Integration of new businesses is a complex, costly and time-consuming process and may involve assets with which we have limited operating experience. Failure to timely and successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial position or results of operations. In addition to the risks set forth above, new businesses will subject us to additional business and operating risks, such as the acquisitions not being accretive to our unitholders as a result of decreased profitability, increased interest expense related to debt we incur to make such acquisitions or an inability to successfully integrate those operations into our overall business operations. The realization of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.. Our substantial indebtedness may limit our flexibility to obtain financing and to pursue other business opportunities.. At March 31, 2018, the face amount of our long-term debt was $2.7 billion. Our level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following:. • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms;. • our funds available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders will be reduced by that portion of our cash flow required to make principal and interest payments on our debt;. • we may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and. • our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions may be limited.. Our ability to service our debt will depend on, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic and weather conditions, and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our future indebtedness, we would be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments. 30. Table of Contents. or capital expenditures, selling assets or seeking additional equity capital. We may be unable to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all. The agreements governing our indebtedness permit us to incur additional debt under certain circumstances, and we will likely need to incur additional debt in order to implement our growth strategy. We may experience adverse consequences from increased levels of debt.. Restrictions in our Credit Agreement and Indentures could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations, ability to make distributions to unitholders and the value of our common units.. Our Credit Agreement and Indentures limit our ability to, among other things:. • incur additional debt or issue letters of credit;. • redeem or repurchase units;. • make certain loans, investments and acquisitions;. • incur certain liens or permit them to exist;. • engage in sale and leaseback transactions;. • enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates;. • enter into agreements limiting subsidiary distributions;. • change the nature of our business or enter into a substantially different business;. • merge or consolidate with another company; and. • transfer or otherwise dispose of assets.. We are permitted to make distributions to our unitholders under our Credit Agreement and Indentures as long as no default or event of default exists both immediately before and after giving effect to the declaration and payment of the distribution and the distribution does not exceed available cash for the applicable quarterly period. Our Credit Agreement and Indentures also contain covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios. See Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for a further discussion.. The provisions of our Credit Agreement and Indentures may affect our ability to obtain future financing and pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of our Credit Agreement could result in a covenant violation, default or an event of default that could enable our lenders, subject to the terms and conditions of our Credit Agreement, to declare the outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay the accelerated amounts, our lenders could proceed against the collateral we granted them to secure our debts. If the payment of our debt is accelerated, defaults under our other debt instruments, if any then exist, may be triggered, and our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and our unitholders could experience a partial or total loss of their investment.. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact our common unit price, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes, and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels.. Interest rates may increase in the future. As a result, interest rates on our existing and future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield-oriented securities, our common unit price will be impacted by our level of cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our common units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our common unit price and our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and to make payments on our debt obligations and cash distributions at our intended levels.. 31. Table of Contents. Our business depends on the availability of crude oil, natural gas liquids, and refined products in the United States and Canada, which is dependent on the ability and willingness of other parties to explore for and produce crude oil and natural gas. Spending on crude oil and natural gas exploration and production may be adversely affected by industry and financial market conditions that are beyond our control.. Our business depends on domestic spending by the oil and natural gas industry, and this spending and our business have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by industry and financial market conditions and existing or new regulations, such as those related to environmental matters, that are beyond our control.. We depend on the ability and willingness of other entities to make operating and capital expenditures to explore for, develop, and produce crude oil and natural gas in the United States and Canada, and to extract natural gas liquids from natural gas as well as the availability of necessary pipeline transportation and storage capacity. Customers' expectations of lower market prices for crude oil and natural gas, as well as the availability of capital for operating and capital expenditures, may cause them to curtail spending, thereby reducing business opportunities and demand for our services and equipment. Actual market conditions and producers' expectations of market conditions for crude oil and natural gas liquids may also cause producers to curtail spending, thereby reducing business opportunities and demand for our services.. Industry conditions are influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, such as the availability of commercially viable geographic areas in which to explore and produce crude oil and natural gas, the availability of liquids-rich natural gas needed to produce natural gas liquids, the supply of and demand for crude oil and natural gas, environmental restrictions on the exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas, such as existing and proposed regulation of hydraulic fracturing, domestic and worldwide economic conditions, political instability in crude oil and natural gas producing countries and merger and divestiture activity among our current or potential customers. The volatility of the oil and natural gas industry and the resulting impact on exploration and production activity could adversely impact the level of drilling activity. This reduction may cause a decline in business opportunities or the demand for our services, or adversely affect the price of our services. Reduced discovery rates of new crude oil and natural gas reserves in our market areas also may have a negative long-term impact on our business, even in an environment of stronger crude oil and natural gas prices, to the extent existing production is not replaced.. The crude oil and natural gas production industry tends to run in cycles and may, at any time, cycle into a downturn; if that occurs, the rate at which it returns to former levels, if ever, will be uncertain. Prior adverse changes in the global economic environment and capital markets and declines in prices for crude oil and natural gas have caused many customers to reduce capital budgets for future periods and have caused decreased demand for crude oil and natural gas. Limitations on the availability of capital, or higher costs of capital, for financing expenditures have caused and may continue to cause customers to make additional reductions to capital budgets in the future even if commodity prices increase from current levels. These cuts in spending may curtail drilling programs and other discretionary spending, which could result in a reduction in business opportunities and demand for our services, the rates we can charge and our utilization. In addition, certain of our customers could become unable to pay their suppliers, including us. Any of these conditions or events could materially and adversely affect our consolidated results of operations.. Declining crude oil prices could adversely impact our Water Solutions and Crude Oil Logistics businesses.. Crude oil spot and forward prices experienced a sharp decline during the second half of calendar year 2014. While crude oil prices have rebounded from the lows experienced during the first three months of calendar year 2016, they are still well below the prices from the first half of calendar year 2014. This has had an unfavorable impact on the revenues of our Water Solutions business. The volume of water we process is driven in part by the level of crude oil production, and the lower crude oil prices have given producers less incentive to expand production. In addition, a portion of the revenues in our Water Solutions business is generated from the sale of hydrocarbons that we recover when processing wastewater, and lower crude oil prices have an adverse impact on these revenues. A further decline in crude oil prices or a prolonged period of low crude oil prices could have an adverse effect on our Water Solutions business.. In addition, the sharp decline in crude oil prices has reduced the incentive for producers to expand production. If crude oil prices remain low, resultant declines in crude oil production could adversely impact volumes in our Crude Oil Logistics business.. Our profitability could be negatively impacted by price and inventory risk related to our business.. The Crude Oil Logistics, Liquids, Retail Propane, and Refined Products and Renewables businesses are \"margin-based\" businesses in which our realized margins depend on the differential of sales prices over our total supply costs. Our. 32. Table of Contents. profitability is therefore sensitive to changes in product prices caused by changes in supply, pipeline transportation and storage capacity or other market conditions.. Generally, we attempt to maintain an inventory position that is substantially balanced between our purchases and sales, including our future delivery obligations. We attempt to obtain a certain margin for our purchases by selling our product to our customers, which include third-party consumers, other wholesalers and retailers, and others. However, market, weather or other conditions beyond our control may disrupt our expected supply of product, and we may be required to obtain supply at increased prices that cannot be passed through to our customers. In general, product supply contracts permit suppliers to charge posted prices at the time of delivery or the current prices established at major storage points, creating the potential for sudden and drastic price fluctuations. Sudden and extended wholesale price increases could reduce our margins and could, if continued over an extended period of time, reduce demand by encouraging retail customers to conserve or convert to alternative energy sources. Conversely, a prolonged decline in product prices could potentially result in a reduction of the borrowing base under our working capital facility, and we could be required to liquidate inventory that we have already presold.. One of the strategies of our Refined Products and Renewables segment is to purchase refined products in the Gulf Coast region and to transport the product on the Colonial pipeline for sale in the Southeast and East Coast. Spreads between product prices in the Gulf Coast compared to locations along the Colonial pipeline can vary significantly, which can create volatility in our product margins. In addition, we are subject to the risk of a price decline between the time we purchase refined products and the time we sell the products. We seek to mitigate this risk by entering into NYMEX futures contracts. However, price changes in locations where we operate do not correspond directly with changes in prices in the NYMEX futures market, and as a result these futures contracts cannot be perfect hedges of our commodity price risk.. We are affected by competition from other midstream, transportation, terminaling and storage, and retail-marketing companies, some of which are larger and more firmly established and may have greater resources than we do.. We experience competition in all of our segments. In our Liquids segment, we compete for natural gas liquids supplies and also for customers for our services. Our competitors include major integrated oil companies, interstate and intrastate pipelines and companies that gather, compress, treat, process, transport, store and market natural gas. Our natural gas liquids terminals compete with other terminaling and storage providers in the transportation and storage of natural gas liquids. Natural gas and natural gas liquids also compete with other forms of energy, including electricity, coal, fuel oil and renewable or alternative energy.. Our Crude Oil Logistics segment faces significant competition for crude oil supplies and also for customers for our services. These operations also face competition from trucking companies for incremental and marginal volumes in the areas we serve. Further, our crude oil terminals compete with terminals owned by integrated petroleum companies, refining and marketing companies, independent terminal companies and distribution companies with marketing and trading operations.. Our Water Solutions segment is in direct and indirect competition with other businesses, including disposal and other wastewater treatment businesses.. We face strong competition in the market for the sale of retail propane and distillates. Our competitors vary from retail propane companies who are larger and have greater financial resources than we do to small independent retail propane distributors, agricultural cooperatives and fuel oil distributors who have entered the market due to a low barrier to entry. The actions of our retail propane and distillate competitors and the impact of imports/exports could lead to lower prices or reduced margins for the products we sell, which could have an adverse effect on our business or consolidated results of operations.. Our Refined Products and Renewables segment also faces significant competition for refined products and renewables supplies and also for customers for our services.. We can make no assurance that we will compete successfully in each of our lines of business. If a competitor attempts to increase market share by reducing prices, we may lose customers, which would reduce our revenues.. Our business would be adversely affected if service at our principal storage facilities or on the common carrier pipelines or railroads we use is interrupted.. We use third-party common carrier pipelines to transport our products and we use third-party facilities to store our products. Any significant interruption in the service at these storage facilities or on the common carrier pipelines we use would adversely affect our ability to obtain products. We transport crude oil, natural gas liquids, ethanol, and biodiesel by railcar. We. 33. Table of Contents. do not own or operate the railroads on which these railcars are transported. Any disruptions in the operations of these railroads could adversely impact our ability to deliver product to our customers.. The fees charged to customers under our agreements with them for the transportation and marketing of crude oil, condensate, natural gas liquids, gasoline, diesel, ethanol, and biodiesel may not escalate sufficiently to cover increases in costs and the agreements may be suspended in some circumstances, which would affect our profitability.. Our costs may increase more rapidly than the fees that we charge to customers pursuant to our contracts with them. Additionally, some customers' obligations under their agreements with us may be permanently or temporarily reduced upon the occurrence of certain events, some of which are beyond our control, including force majeure events wherein the supply of crude oil, condensate, and/or natural gas liquids are curtailed or cut off. Force majeure events include (but are not limited to) revolutions, wars, acts of enemies, embargoes, import or export restrictions, strikes, lockouts, fires, storms, floods, acts of God, explosions, mechanical or physical failures of our equipment or facilities of our customers. If the escalation of fees is insufficient to cover increased costs, or if any customer suspends or terminates its contracts with us, our profitability could be materially and adversely affected.. Our sales of crude oil, condensate, natural gas liquids, gasoline, diesel, ethanol, and biodiesel and related transportation and hedging activities, and our processing of wastewater, expose us to potential regulatory risks.. The FTC, the FERC, and the CFTC hold statutory authority to monitor certain segments of the physical and financial energy commodity markets. With regard to our physical sales of energy commodities, and any related transportation and/or hedging activities that we undertake, we are required to observe the market-related regulations enforced by these agencies, which hold substantial enforcement authority. Our sales may also be subject to certain reporting and other requirements. Additionally, some of our operations are currently subject to the FERC regulations obligating us to comply with the FERC's regulations and policies applicable to those assets and operations. Other of our operations may become subject to the FERC's jurisdiction in the future (see \" - Some of our operations are subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC and other operations may become subject in the future,\" below). Any failure on our part to comply with the FERC's regulations and policies at that time could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties. Failure to comply with such regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could have a material and adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and financial position.. The intrastate transportation or storage of crude oil and refined products is subject to regulation by the state in which the facilities are located and transactions occur. Compliance with these state regulations could have a material and adverse effect on that portion of our business, consolidated results of operations and financial position.. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\") provides for statutory and regulatory requirements for derivative transactions, including crude oil, refined and renewable products, and natural gas hedging transactions. Certain transactions will be required to be cleared on exchanges and cash collateral will have to be posted. The Dodd-Frank Act provides for a potential exemption from these clearing and cash collateral requirements for commercial end users and it includes a number of defined terms that will be used in determining how this exemption applies to particular derivative transactions and the parties to those transactions. Since the Dodd-Frank Act mandates the CFTC to promulgate rules to define these terms, the full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our hedging activities is uncertain at this time. However, new legislation and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks that we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. The Dodd-Frank Act may also materially affect our customers and materially and adversely affect the demand for our services.. We are subject to trucking safety regulations, which are enacted, reviewed and amended by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (\"FMCSA\"). If our current DOT safety ratings are downgraded to \"Unsatisfactory\", our business and results of our operations may be adversely affected.. All federally regulated carriers' safety ratings are measured through a program implemented by the FMCSA known as the Compliance Safety Accountability (\"CSA\") program. The CSA program measures a carrier's safety performance based on violations observed during roadside inspections as opposed to compliance audits performed by the FMCSA. The quantity and severity of any violations are compared to a peer group of companies of comparable size and annual mileage. If a company rises above a threshold established by the FMCSA, it is subject to action from the FMCSA. There is a progressive intervention strategy that begins with a company providing the FMCSA with an acceptable plan of corrective action that the company will implement. If the issues are not corrected, the intervention escalates to on-site compliance audits and ultimately an \"unsatisfactory\" rating and the revocation of the company's operating authority by the FMCSA, which could result in a. 34. Table of Contents. material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and financial position and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Our business is subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations with respect to environmental, safety and other regulatory matters and the cost of compliance with, violation of or liabilities under, such laws and regulations could adversely affect our profitability.. Our operations, including those involving crude oil, condensate, natural gas liquids, refined products, renewables, and crude oil and natural gas produced wastewater, are subject to stringent federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of natural resources and the environment, health and safety, waste management, and transportation and disposal of such products and materials. We face inherent risks of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities due to handling of wastewater and hydrocarbons, such as crude oil, condensate, natural gas liquids, gasoline, diesel, ethanol, and biodiesel. For instance, our Water Solutions business carries with it environmental risks, including leakage from the treatment plants to surface or subsurface soils, surface water or groundwater, or accidental spills. Our Crude Oil Logistics, Liquids, and Refined Products and Renewables businesses carry similar risks of leakage and sudden or accidental spills of crude oil, natural gas liquids, and hydrocarbons. Liability under, or violation of, environmental laws and regulations could result in, among other things, the impairment or cancellation of operations, injunctions, fines and penalties, reputational damage, expenditures for remediation and liability for natural resource damages, property damage and personal injuries.. We use various modes of transportation to carry propane, distillates, crude oil, refined and renewable products and water, including trucks, railcars, barges, and pipelines, each of which is subject to regulation. With respect to transportation by truck, we are subject to regulations promulgated under federal legislation, including the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Act and the Homeland Security Act of 2002, which cover the security and transportation of hazardous materials and are administered by the DOT. We also own and lease a fleet of railcars, the operation of which is subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the Federal Railroad Administration of the DOT, as well as other federal and state regulatory agencies. Railcar accidents within the industry involving trains carrying crude oil from the Bakken region (none of which directly involved any of our business operations), have led to increased legislative and regulatory scrutiny over the safety of transporting crude oil by railcar. The introduction of regulations that result in new requirements addressing the type, design, specifications or construction of railcars used to transport crude oil could result in severe transportation capacity constraints during the periods in which new railcars are constructed to meet new specifications or in which the railcars already placed in service are being retrofitted. Our barge transportation operations are subject to the Jones Act, a federal law generally restricting marine transportation in the United States to vessels built and registered in the United States, and manned/owned by United States citizens, as well as setting forth the rules and regulations of the United States Coast Guard. Non-compliance with any of these regulations could result in increased costs related to the transportation of our products and could have an adverse effect on our business.. In addition, under certain environmental laws, we could be subject to strict and/or joint and several liability for the investigation, removal or remediation of previously released materials. As a result, these laws could cause us to become liable for the conduct of others, such as prior owners or operators of our facilities, or for consequences of our or our predecessor's actions, regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or if such actions were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time of those actions. Also, upon closure of certain facilities, such as at the end of their useful life, we have been and may be required to undertake environmental evaluations or cleanups.. Additionally, in order to conduct our operations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and other authorizations from various federal, state, provincial and local governmental authorities relating to wastewater handling, discharge and disposal, air emissions, transportation and other environmental matters. These authorizations subject us to terms and conditions which may be onerous or costly to comply with, and that may require costly operational modifications to attain and maintain compliance. The renewal, amendment or modification of these permits, approvals and other authorizations may involve the imposition of even more stringent and burdensome terms and conditions with attendant higher costs and more significant effects upon our operations.. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently. New laws or regulations, changes to existing laws or regulations, such as more stringent pollution control requirements or additional safety requirements, or more stringent interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations, may adversely impact us, and could result in increased operating costs and have a material and adverse effect on our activities and profitability. For example, new or proposed laws or regulations governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of wells may increase our costs for treatment of hydraulic fracturing flowback water (or affect our hydraulic fracturing customers' ability to operate) and cause delays, interruption or termination of our water treatment operations, all of which could have a material and adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial position.. 35. Table of Contents. Furthermore, our customers in the oil and gas production industry are subject to certain environmental laws and regulations that may impose significant costs and liabilities on them. Any significant increased costs or restrictions placed on our customers to comply with environmental laws and regulations could affect their production output significantly. Such an effect on our customers could materially and adversely affect our utilization and profitability by reducing demand for our services. The adoption or implementation of any new regulations imposing additional reporting obligations on greenhouse gas emissions, or limiting greenhouse gas emissions from our equipment and operations, could require us to incur significant costs.. State legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to our hydraulic fracturing customers could harm our business.. Hydraulic fracturing is a frequent practice in the crude oil and natural gas fields in which our Water Solutions segment operates. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common process used to facilitate production of natural gas and other hydrocarbon condensates in shale formations, as well as tight conventional formations. The hydraulic fracturing process is primarily regulated by state oil and gas authorities. This process has come under considerable scrutiny from sections of the public as well as environmental and other groups asserting that chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process could adversely affect drinking water supplies. New laws or regulations, or changes to existing laws or regulations in response to this perceived threat may adversely impact the oil and gas drilling industry. Any current or proposed restrictions on hydraulic fracturing could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and regulatory burdens that could make it more difficult or costly to perform hydraulic fracturing which would negatively impact our customer base resulting in an adverse effect on our profitability.. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to saltwater disposal wells could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays and could harm our business.. The water disposal process is primarily regulated by state oil and gas authorities. This water disposal process has come under scrutiny from sections of the public as well as environmental and other groups asserting that the operation of certain water disposal wells has caused increased seismic activity. New laws or regulations, or changes to existing laws or regulations, in response to this perceived threat may adversely impact the water disposal industry.. On certain occasions, a state regulatory agency has requested that we suspend operations at a specified disposal facility, pending further study of its potential impact on seismic activity. In one instance we have modified a disposal well to redirect the flow of water to a different area of the geologic formation in order to address such concerns.. We cannot predict whether any federal, state or local laws or regulations will be enacted and, if so, what actions any such laws or regulations would require or prohibit. However, any restrictions on water disposal could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and regulatory burdens that could make it more difficult or costly to perform water disposal operations, which would negatively impact our profitability.. Seasonal weather conditions and natural or man-made disasters could severely disrupt normal operations and have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. We operate in various locations across the United States and Canada which may be adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions and natural or man-made disasters. During periods of heavy snow, ice, rain or extreme weather conditions such as high winds, tornados and hurricanes or after other natural disasters such as earthquakes or wildfires, we may be unable to move our trucks or railcars between locations and our facilities may be damaged, thereby reducing our ability to provide services and generate revenues. In addition, hurricanes or other severe weather in the Gulf Coast region could seriously disrupt the supply of products and cause serious shortages in various areas, including the areas in which we operate. These same conditions may cause serious damage or destruction to homes, business structures and the operations of customers. Such disruptions could potentially have a material adverse impact on our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Risk management procedures cannot eliminate all commodity risk, basis risk, or risk of adverse market conditions which can adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. In addition, any non-compliance with our risk policy could result in significant financial losses.. Pursuant to the requirements of our market risk policy, we attempt to lock in a margin for a portion of the commodities we purchase by selling such commodities for physical delivery to our customers, such as independent refiners or major oil companies, or by entering into future delivery obligations under contracts for forward sale. We also enter into financial derivative contracts, such as futures, to manage commodity price risk. Through these transactions, we seek to maintain a position that is substantially balanced between purchases on the one hand, and sales or future delivery obligations on the other. 36. Table of Contents. hand. These policies and practices cannot, however, eliminate all risks. For example, any event that disrupts our anticipated physical supply of commodities could expose us to risk of loss resulting from the need to cover obligations required under contracts for forward sale. Additionally, we can provide no assurance that our processes and procedures will detect and/or prevent all violations of our risk management policies and procedures, particularly if deception or other intentional misconduct is involved.. Basis risk describes the inherent market price risk created when a commodity of certain grade or location is purchased, sold or exchanged as compared to a purchase, sale or exchange of a like commodity at a different time or place. Transportation costs and timing differentials are components of basis risk. In a backwardated market (when prices for future deliveries are lower than current prices), basis risk is created with respect to timing. In these instances, physical inventory generally loses value as the price of such physical inventory declines over time. Basis risk cannot be entirely eliminated, and basis exposure, particularly in backwardated or other adverse market conditions, can adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations.. The counterparties to our commodity derivative and physical purchase and sale contracts may not be able to perform their obligations to us, which could materially affect our cash flows and results of operations.. We encounter risk of counterparty nonperformance in our businesses. Disruptions in the supply of product and in the crude oil and natural gas commodities sector overall for an extended or near term period of time could result in counterparty defaults on our derivative and physical purchase and sale contracts. This could impair our ability to obtain supply to fulfill our sales delivery commitments or obtain supply at reasonable prices, which could result in decreased gross margins and profitability, thereby impairing our ability to make payments on our debt obligations or distributions to our unitholders.. Our use of derivative financial instruments could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. We have used derivative financial instruments as a means to protect against commodity price risk or interest rate risk and expect to continue to do so. We may, as a component of our overall business strategy, increase or decrease from time to time our use of such derivative financial instruments in the future. Our use of such derivative financial instruments could cause us to forego the economic benefits we would otherwise realize if commodity prices or interest rates were to change in our favor. In addition, although we monitor such activities in our risk management processes and procedures, such activities could result in losses, which could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and impair our ability to make payments on our debt obligations or distributions to our unitholders.. Some of our operations are subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC and other operations may become subject in the future.. The FERC regulates the transportation of crude oil and refined products on interstate pipelines, among other things. Intrastate transportation and gathering pipelines that do not provide interstate services are not subject to regulation by the FERC. The distinction between the FERC-regulated interstate pipeline transportation on the one hand and intrastate pipeline transportation on the other hand, is a fact-based determination. The Grand Mesa Pipeline became operational on November 1, 2016 and has several points of origin in Colorado, runs from those origin points through Kansas and terminates in Cushing, Oklahoma. The transportation services on the Grand Mesa Pipeline are subject to FERC regulation. Other of our transportation services could in the future become subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC, which could adversely affect the terms of service, rates and revenues of such services.. The classification and regulation of our crude oil pipelines are subject to change based on future determinations by the FERC, federal courts, Congress or regulatory commissions, courts or legislatures in the states in which we operate. If the FERC's regulatory reach was expanded to our other facilities, or if we expand our operations into areas that are subject to the FERC's regulation, we may have to commit substantial capital to comply with such regulations and such expenditures could have a material and adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and cash flows.. Volumes of hydrocarbons recovered during the wastewater treatment process can vary. Any significant reduction in residual crude oil content in wastewater we treat will affect our recovery of hydrocarbons and, therefore, our profitability.. A portion of the revenues in our Water Solutions business is generated from the sale of hydrocarbons that we recover when processing wastewater. Our ability to recover sufficient volumes of hydrocarbons is dependent upon the residual crude oil content in the wastewater we treat, which is, among other things, a function of water temperature. Generally, where water temperature is higher, residual crude oil content is lower. Thus, our crude oil recovery during the winter season is substantially higher than our recovery during the summer season. Additionally, residual crude oil content will decrease if, among other things, producers begin recovering higher levels of crude oil in produced wastewater prior to delivering such water to us for. 37. Table of Contents. treatment. Any reduction in residual crude oil content in the wastewater we treat could materially and adversely affect our profitability.. Competition from alternative energy sources may cause us to lose customers, thereby negatively impacting our financial position and results of operations.. Propane competes with other sources of energy, some of which are less costly for equivalent energy value. We compete for customers against suppliers of electricity, natural gas and fuel oil. Competition from alternative energy sources, including electricity, natural gas and renewables, has increased as a result of reduced regulation of many utilities. Electricity is a major competitor of propane, but propane in some regions has historically had a competitive price advantage over electricity. Except for some industrial and commercial applications, propane is generally not competitive with natural gas in areas where natural gas pipelines already exist because such pipelines generally make it possible for the delivered cost of natural gas to be less expensive than the bulk delivery of propane. The expansion of natural gas into traditional propane markets has historically been inhibited by the capital cost required to expand distribution and pipeline systems; however, the gradual expansion of the nation's natural gas distribution systems has resulted in natural gas being available in areas that previously depended on propane, which could cause us to lose customers, thereby reducing our revenues. Although propane is similar to fuel oil in some applications and market demand, propane and fuel oil compete to a lesser extent primarily because of the cost of converting from one to the other.. We cannot predict the effect that development of alternative energy sources may have on our operations, including whether subsidies of alternative energy sources by local, state, and federal governments might be expanded, or what impact this might have on the supply of or the demand for crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids.. Energy efficiency and new technology may reduce the demand for propane and adversely affect our operating results.. The national trend toward increased conservation and technological advances, such as installation of improved insulation and the development of more efficient furnaces and other appliances, has adversely affected the demand for propane and distillates by retail customers. Future conservation measures or technological advances in appliance efficiency, power generation or other devices may reduce demand for propane. In addition, if the price of propane increases, some of our customers may increase their conservation efforts and thereby decrease their consumption of propane.. The majority of our retail propane operations are geographically concentrated and localized warmer weather and/or economic downturns may adversely affect demand for propane, thereby affecting our financial position and results of operations.. A substantial portion of our retail propane sales are to residential customers located in the northeastern, southeastern, and mid-Atlantic sections of the United States who rely heavily on propane for heating purposes. A significant percentage of our retail propane volume is attributable to sales during the peak heating season of October through March. Warmer weather may result in reduced sales volumes that could adversely impact our consolidated results of operations and financial position. In addition, adverse economic conditions in areas where our retail propane operations are concentrated may cause our residential customers to reduce their use of propane regardless of weather conditions. Localized warmer weather and/or economic downturns may have a significantly greater impact on our consolidated results of operations and financial position than if our Retail Propane business were less concentrated.. Reduced demand for refined products could have an adverse effect our results of operations.. Any sustained decrease in demand for refined products in the markets we serve could reduce our cash flow. Factors that could lead to a decrease in market demand include:. • a recession or other adverse economic condition that results in lower spending by consumers on gasoline, diesel, and travel;. • higher fuel taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that increase, directly or indirectly, the cost of gasoline;. • an increase in automotive engine fuel economy, whether as a result of a shift by consumers to more fuel-efficient vehicles or technological advances by manufacturers;. • an increase in the market price of crude oil that leads to higher refined product prices, which may reduce demand for refined products and drive demand for alternative products; and. 38. Table of Contents. • the increased use of alternative fuel sources, such as battery-powered engines.. Recent attempts to reduce or eliminate the federal Renewable Fuels Standard (\"RFS\"), if successful, could adversely impact our results of operations.. The United States renewables industry is highly dependent on several federal and state incentives which promote the use of renewable fuels. Without these incentives, demand for and the price of renewable fuels could be negatively impacted which could have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. The most significant of the federal and state incentives which benefit renewable products we market, such as ethanol and biodiesel, is the RFS. The RFS requires that an increasing amount of renewable fuels must be blended with petroleum-based fuels each year in the United States. However, the EPA has authority to waive the requirements of the RFS, in whole or in part, if certain conditions are met. Opponents of the RFS have sought, and may continue to seek, to force the EPA to reduce or eliminate the RFS. Further, legislation has been introduced with the goal of significantly reducing or eliminating the RFS. While the outcome of these legislative efforts is uncertain, it is possible that the EPA could adjust the RFS requirements in the future. If the EPA were to adjust the RFS requirements in any material way, it could negatively impact demand for the renewable fuel products we market, which could adversely impact our consolidated results of operations.. The expiration of tax credits could adversely impact the demand for biodiesel, which could adversely impact our results of operations. The demand for biodiesel is supported by certain federal tax credits. These tax credits have typically been granted for short durations, and on several occasions these tax credits have expired. In December 2014, the federal government passed a law reinstating the tax credit retroactively to January 1, 2014 to be effective through December 31, 2014. In December 2015, the federal government re-signed the law reinstating the tax credit retroactively to January 1, 2015 to be effective through December 31, 2016. In February 2018, the federal government passed a law to reinstate the tax credit retroactively to January 1, 2017, with the credit expiring on December 31, 2017. There can be no assurance that the federal government will grant such tax credits in the future. If the federal government were to discontinue the practice of granting such tax credits, this would likely have an adverse effect on demand for biodiesel and on our biodiesel marketing operations.. A loss of one or more significant customers could materially or adversely affect our results of operations.. We expect to continue to depend on key customers to support our revenues for the foreseeable future. The loss of key customers, failure to renew contracts upon expiration, or a sustained decrease in demand by key customers could result in a substantial loss of revenues and could have a material and adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. During the year ended March 31, 2018, a significant portion of our revenues was dependent on key customers as summarized below:. • 66% of the revenues of our Crude Oil Logistics segment were generated from our ten largest customers of the segment;. • 16% of the water treatment and disposal revenues of our Water Solutions segment were generated from our two largest customers of the segment;. • 27% of the revenues of our Liquids segment were generated from our ten largest customers of the segment (exclusive of sales to our Retail Propane segment); and. • 35% of the revenues of our Refined Products and Renewables segment were generated from our ten largest customers of the segment.. Certain of our operations are conducted through joint ventures which have unique risks.. Certain of our operations are conducted through joint ventures. With respect to our joint ventures, we share ownership and management responsibilities with partners that may not share our goals and objectives. Differences in views among the partners may result in delayed decisions or failures to agree on major matters, such as large expenditures or contractual commitments, the construction or acquisition of assets or borrowing money, among others. Delay or failure to agree may prevent action with respect to such matters, even though such action may serve our best interest or that of the joint venture. Accordingly, delayed decisions and disagreements could adversely affect the business and operations of the joint ventures and, in turn, our business and operations. From time to time, our joint ventures may be involved in disputes or legal proceedings which may negatively affect our investments. Accordingly, any such occurrences could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. 39. Table of Contents. Growing our business by constructing new transportation systems and facilities subjects us to construction risks and risks that supplies for such systems and facilities will not be available upon completion thereof.. One of the ways we intend to grow our business is through the construction of additions to our systems and/or the construction of new terminaling, transportation, and wastewater treatment facilities. These expansion projects require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, which may exceed our resources, and involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties, including political opposition by landowners, environmental activists and others. There can be no assurance that we will complete these projects on schedule or at all or at the budgeted cost. Our revenues may not increase upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. Moreover, we may undertake expansion projects to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which anticipated production growth does not materialize or for which we are unable to acquire new customers. We may also rely on estimates of proved, probable or possible reserves in our decision to undertake expansion projects, which may prove to be inaccurate. As a result, our new facilities and infrastructure may not be able to attract enough product to achieve our expected investment return, which could materially and adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and financial position.. We may face opposition to the operation of our pipelines and facilities from various groups.. We may face opposition to the operation of our pipelines and facilities from environmental groups, landowners, tribal groups, local groups and other advocates. Such opposition could take many forms, including organized protests, attempts to block or sabotage our operations, intervention in regulatory or administrative proceedings involving our assets, or lawsuits or other actions designed to prevent, disrupt or delay the operation of our assets and business. For example, repairing our pipelines often involves securing consent from individual landowners to access their property; one or more landowners may resist our efforts to make needed repairs, which could lead to an interruption in the operation of the affected pipeline or facility for a period of time that is significantly longer than would have otherwise been the case. In addition, acts of sabotage or eco-terrorism could cause significant damage or injury to people, property or the environment or lead to extended interruptions of our operations. Any such event that interrupts the revenues generated by our operations, or which causes us to make significant expenditures not covered by insurance, could reduce our cash available for paying distributions to our partners and, accordingly, adversely affect our financial condition and the market price of our securities.. Product liability claims and litigation could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our operations are subject to all operating hazards and risks incident to handling, storing, transporting and providing customers with combustible liquids. As a result, we are subject to product liability claims and litigation, including potential class actions, in the ordinary course of business. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could be costly to defend and could result in an increase of our insurance premiums. Some claims brought against us might not be covered by our insurance policies. In addition, we have self-insured retention amounts which we would have to pay in full before obtaining any insurance proceeds to satisfy a judgment or settlement and we may have insufficient reserves on our balance sheet to satisfy such self-retention obligations. Furthermore, even where the claim is covered by our insurance, our insurance coverage might be inadequate and we would have to pay the amount of any settlement or judgment that is in excess of our policy limits. Our failure to maintain adequate insurance coverage or successfully defend against product liability claims could materially and adversely affect our business, consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. A failure in our operational systems or cyber security attacks on any of our facilities, or those of third parties, may adversely affect our financial results.. Our business is dependent upon our operational systems to process a large amount of data and complex transactions. If any of our financial or operational systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, our financial results could be adversely affected. Our financial results could also be adversely affected if an employee causes our systems to fail, either as a result of inadvertent error or by deliberately tampering with or manipulating our systems. In addition, dependence upon automated systems may further increase the risk related to operational system flaws, and employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect.. Due to increased technology advances, we have become more reliant on technology to increase efficiency in our business. We use various systems in our financial and operations sectors, and this may subject our business to increased risks. Any future cyber security attacks that affect our facilities, our customers and any financial data could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, cyber attacks on our customer and employee data may result in a financial loss, including potential fines for failure to safeguard data, and may negatively impact our reputation. Third-party systems on which we rely could also suffer operational system failure. Any of these occurrences could disrupt our business, resulting in potential liability or reputational damage or otherwise have an adverse effect on our financial results.. 40. Table of Contents. We lease certain facilities and equipment and therefore are subject to the possibility of increased costs to retain necessary land and equipment use.. We do not own all of the land on which our facilities are located, and we are therefore subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and/or increased costs to retain necessary land use if we do not have valid rights-of-way or if our facilities are not properly located within the boundaries of such rights-of-way. Additionally, our loss of rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could materially and adversely affect our business, consolidated results of operations and financial position.. Additionally, certain facilities and equipment (or parts thereof) used by us are leased from third parties for specific periods, including many of our railcars. Our inability to renew facility or equipment leases or otherwise maintain the right to utilize such facilities and equipment on acceptable terms, or the increased costs to maintain such rights, could have a material and adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and cash flows.. Difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers could adversely affect our growth and profitability.. Maintaining a staff of qualified truck drivers is critical to the success of our crude oil logistics and retail propane operations. We have in the past experienced difficulty in attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of qualified drivers. Regulatory requirements, including the FMCSA's CSA initiative, and an improvement in the economy could reduce the number of eligible drivers or require us to pay more to attract and retain drivers. A shortage of qualified drivers and intense competition for drivers from other companies would create difficulties in increasing the number of our drivers in the event we choose to expand our fleet of trucks. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified drivers, we could have difficulty meeting customer demands, which could materially and adversely affect our growth and profitability.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control, including internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud, which would likely have a negative impact on the market price of our common units.. We are subject to the public reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We are also subject to the obligation under Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 to annually review and report on our internal control over financial reporting, and to the obligation under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 to engage our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud, and operate successfully as a publicly traded partnership. Our efforts to maintain our internal controls may be unsuccessful, and we may be unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, including our disclosure controls. Any failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. These risks may be heightened after a business combination, during the phase when we are implementing our internal control structure over the recently acquired business.. Given the difficulties inherent in the design and operation of internal control over financial reporting, as well as future growth of our businesses, we can provide no assurance as to either our or our independent registered public accounting firm's conclusions about the effectiveness of internal controls in the future, and we may incur significant costs in our efforts to comply with Section 404. Ineffective internal controls could subject us to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of confidence in our reported financial information, which could have an adverse effect on our business and would likely have a negative effect on the market price of our common units.. An impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets could reduce our earnings.. At March 31, 2018, we had goodwill and long-lived assets of $4.1 billion. Such assets are subject to impairment reviews on an annual basis, or at an interim date if information indicates that such asset values have been impaired. Any impairment we would be required to record in our financial statements would result in a charge to our income, which would reduce our earnings.. Our business requires extensive credit risk management that may not be adequate to protect against customer nonpayment.. Our credit management procedures may not fully eliminate the risk of nonpayment by our customers. We manage our credit risk exposure through credit analysis, credit approvals, establishing credit limits, requiring prepayments (partially or. 41. Table of Contents. wholly), requiring product deliveries over defined time periods, and credit monitoring. While we believe our procedures are effective, we can provide no assurance that bad debt write-offs in the future may not be significant and any such nonpayment problems could impact our consolidated results of operations and potentially limit our ability to make payments on our debt obligations or distributions to our unitholders.. Our terminaling operations depend on various forms of transportation for receipt and delivery of crude oil, natural gas liquids and refined products.. We own natural gas liquids and crude oil terminals and lease refined products terminals. The facilities depend on pipelines, railroads, truck transports, and storage systems that are owned and operated by third parties. Any interruption of service on pipeline, railroad or lateral connections or adverse change in the terms and conditions of service could have a material adverse effect on our ability, and the ability of our customers, to transport product to and from our facilities and have a corresponding material adverse effect on our revenues. In addition, the rates charged by the interconnected pipelines for transportation to and from our facilities impact the utilization and value of our terminals. We have historically been able to pass through the costs of pipeline transportation to our customers. However, if competing pipelines do not have similar annual tariff increases or service fee adjustments, such increases could affect our ability to compete, thereby adversely affecting our revenues.. Our marketing operations depend on the availability of transportation and storage capacity.. Our product supply is transported and stored in facilities owned and operated by third parties. Any interruption of service on the pipeline or storage companies or adverse change in the terms and conditions of service could have a material adverse effect on our ability, and the ability of our customers, to transport products and have a corresponding material adverse effect on our revenues. In addition, the rates charged by the interconnected pipelines for transportation affects the profitability of our operations.. The financial results of our natural gas liquids businesses are seasonal and generally lower in the first and second quarters of our fiscal year, which may require us to borrow money to make distributions to our unitholders during these quarters.. The natural gas liquids inventory we have presold to customers is highest during summer months, and our cash receipts are lowest during summer months. As a result, our cash available for distribution for the summer is much lower than for the winter. With lower cash flow during the first and second fiscal quarters, we may be required to borrow money to pay distributions to our unitholders during these quarters. Any restrictions on our ability to borrow money could restrict our ability to pay the minimum quarterly distributions to our unitholders.. A significant increase in fuel prices may adversely affect our transportation costs.. Fuel is a significant operating expense for us in connection with the delivery of products to our customers. A significant increase in fuel prices will result in increased transportation costs to us. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events we cannot control, such as geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and weather concerns. As a result, any increases in these prices may adversely affect our profitability and competitiveness.. Some of our operations cross the United States/Canada border and are subject to cross-border regulation.. Our cross-border activities subject us to regulatory matters, including import and export licenses, tariffs, Canadian and United States customs and tax issues, and toxic substance certifications. Such regulations include the \"Short Supply Controls\" of the Export Administration Act, the North American Free Trade Agreement and the Toxic Substances Control Act. Violations of these licensing, tariff and tax reporting requirements could result in the imposition of significant administrative, civil and criminal penalties.. The risk of terrorism and political unrest in various energy producing regions may adversely affect the economy and the price and availability of products.. An act of terror in any of the major energy producing regions of the world could potentially result in disruptions in the supply of crude oil and natural gas, which could have a material impact on both availability and price. Terrorist attacks in the areas of our operations could negatively impact our ability to transport propane to our locations. These risks could potentially negatively impact our consolidated results of operations.. 42. Table of Contents. We depend on the leadership and involvement of key personnel for the success of our businesses.. We have certain key individuals in our senior management who we believe are critical to the success of our business. The loss of leadership and involvement of those key management personnel could potentially have a material adverse impact on our business and possibly on the market value of our common units.. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us. Our partnership agreement limits the fiduciary duties of our general partner to our unitholders and restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise be breaches of fiduciary duty.. Fiduciary duties owed to our unitholders by our general partner are prescribed by law and our partnership agreement. The Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act (\"Delaware LP Act\") provides that Delaware limited partnerships may, in their partnership agreements, restrict the fiduciary duties owed by the general partner to limited partners and the partnership. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement:. • limits the liability and reduces the fiduciary duties of our general partner, while also restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without these limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. As a result of purchasing common units, our unitholders consent to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable state law;. • permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner. Examples include the exercise of its limited call right, its voting rights with respect to the units it owns and its determination whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the Partnership;. • provides that our general partner shall not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning our general partner subjectively believed that the decision was in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the Partnership;. • generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee and not involving a vote of our unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or be \"fair and reasonable\" to us and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is \"fair and reasonable,\" our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly favorable or advantageous to us; and. • provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct.. By purchasing a common unit, a common unitholder will become bound by the provisions of our partnership agreement, including the provisions described above.. Our general partner and its affiliates have conflicts of interest with us and limited fiduciary duties to our unitholders, and they may favor their own interests to the detriment of us and our unitholders.. The NGL Energy GP Investor Group owns and controls our general partner and its 0.1% general partner interest in us. Although our general partner has certain fiduciary duties to manage us in a manner beneficial to us and our unitholders, the executive officers and directors of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to its owners. Furthermore, since certain executive officers and directors of our general partner are executive officers or directors of affiliates of our general partner, conflicts of interest may arise between the NGL Energy GP Investor Group and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders (see \" - Our partnership agreement limits the fiduciary duties of our general partner to our unitholders and restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise be breaches of fiduciary duty,\" above). The risk to our unitholders due to such conflicts may arise because of the following factors, among others:. 43. Table of Contents. • our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as members of the NGL Energy GP Investor Group, in resolving conflicts of interest;. • neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires owners of our general partner to pursue a business strategy that favors us;. • except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval;. • our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities and the creation, reduction or increase of reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders;. • our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether a capital expenditure is classified as a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and to our general partner;. • our general partner determines which costs incurred by it are reimbursable by us;. • our general partner may cause us to borrow funds to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make incentive distributions;. • our partnership agreement permits us to classify up to $20.0 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non-working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus. This cash may be used to fund distributions to our general partner in respect of the general partner interest or the incentive distribution rights (\"IDRs\");. • our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf;. • our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations;. • our general partner may exercise its right to call and purchase all of the common units not owned by it and its affiliates if they own more than 80% of the common units;. • our general partner controls the enforcement of the obligations that it and its affiliates owe to us;. • our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us; and. • our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our general partner's IDRs without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner or our unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations.. In addition, certain members of the NGL Energy GP Investor Group and their affiliates currently hold interests in other companies in the energy and natural resource sectors. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will be restricted from engaging in any business activities other than acting as our general partner and those activities incidental to its ownership interest in us. However, members of the NGL Energy GP Investor Group are not prohibited from engaging in other businesses or activities, including those that might be in direct competition with us. As a result, they could potentially compete with us for acquisition opportunities and for new business or extensions of the existing services provided by us.. Pursuant to the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our general partner or any of its affiliates, including its executive officers, directors and owners. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our general partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our unitholders.. 44. Table of Contents. Even if our unitholders are dissatisfied, they have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors.. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. Unitholders will have no right on an annual or ongoing basis to elect our general partner or its board of directors. The board of directors of our general partner is chosen entirely by its members and not by our unitholders. Unlike publicly traded corporations, we will not conduct annual meetings of our unitholders to elect directors or conduct other matters routinely conducted at annual meetings of stockholders of corporations. Furthermore, if our unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have limited ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting our unitholders' ability to influence the manner or direction of management.. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units.. Unitholders' voting rights are further restricted by a provision of our partnership agreement providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their direct transferees and their indirect transferees approved by our general partner (which approval may be granted in its sole discretion) and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter.. Our general partner interest or the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without the consent of our unitholders.. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of our unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of the members of the NGL Energy GP Investor Group to transfer all or a portion of their ownership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with its own designees and thereby exert significant control over the decisions made by the board of directors and officers.. The IDRs of our general partner may be transferred to a third party.. Prior to the first day of the first quarter beginning after the 10th anniversary of the closing date of our IPO, a transfer of IDRs by our general partner requires (except in certain limited circumstances) the consent of a majority of our outstanding common units (excluding common units held by our general partner and its affiliates). However, after the expiration of this period, our general partner may transfer its IDRs to a third party at any time without the consent of our unitholders. If our general partner transfers its IDRs to a third party but retains its general partner interest, our general partner may not have the same incentive to grow our partnership and increase quarterly distributions to unitholders over time as it would if it had retained ownership of its IDRs.. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require our unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price.. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price that is not less than their then-current market price, as calculated pursuant to the terms of our partnership agreement. As a result, our unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return or may receive a negative return on their investment. Our unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units.. Cost reimbursements to our general partner may be substantial and could reduce our cash available to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders.. Prior to making any distribution on the common units, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all expenses they incur on our behalf, which will be determined by our general partner in its sole discretion in accordance with the terms of our partnership agreement. In determining the costs and expenses allocable to us, our general partner is subject to its fiduciary duty, as modified by our partnership agreement, to the limited partners, which requires it to act in good faith. These. 45. Table of Contents. expenses will include all costs incurred by our general partner and its affiliates in managing and operating us. We are managed and operated by executive officers and directors of our general partner. The reimbursement of expenses and payment of fees, if any, to our general partner and its affiliates, will reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions.. We expect that we will distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders and will rely primarily on external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, as well as reserves we have established to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. As a result, to the extent we are unable to finance growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow.. In addition, because we distribute all of our available cash, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement or the agreements governing our indebtedness on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, may impact the available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders.. We may issue additional units without the approval of our unitholders, which would dilute the interests of existing unitholders.. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. Our issuance of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects:. • our existing unitholders' proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease;. • the amount of available cash for distribution on each unit may decrease;. • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase;. • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and. • the market price of the common units may decline.. Our general partner, without the approval of our unitholders, may elect to cause us to issue common units while also maintaining its general partner interest in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to its IDRs. This could result in lower distributions to our unitholders.. Our general partner has the right to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our distributions at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election by our general partner, the minimum quarterly distribution will be adjusted to equal the reset minimum quarterly distribution and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution.. If our general partner elects to reset the target distribution levels, it will be entitled to receive a number of common units. The number of common units to be issued to our general partner will be equal to that number of common units that would have entitled their holder to an average aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the prior two quarters equal to the average of the distributions to our general partner on the IDRs in the prior two quarters. We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion. It is possible, however, that our general partner could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its IDRs and may, therefore, desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive distributions on its IDRs based on the initial target distribution levels. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions that our common unitholders would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units and general partner interests to our general partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels.. 46. Table of Contents. Our unitholders' liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business.. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our Partnership is organized under Delaware law, and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. You could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if you were a general partner if a court or government agency were to determine that:. • we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state's partnership statute; or. • a unitholder's right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace our general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute \"control\" of our business.. Our unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them.. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware LP Act, we may not make a distribution to our unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of an impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Substituted limited partners are liable both for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership that were known to the substituted limited partner at the time it became a limited partner and for those obligations that were unknown if the liabilities could have been determined from the partnership agreement. Neither liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests nor liabilities that are nonrecourse to the partnership are counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. For the purpose of determining the fair value of the assets of a limited partnership, the Delaware LP Act provides that the fair value of property subject to liability for which recourse of creditors is limited shall be included in the assets of the limited partnership only to the extent that the fair value of that property exceeds the nonrecourse liability.. The 10.75% Class A Convertible Preferred Units (\"Class A Preferred Units\") and 9.00% Class B Fixed-to-Floating Rate Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Units (\"Class B Preferred Units\") (collectively the \"Preferred Units\") give the holders thereof liquidation and distribution preferences over our common unitholders.. In June 2016, we issued 19,942,169 Class A Preferred Units and in June 2017, we issued 8,400,000 Class B Preferred Units, which rank senior to the common units with respect to distribution rights and rights upon liquidation. Subject to certain exceptions, as long as any Preferred Units remain outstanding, we may not declare any distribution on our common units unless all accumulated and unpaid distributions have been declared and paid on the Preferred Units. In the event of our liquidation, winding-up or dissolution, the holders of the Preferred Units would have the right to receive proceeds from any such transaction before the holders of the common units. The payment of the liquidation preference could result in common unitholders not receiving any consideration if we were to liquidate, dissolve or wind up, either voluntarily or involuntarily. Additionally, the existence of the liquidation preference may reduce the value of the common units, make it harder for us to sell common units in offerings in the future, or prevent or delay a change of control.. The Class A Preferred Units give the holders thereof certain rights relating to our business and management, and the ability to convert such units into our common units, potentially causing dilution to our common unitholders.. In connection with the issuance of the Class A Preferred Units, we entered into an agreement with Oaktree Capital Management L.P. (\"Oaktree\") pursuant to which we granted them the right to appoint one member to the board of directors of our general partner. In addition, the holders of the Class A Preferred Units have the right to vote, under certain conditions, on an as-converted basis with our common unitholders on matters submitted to a unitholder vote. Also, as long as any Class A Preferred Units are outstanding, subject to certain exceptions, the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least a majority of the outstanding Class A Preferred Units, voting together as a separate class, will be necessary for effecting or validating, among other things: (i) any action to be taken that adversely affects any of the rights, preferences or privileges of the Class A Preferred Units, (ii) amending the terms of the Class A Preferred Units, (iii) the issuance of any additional Class A Preferred Units or equity security senior in right of distribution or in liquidation to the Class A Preferred Units, (iv) any issuance of preferred equity securities by any of our consolidated controlled subsidiaries of any issued or authorized amount of, any specific class or series of securities, (v) any issuance by us of parity units, subject to certain exceptions and (vi) the ability to incur funded indebtedness for borrowed money if pro forma for such incurrence, the leverage ratio (as defined in the Credit. 47. Table of Contents. Agreement) would exceed 5.50. These restrictions may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities.. Furthermore, the conversion of the Class A Preferred Units into common units, as early as three years from the issuance date of the Class A Preferred Units, may cause substantial dilution to holders of the common units. Because the board of directors of our general partner is entitled to designate the powers and preferences of Class A Preferred Units without a vote of our unitholders, subject to New York Stock Exchange rules and regulations, our unitholders will have no control over what designations and preferences our future preferred units, if any, will have.. The issuance of common units upon exercise of the warrants may cause dilution to existing common unitholders and may place downward pressure on the trading price of our common units.. In connection with our issuance of Class A Preferred Units in June 2016, we issued warrants exercisable into a maximum of 4,375,112 common units, with an exercise price of $0.01 per common unit. One-third of the warrants are exercisable beginning on or after the first anniversary of the original issue date, another one-third of the warrant units from and after the second anniversary of the original issue date and the final one-third may be converted from and after the third anniversary. The future exercise of the warrants by the holders of those securities may cause a reduction in the relative voting power and percentage ownership interests of our other common unitholders, and may place downward pressure on the trading price of our common units.. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders. Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We could lose our status as a partnership for a number of reasons, including not having enough \"qualifying income.\" If the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced.. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes.. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, a publicly traded partnership such as us will be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes unless, for each taxable year, 90% or more of its gross income is \"qualifying income\" under Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Internal Revenue Code\"). \"Qualifying income\" includes income and gains derived from the exploration, development, production, processing, transportation, storage and marketing of natural gas, natural gas products, and crude oil or other passive types of income such as certain interest and dividends and gains from the sale or other disposition of capital assets held for the production of income that otherwise constitutes qualifying income. Although we do not believe based upon our current operations that we are treated as a corporation, we could be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject to taxation as an entity if our gross income is not properly classified as qualifying income, there is a change in our business or there is a change in current law.. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently 21% (changed from 35% under the recently enacted tax reform law), and would likely pay state and local income tax at varying rates. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate dividends (to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits), and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the market value of our common units.. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us.. 48. Table of Contents. Our unitholders may be subject to limitation on their ability to deduct interest expense incurred by us.. In general, our unitholders are entitled to a deduction for the interest we have paid or accrued on indebtedness properly allocable to our business during our taxable year. However, under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"Act\") signed into law by the President of the United States on December 22, 2017, beginning in tax year 2018, the deductibility of net interest expense is limited to 30% of our adjusted taxable income. For tax years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2022, the Act calculates adjusted taxable income using an EBITDA-based calculation. For tax years beginning January 1, 2022 and thereafter, the calculation of adjusted taxable income will not add back depreciation or amortization. Any disallowed business interest expense is then generally carried forward as a deduction in a succeeding taxable year at the partner level. These limitations might cause interest expense to be deducted by our unitholders in a later period than recognized in the GAAP financial statements.. If we were subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation by individual states, it would reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. Changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states. Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of any such taxes may substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to entity-level taxation, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us.. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis.. The present income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, from time to time, members of Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing United States federal income tax laws that affect the tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including as a result of any fundamental tax reform.. We are unable to predict whether any such change or other proposals will ultimately be enacted or will affect our tax treatment. Any modification to the income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively and could, among other things, cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. Moreover, such modifications and change in interpretations may affect or cause us to change our business activities, affect the tax considerations of an investment in us, change the character or treatment of portions of our income and adversely affect an investment in our common units. Although we are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will ultimately be enacted, any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units.. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take and such positions may not ultimately be sustained. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution.. 49. Table of Contents. If the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after 2017, it may collect any resulting taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from us, in which case our cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be substantially reduced.. Pursuant to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, if the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after 2017, it may collect any resulting taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from us. We will generally have the ability to shift any such tax liability to our general partner and our unitholders in accordance with their interests in us during the year under audit, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so under all circumstances. If we are required to make payments of taxes, penalties and interest resulting from audit adjustments, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be substantially reduced.. Our unitholders will be required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us.. Because we expect to be treated as a partnership for United States federal income tax purposes, our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income that could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, our unitholders will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income even if they receive no cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income.. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected.. If unitholders sell their common units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of the unitholder's allocable share of our net taxable income decrease the unitholder's tax basis in their common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units the unitholder sells will, in effect, become taxable income to the unitholder if they sell such units at a price greater than their tax basis in those units, even if the price they receive is less than their original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized on any sale of common units, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if a unitholder sell units, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale.. Tax exempt entities and non-United States persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.. Investment in common units by tax exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans, individual retirement accounts (\"IRAs\"), Keogh plans and other retirement plans and non-United States persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-United States persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-United States persons will be required to file United States federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax exempt entity or a non-United States person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our common units.. We treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the market value of the common units.. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. Any position we take that is inconsistent with applicable Treasury Regulations may have to be disclosed on our federal income tax return. This disclosure increases the likelihood that the IRS will challenge our positions and propose adjustments to some or all of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the market value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to tax returns of unitholders.. We have subsidiaries that are treated as corporations for federal income tax purposes and subject to corporate level income taxes.. We conduct a portion of our operations through subsidiaries that are corporations for federal income tax purposes. We may elect to conduct additional operations in corporate form in the future. Our corporate subsidiaries will be subject to. 50. Table of Contents. corporate level tax, which will reduce the cash available for distribution to us and, in turn, to our unitholders. If the IRS or other state or local jurisdictions were to successfully assert that our corporate subsidiaries have more tax liability than we anticipate or legislation was enacted that increased the corporate tax rate, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be further reduced.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for United States federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based on the ownership of our units on the first business day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based on the ownership of our units on the first business day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The U.S. Department of the Treasury recently adopted final Treasury Regulations allowing a similar monthly simplifying convention for taxable years beginning on or after August 3, 2015. However, such regulations do not specifically authorize all aspects of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. A unitholder whose units are loaned to a \"short seller\" to effect a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, such unitholder would no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize a gain or loss from the disposition.. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a \"short seller\" to effect a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those common units, the unitholder would no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize a gain or loss from the disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to consult a tax advisor to discuss whether it is advisable to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units.. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies and monthly conventions for United States federal income tax purposes that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner and our unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units.. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we will determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our current valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of taxable income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and certain of our unitholders.. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of taxable gain from our unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions.. There are limits on the deductibility of our losses that may adversely affect our unitholders.. There are a number of limitations that may prevent unitholders from using their allocable share of our losses as a deduction against unrelated income. In cases where our unitholders are subject to the passive loss rules (generally, individuals and closely held corporations), any losses generated by us will only be available to offset our future income and cannot be used to offset income from other activities, including other passive activities or investments. Unused losses may be deducted when the unitholder disposes of its entire investment in us in a fully taxable transaction with an unrelated party. A unitholder's share of our net passive income may be offset by unused losses from us carried over from prior years but not by losses from other passive activities, including losses from other publicly traded partnerships. Other limitations that may further restrict the. 51. Table of Contents. deductibility of our losses by a unitholder include the at-risk rules and the prohibition against loss allocations in excess of the unitholder's tax basis in its units.. Purchasers of our common units may become subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire properties.. In addition to federal income taxes, holders of our common units are subject to other taxes, including foreign, state and local income taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own or control property now or in the future. Holders of our common units are required to file foreign, state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions and may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We own assets and conduct business in a number of states, most of which impose a personal income tax on individuals. Most of these states also impose an income tax on corporations and other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own or control assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax."
