[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our operations are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those described below. If any of these risks occur, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the value of our common stock could decline substantially.. Because we have a limited number of government contracts, the termination or non-renewal of certain of these contracts may harm our business.. Currently, we have 27 contracts through which we provide enterprise-wide outsourced portal services to state governments. These contracts typically have multi-year terms with provisions for renewals for various periods at the option of the government. In addition, we have a limited number of other contracts with government agencies through which we provide outsourced portal services, software development and digital government services.. A government typically has the option to terminate its contract prior to the expiration date if we breach a material contractual obligation and fail to cure such breach within a specified period or upon the occurrence of other events or circumstances specified in our contracts.. In addition, we currently have 15 contracts under which we provide outsourced portal and digital government services, as well as our contract with the FMCSA, that can be terminated by the other party without cause upon a specified period of notice. Collectively, revenues generated from these contracts represented approximately 61% of our total consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017.  If any of these contracts are terminated without cause, the terms of the respective contract may require the government to pay us a fee in order to continue to use our applications in its portal.. We currently have nine contracts under which we provide outsourced portal and digital government services, as well as our contract with the FMCSA, that have expiration dates within the 12-month period following December 31, 2017. Although certain of these contracts have renewal provisions, any renewal is at the option of our government partners, who may choose to not renew the contract, to re-open bidding for the services, to take over the portal in place and provide services internally, or to allow individual government agencies to retain the services of their own providers. Collectively, revenues generated from these contracts represented approximately 43% of our total consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017. If a contract expires after a defined term, the government partner would be entitled to take over the portal in place, and NIC would have no future revenue from, or obligation to, such former government partner, except as otherwise provided in the contract.. 13. The loss of a contract with one or more government partners, as a result of the expiration, termination, or failure to renew the contract, if not replaced, could significantly reduce our revenues and profitability. If these revenue shortfalls were to occur, our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition would be harmed. We cannot be certain if, when, or to what extent, governments might fail to renew or terminate any or all of their contracts with us.  As previously disclosed, NIC has been informed by representatives of the state of Texas that our subsidiary, Texas NICUSA, has been selected to negotiate a contract to provide the payment processing services set forth in the Texas RFO, and that Texas NICUSA has not been selected to negotiate a contract to provide the portal operations, maintenance and development services set forth in the Texas RFO.  Because the procurement process has not been completed, the ultimate outcome of the process is subject to many risks and uncertainties, including the outcome of negotiations between the state of Texas, NIC and other participants and the final determinations made by the state of Texas. The current agreement between the state of Texas and Texas NICUSA expires on August 31, 2018. The Texas portal accounted for approximately 20% of our total consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017.. Security breaches or unauthorized access to payment information, including credit/debit card data, and/or personal information that we or our service providers store, process, use or transmit for our business may harm our reputation, cause service disruptions and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. A significant challenge to electronic commerce is the secure transmission of payment information and/or personal information over information technology networks and systems which process, transmit and store electronic information, and manage or support a variety of business processes. The collection, maintenance, use, disclosure, and disposal of payment information and personal information by our businesses are regulated at state and federal levels, and cybersecurity legislation, executive orders and reporting requirements continue to evolve and become more complex. Because we either directly or indirectly through service providers (i) provide the electronic transmission of sensitive and personal information released from and filed with various government entities and (ii) perform online payment and electronic check processing services, we face the risk of a security breach, whether through system attacks, hacking events, acts of vandalism or theft, malware, viruses, human errors, catastrophes or other unforeseen events that could lead to significant disruptions or compromises of information technology networks and systems or the unauthorized release or use of payment information or personal information. Additionally, vulnerabilities in the security of our own internal systems or those of our service providers could compromise the confidentiality of, or result in unauthorized access to, personal information of our employees.. We rely on encryption and authentication technology purchased or licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication tools to effectively secure transmission of confidential information, including user credit/debit card information and banking data. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, threats that evolve ahead of tools designed to counter them, or other developments may result in the breach or compromise of technology used by us to protect transaction data. Data breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues, such as so-called \"social engineering.\". Despite the various security measures we have in place to protect payment and personal information from unauthorized disclosure and to comply with applicable laws and regulations, our information technology networks and systems and those of our third-party vendors and service providers cannot be made completely secure against security incidents. Even the most well protected information, networks, systems, and facilities remain vulnerable to security breaches or disruptions, because (i) the techniques used in such attempts are constantly evolving and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not to be detected and, in fact, may not be detected for an extended period and (ii) the security methodologies, protocols, systems and procedures used for protection are implemented by humans at each level, and human errors may occur. Accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, or if such measures are implemented, and even if appropriate training is conducted in support of such measures, human errors may still occur. It is impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. A party, whether internal or external, who is able to circumvent our security measures, or those of our service providers, could misappropriate information, including, but not limited to payment information and personal information, or cause interruptions or direct damage to our partners or their users.. Under payment card rules and our contracts with our credit card processors, if there is a breach of payment card information that we store, process, or transmit, we could be subject to fines.  We could also be liable to partners for costs of investigation, notification, remediation and credit monitoring and for any damages to users under applicable laws or our partner contracts.. 14. In addition, any noncompliance with privacy laws or a security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized access, use or disclosure of payment information or personal information, or other significant disruption involving our information technology networks and systems, or those of our service providers (whether or not caused by a breach of our contractual obligations or our negligence), may lead to negative publicity, impair our ability to conduct our business, subject us to private litigation and government investigations and enforcement actions and cause us to incur potentially significant liability, damages or remediation costs. It may also cause the governments with whom we contract to lose confidence in us, any of which may cause the termination or modification of our government contracts and impair our ability to win future contracts. Actual or anticipated attacks and risks affecting our own, our service providers' or our government partners' environment may cause us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, to train employees, and to engage third-party security experts and consultants. Although we maintain insurance coverage that, subject to policy terms and conditions and subject to a retention, is designed to address certain aspects of security and privacy liability, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover or protect against the costs, liabilities, and other adverse effects arising from a security breach or system disruption. If we fail to reasonably maintain the security of confidential information, we may also suffer significant reputational and financial losses and our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, and liquidity may be adversely affected.. If we are unable to meet the unique challenges involved in contracting with governments and government agencies, our business may be harmed.. Our revenues are generated principally from contracts with state governments and government agencies within a state, and to a lesser extent with federal government agencies, to provide digital government services on behalf of those government entities to complete transactions and distribute public information digitally. We face many risks uniquely associated with government contracting, including:. • regulations that govern the fees we collect for many of our services, limiting our control over the level of transaction-based fees we are permitted to retain;. • the potential need for governments to draft and adopt specific legislation before they can circulate a request for proposal (\"RFP\") to which we can respond or before they can otherwise award a contract or provide a new digital service, and the risk that enabling legislation previously adopted to set up our portal or otherwise to our benefit could be challenged, reinterpreted, repealed or modified;. • unexpected changes in legislation that increase our costs or result in a temporary or permanent suspension of our services;. • the potential need for changes to legislation authorizing government's contracting with third parties to receive or distribute public information;. • long and complex sales cycles that vary significantly according to each government entity's policies and procedures;. • political resistance to the concept of government agencies contracting with third parties to receive or distribute public information, which has been offered traditionally only by the government agencies and often without charge;. • changes in government administrations that could impact existing RFPs, rebids, renewals or extensions; and. • government budget deficits and appropriation approval processes and periods, either of which could cause governments to curtail spending on services, including time and materials-based fees for application development or fixed fees for portal management, which constituted approximately 3% and 2% of portal revenues, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2017.. Each of these risks is outside of our control and could result in harm to our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition.. Because many of our contracts grant our government partners fully paid, perpetual licenses to use and modify certain applications and digital government services we develop, upon a termination by them for cause or the natural expiration of our portal contracts, many of our government partners could elect to take over the operation and maintenance of our. 15. applications themselves, or hire a competitor to operate and maintain such applications. Any such decision to do so could adversely affect our revenues and profits.. After termination for cause or the natural expiration of our portal contracts, it is possible that governments and their contractors may operate the portals themselves using the perpetual use license we typically are contractually obligated to provide to them. This license generally permits the government to use and modify the applications and digital government services we have developed for them in the operation of their portals on a perpetual, royalty-free basis (excluding certain proprietary applications that we provide on a SaaS basis including certain customer management, billing and payment processing applications that we have developed and standardized centrally). This perpetual use license could make it easier and more cost effective for our government partners to elect not to enter into a new contract with us after the expiration of one of our portal contracts. Any such election could adversely affect our revenues and profits. Additionally, anyone using our applications and digital government services may inadvertently allow our intellectual property or other information to fall into the hands of third parties, including our competitors. If a contract is terminated prior to the natural expiration of the term without cause, the terms of the respective contract typically require the government to pay a fee to us in order to continue to use our applications in its portal.. Our ability to grow revenues may be limited by the number of governments and government agencies that choose to provide digital government solutions using our business model and by the finite number of governments with which we may contract for our digital government solutions.. Our revenues are generated principally from contracts with state governments and government agencies within a state to provide digital government solutions on behalf of those government entities to complete transactions and distribute public information digitally. The growth in our revenues largely depends on government entities adopting our business model. We cannot ensure that government entities will choose to provide digital government services or continue to provide digital government services at current levels, or that they will provide such services with private assistance or by adopting our model. Generally, under our enterprise-wide transaction-based business model, we initially generate a high proportion of our revenues from the transaction-based services we provide on behalf of a limited number of government agencies within a state, while other agencies consider participating in the portal. If any of our partner agencies within a state are dissatisfied with even one of the many services we provide, it may negatively affect our ability to convince additional agencies to partner with us or retain our enterprise agreement. The failure to secure contracts with certain government agencies, particularly those agencies that control motor vehicle driver history records, could result in revenue levels insufficient to support a portal's operations on a self-sustained, profitable basis.. In addition, because there is a finite number of states remaining with which we can contract for our services, future increases in our revenues may depend, in part, on our ability to expand our business model to include multi-state cooperative organizations, local governments, and federal agencies and also to broaden our service offerings to diversify our revenue streams across our lines of business. We cannot ensure that we will succeed in expanding into new markets or broadening our service offerings, or that our services will be adaptable to those new markets.. We earn a significant percentage of our revenues and related accounts receivable from a limited number of services and customers. Any reduction in demand for those services or negative trends in the businesses of those customers could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We earn a high proportion of our revenues and related accounts receivable from a limited number of services and customers. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from data resellers' use of our portals to access motor vehicle driver history records for the automobile insurance industry. Transaction-based fees charged for access to motor vehicle driver history records in various states accounted for approximately 31% of our total consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017. One of these data resellers, LexisNexis Risk Solutions, accounted for approximately 19% of our total consolidated revenues during this period, or approximately three-quarters of our revenues from motor vehicle driver history records. In addition, approximately 16% of our consolidated accounts receivable were from LexusNexis Risk Solutions at December 31, 2017. While fees charged for access to motor vehicle driver history records are currently expected to continue to account for a significant portion of our consolidated revenues for the foreseeable future, regulatory changes or the development or increased use of alternative information sources, such as credit scoring, could materially reduce our revenues from this service. Our contracts with data resellers generally may be terminated at any time after a 30-day notice and may be terminated. 16. immediately at the option of any party in certain circumstances. Furthermore, our credit risk may increase in the event any data resellers experience liquidity or solvency issues. We generally do not require collateral to secure accounts receivable.. In addition, our Texas portal accounted for approximately 20% of our total consolidated revenues during this period.  As previously disclosed, NIC has been informed by representatives of the state of Texas that our subsidiary, Texas NICUSA, has been selected to negotiate a contract to provide the payment processing services set forth in the Texas RFO, and that Texas NICUSA has not been selected to negotiate a contract to provide the portal operations, maintenance and development services set forth in the Texas RFO.  Because the procurement process has not been completed, the ultimate outcome of the process is subject to many risks and uncertainties, including the outcome of negotiations between the state of Texas, NIC and other participants and the final determinations made by the state of Texas. The current agreement between the state of Texas and Texas NICUSA expires on August 31, 2018.. A reduction in revenues from currently popular services or an inability to collect a major portion of our accounts receivable would harm our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition, and our liquidity may be adversely affected.. We could suffer significant losses and liability if our or our service providers' operations, systems or platforms are disrupted or fail to perform properly or effectively.. The continued efficiency and proper functionality of our or our service providers' technical systems, platforms, and operational infrastructure is integral to our performance. As we grow, we continue to purchase equipment and upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle increased traffic on the digital portals we operate. We may experience occasional system interruptions and delays that make digital government services unavailable or slow to respond and prevent businesses and citizens from accessing information and services on the digital portals we operate. Any such interruptions or delays in the future could cause users to stop visiting the digital portals we operate and could cause our government partners to penalize us financially or terminate agreements with us. Our operations, systems and platforms, or those of our service providers, may also be disrupted or fail due to catastrophic events such as natural disasters, telecommunications failures, power outages, cyber-attacks, terrorist attacks, acts of war or other catastrophic events. If any of these circumstances occurred, our business could be harmed.. The majority of our portal infrastructure and applications are hosted at leased data centers operated by a third-party on servers we own, with a near real-time backup at a similar facility in a different geographic region of the country. Some of our portal infrastructure and applications are physically hosted in each jurisdiction in which we operate on servers that we own or lease, or in a third-party provided cloud environment. Data center servers are virtually segmented by government partner while housing more than one government partner's services. An outage in one of the servers hosted outside one of the data centers could affect that government partner's services. An outage at both of our leased data centers, or at one data center and to the connection to our backup facility, could affect more than one government partner's services. Any of these system failures could harm our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. Our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to any failures of or interruptions in our systems.. Our business will be adversely affected if we are unable to hire, integrate, train, or retain the qualified personnel needed to operate our business.. Our future success will depend, in part, on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees, most of whom have extensive experience with us and in our industry. The loss of any of our executives or key employees, even with an adequate succession plan, could harm our business. In addition, we may need to hire personnel for new operations in jurisdictions in which we may obtain contracts. We may not be able to retain our current key employees or attract, integrate, or retain other qualified employees in the future. If we do not succeed in attracting new personnel, particularly in the competitive market for information technology professionals, or succeed in integrating, retaining, and motivating our current personnel, our business could be harmed. In addition, new employees generally require substantial training in the presentation, policies, and positioning of our government portals and other services. This training will require substantial resources and management attention.. 17. Increases in credit/debit card association and automated clearing house fees may result in lower transaction volumes and/or a reduction in our earnings.. From time to time, credit/debit card and electronic check processors increase the fees (interchange and assessment fees) that they charge companies such as us. We could attempt to pass these increases along to citizens and businesses, but this might result in the loss of those customers or lower transaction volumes. If we elect not to pass along such increased fees to citizens and businesses in the future, we may have to absorb all or a portion of such increases thereby increasing our operating costs and reducing our earnings.. We depend on third parties, including subcontractors and prime contractors with whom we engage or collaborate for certain projects, deliverables, and/or financial transaction processes. If these parties fail to satisfy their obligations to us or we are unable to maintain these relationships, our operating results and business prospects could be adversely affected.. To satisfy our obligations under contracts, we often engage third parties, including subcontractors, to fulfill certain requirements. We also use third parties to ensure that our services and solutions integrate with the software, systems, or infrastructure requirements of other vendors and service providers. Our ability to serve our clients and deliver our solutions in a timely manner depends on our ability to retain and maintain relationships with subcontractors, vendors, and service providers and the ability of these third parties to meet their obligations in a timely manner, as well as on our effective oversight of their performance. If any third-party fails to perform on a timely basis the agreed-upon services, our ability to fulfill our obligations may be jeopardized. Third-party performance deficiencies could result in the termination of our contract for default. A termination for default could expose us to liability for damages and have an adverse effect on our business prospects, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition and our ability to compete for future contracts and orders.. In addition, we may act as subcontractor to a third-party prime contractor to secure new projects. Subcontracting arrangements where we are not the prime contractor pose unique risks to us because we may not have control over the customer relationship, and our ability to generate revenue under such subcontracts may depend on the prime contractor, its performance and relationship with the customer, and its relationship with us. We could suffer losses in the event a prime contract under which we serve as a subcontractor is terminated, whether for non-performance by the prime contractor or otherwise. Upon a termination of the prime contract, our subcontract would similarly terminate, and the resulting contract loss could have an adverse effect on our business prospects, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition and our ability to compete for future contracts and orders.. Potential future acquisitions involve inherent risks that may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.. To expand our operations and grow our market and client base, we may seek and complete strategic acquisitions and other business combinations in the future. Acquisitions have inherent risks which may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In particular,. • The pursuit of acquisitions and execution of integration plans may divert the attention of our management from other key responsibilities;. • We may fail to successfully integrate the business and financial operations, business culture, services, intellectual property, solutions or personnel of an acquired business;. • We may assume unanticipated liabilities and contingencies;. • We may substantially reduce our cash position, become significantly leveraged as a result of incurring debt or issue additional equity to finance one or more acquisitions; and. • Our earnings per share may be diluted as a result of acquisitions.. If we fail to identify suitable potential acquisition candidates, fail to successfully integrate acquired businesses or to fail to implement our business strategies with respect to these acquisitions, we may not be able to achieve projected results or. 18. support the amount of consideration paid for such acquired businesses, and our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.. We may become subject to liability under rules and standards for processing electronic direct debit payments from bank accounts and credit card payments.. We are required to comply with the Payment Card Industry's Data Security Standards (\"PCI DSS\") and the rules and standards promulgated by the National Automated Clearing House Association (\"NACHA\") because we provide online payment and electronic check processing services. We may become potentially liable if we fail to handle transactions in accordance with these rules, or for failing to return funds within the prescribed time frame to the bank account of the person or entity disputing our authorization to debit those funds, before the dispute regarding our authorization is resolved. Our agreements with governmental agencies at the federal, state, and local levels transfer this obligation for rapid funds return during dispute resolution to the government agencies affected, but in the event that such return does not happen, we may be potentially liable notwithstanding the government's failure, and we may not be able to obtain reimbursement from the government involved or from the individual user or entity that initiated the debit without authorization. If this were to happen, our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our credit card and electronic check processing is also subject to the applicable rules of the particular card association or clearinghouse and applicable law. Additionally, in certain jurisdictions we are or may become subject to laws governing money transmitters and anti-money laundering for certain services we offer. If our interpretations, or those of our government partners, of any laws, rules, regulations, or standards are determined to be incorrect, we could be exposed to significant financial liability, substantial fines and penalties, cease and desist orders, and other sanctions that could restrict or eliminate our ability to provide certain of our services in one or more states or accept certain types of transactions in one or more states, or could force us to make costly changes to our business practices. If we were unable to accept payment cards or process checks electronically, our business would be negatively impacted. Even if we are not forced to change our business practices, the costs of compliance and obtaining necessary licenses and regulatory approvals could be substantial.. We may become liable for violations of the Driver Privacy Protection Act as adopted federally or in each state.. We act as an outsourced manager on behalf of states, for electronic access to records pertaining to motor vehicles and motor vehicle operators (driver history records) by users and certain permitted resellers. These records are the largest group of records for which we process electronic access for state agencies, and are processed in most of our portal states. These records contain \"personal information\" and \"sensitive personal information\" as defined by the federal Driver Privacy Protection Act, and state versions of that Act adopted in every state (collectively, the \"DPPA\"). The DPPA regulates categories and circumstances under which \"personal information\" and \"sensitive personal information\" may be disclosed to requesters. Each state has procedures for complying with the DPPA, and such procedures may vary from state to state. We closely follow each state's existing compliance procedures for general access, with our electronic access. If we fail to follow such procedures, or we grant access to users not in compliance with such procedures, or if such procedures are deemed inadequate in some way, our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition may be adversely affected. The DPPA permits statutory damages to be awarded to the subjects of such records, even without proof of actual damage, for certain infringements or violations of the DPPA. We may be potentially liable for such damages in such instances, and we may have no recourse against the state.. We may become liable for violations of certain federal laws applicable to our federal PSP service or other services.. Our PSP service for the FMCSA requires that PSP record data be disclosed in compliance with the Fair Credit Reporting Act (\"FCRA\") and the Safe, Accountable, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (\"SAFETEA-LU\"). We may also have other online services that are or become subject to the FCRA and/or SAFETEA-LU. If we fail to follow such procedures, or we grant access to users not in compliance with such procedures, or if such procedures are deemed inadequate in some way, we may become subject to monetary fines, penalties or damages, and our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition may be adversely affected. The FCRA and SAFETEA-LU permit statutory damages to be awarded to the subjects of such records, even without proof of actual damage, for certain infringements or violations. In addition, any failure to comply with the FCRA, SAFETEA-LU or other federal laws may result in reputational damage.. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance, public disclosure and other regulatory requirements or industry standards may result in additional expenses.. 19. Changing laws, regulations, and standards relating to corporate governance, public disclosure and other regulatory requirements or industry standards, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, new SEC regulations and the Nasdaq Stock Market rules create uncertainty for public companies such as ours. These laws, regulations, and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining adequate and appropriate standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations, and standards have resulted in, and certain regulations could continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Further, because of increasing regulation, our board members and executive officers could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations, and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities in the laws themselves or related to practice, our reputation may be harmed.. If our competitors become more successful in developing and selling products for government-managed services, then our business could be adversely affected.. The principal alternative to our model is a government-designed and managed service that utilizes other vendors' technologies, products, and services. Companies that have expertise in marketing and providing online services to government entities compete with us by further developing their services and increasing their focus on this area of their businesses. To the extent we are able to continue to expand our services in existing states and our contracts become more profitable, the competition in our markets may increase. Many of our potential competitors are national or international in scope and have greater resources than we do. These resources could enable our potential competitors to offer lower prices or take other measures to gain market share. Additionally, in some geographic areas, we may face competition from smaller consulting firms with established reputations and political relationships with potential government partners. If we do not compete effectively or if we experience any pricing pressures, reduced profit margins or loss of market share, our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition may be adversely affected.. We may be unable to integrate new technologies and industry standards effectively, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our future success will depend on our ability to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality, and features of our services in accordance with industry standards and to address the increasingly sophisticated technological needs of our customers on a cost-effective and timely basis. Our ability to remain competitive will depend, in part, on our ability to:. • enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality, and other features of the government services we offer;. • continue to develop our technical expertise;. • develop and introduce new services, applications, and technology to meet changing customer needs and preferences; and. • influence and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes in a timely and cost-effective manner.. We cannot ensure that we will be successful in responding to the above technological and industry challenges in a timely and cost-effective manner. If we are unable to integrate new technologies and industry standards effectively, our business could be harmed.. Our intellectual property rights are valuable and any inability to protect them could harm our company.. 20. We regard our intellectual property as important to our success. We rely on a combination of nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements and policies with governments, our employees, prime contractors, subcontractors, vendors and other third parties, copyrights and privacy and trade secret laws to protect and limit the distribution of the proprietary applications, documentation and processes we have developed in connection with the services we offer. Despite our precautions, third parties may succeed in misappropriating our intellectual property or independently developing similar intellectual property. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights and proprietary information, if we utilize open source software in a manner that places proprietary source code in the public domain, or if we become involved in litigation relating to our intellectual property rights and proprietary technology, our business could be harmed. Any actions we take may not be adequate to protect our proprietary rights, and other companies may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our proprietary technology.. Because we have certain outsourced portal contracts that contain indemnification provisions, we may suffer monetary liability and damages if claims arise under such contracts. In addition, any failure to meet our obligations under a contract, whether or not there is a claim for which we are liable, may result in reputational damage.. Performance deficiencies by us or our third-party vendors, including subcontractors, could result in a default under one or more of our contracts, which could expose us to liability and have an adverse effect on our business prospects, on our financial condition, and on our ability to compete for future outsourced portal contracts. Further, under certain of our outsourced portal contracts, we are required to fully indemnify our government partners against claims arising from our performance or the performance of our third-party vendors, including subcontractors. If we fail to meet our contractual obligations, if our performance or our third-party vendors' performance gives rise to claims, if our government partners are otherwise held liable for claims related to the services provided under our contracts, or if our government partners seek to hold us liable for claims or damages related to the services provided under our contracts, we could be subject to legal liability, monetary damages and loss of customer relationships. Additionally, in many of our contracts, our government partners do not indemnify us from losses related to their performance or non-performance.. Our business will suffer if we lose the right to provide access to the content filed or distributed through our outsourced portals or we are held liable for the content that we pass to users from government entities.. We do not own or create the content filed or distributed through the government portals we operate. We depend on the governments with which we contract to supply information and data feeds to us on a timely basis to allow businesses and citizens to complete transactions and obtain government information. We cannot ensure that these data sources will continue to be available in the future. Government entities could terminate their contracts to provide data. Changes in regulations could mean that governments no longer collect some types of data or that the data is protected by more stringent privacy rules preventing uses now made of it. Moreover, our data sources are not always subject to exclusive agreements, so that data included in our services also may be included in those of our potential competitors. In addition, we depend upon the accuracy and reliability of government computer systems and data collection for the content distributed through the portals we operate. The loss, unavailability, or inaccuracy of our data sources in the future, or the loss of our exclusive right to distribute some of the data sources, could harm our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition.. Because we aggregate and digitally distribute private and sensitive public information, we may face potential liability for defamation, libel, negligence, invasion of privacy, and other claims based on the nature and content of the material that is published on or distributed through the government portals we operate. Most of the agreements through which we obtain consent to disseminate this information do not contain indemnity provisions in our favor. These types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against online services and websites in the past. We cannot ensure that our insurance will be adequate to reimburse us for all liability that may be imposed. Any liability that is not covered by our insurance or is in excess of our insurance coverage could severely harm our business operations and financial condition.. We may need more working capital to fund operations and expand our business, and any failure to obtain such needed working capital would adversely affect our business.. Although we believe that our current financial resources and future cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our present working capital and capital expenditure requirements and potential dividend payments for at least the next 12 months, we may need to raise additional capital before this period ends to further:. 21. • fund operations, if unforeseen costs or revenue shortfalls arise;. • support our expansion into other states and federal government agencies beyond what is contemplated if unforeseen opportunities arise;. • expand our product and service offerings beyond what is contemplated if unforeseen opportunities arise;. • fund acquisitions;. • respond to unforeseen competitive pressures; and. • acquire technologies beyond what is contemplated.. Our future liquidity and capital requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including the success of our existing and new service offerings and potentially competing technological and market developments. However, any projections of future cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. If current cash, lines of credit, and cash generated from operations are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity securities, issue debt securities, or draw on the unused portion of our line of credit. If we need to obtain new debt or equity financing in the future, the terms and availability of such financing may be impacted by economic and financial market conditions, as well as our financial condition and results of operations at the time we seek additional financing. The sale of additional equity securities could result in dilution to our stockholders. From time to time, we expect to evaluate the acquisition of or investment in businesses and technologies that complement our various digital government businesses. Acquisitions or investments might affect our liquidity requirements or cause us to sell additional equity securities or issue debt securities. There can be no assurance that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If adequate funds were not available on acceptable terms, our ability to develop or enhance our applications and services, take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. This limitation could harm our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition.. Our quarterly results of operations may be volatile and difficult to predict. If our quarterly results of operations, future growth, profitability or dividends fail to meet the expectations of public market analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock may decrease significantly.. Our future revenues and results of operations may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, and any of which may harm our business. These factors include:. • the commencement, completion, or termination of contracts during any quarter;. • the introduction of new services by us or our competitors;. • technical difficulties or system downtime affecting the operation of our services;. • the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to the expansion of our business operations and infrastructure;. • unexpected changes in federal, state and local legislation that increase our costs and/or result in a temporary or permanent decrease in our revenues;. • the seasonal use of some of our services, particularly the accessing of motor vehicle driver history records;. • changes in economic conditions;. • the result of negative cash flows due to capital investments; and. • significant charges related to acquisitions.. Due to the factors noted above and the other factors described in these Risk Factors, our financial performance in a quarter may be lower than we anticipate and if we are unable to reduce spending in that quarter, our results of operations for that quarter may be harmed. One should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of future performance. It is possible that in some future periods our results of operations may be below the expectations of. 22. public market analysts and investors. If this occurs, the price of our common stock may decline. In addition, if we fail to meet expectations related to future growth, profitability, dividends or other market expectations, the price of our common stock may decline.. Our payment of dividends in the future is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and any failure to pay dividends in the future or any reduction in the amount of future dividend payments may adversely affect our stockholders.. Although our Board of Directors has approved a dividend policy pursuant to which it plans to make, subject to subsequent declaration, regular quarterly cash dividends, the payment of future dividends is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and we may not pay quarterly dividends in the same amounts or at all in the future. Our Board monitors and evaluates our dividend practice quarterly and may elect to increase, decrease or not pay a dividend at any time. Our ability to pay dividends could be affected by future business performance, liquidity, capital needs, alternative investment opportunities and debt covenants associated with our line of credit. Any future determination as to the payment of dividends will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our operating results, financial condition, capital requirements, general business conditions and such other factors as our Board of Directors deems relevant. Any future decisions to reduce or discontinue paying cash dividends to our stockholders could cause the trading price for our common stock to decline and could adversely affect our stockholders.. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which are costly to defend and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future.. We may become subject to claims alleging infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. Our portal contracts require us to indemnify our government partners for infringing software we build or use. Any claims could subject us to costly litigation, and may require us to pay damages and develop non-infringing intellectual property or acquire licenses to the intellectual property that is the subject of the alleged infringement. Licenses for such intellectual property may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. Litigation regarding intellectual property rights is common in the internet and software industries. We expect third-party infringement claims involving internet technologies and software products and services to continue to increase. If an infringement claim is filed against us, we may be prevented from using certain technologies and may incur significant costs resolving the claim. We cannot ensure that our applications and services do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties. In addition, we have agreed, and expect that we may agree in the future, to indemnify certain of our partners against claims that our services infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. We could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves and our partners against infringement claims.. We depend on technology licensed to us by third parties, and the loss of access to, or improper management of the licensing of this technology could delay implementation of our services or force us to pay higher license fees or fines.. We license numerous third-party technologies and applications that we incorporate into our existing service offerings, and on which, in the aggregate, we are substantially dependent. There can be no assurance that the licenses for such third-party technologies will not be terminated or that we will be able to license third-party technology and applications for future services. While we do not believe that one individual technology or application we license is material to our business, changes in or the loss of third-party licenses could lead to a material increase in the costs of licensing, or to our products becoming inoperable or their performance being materially reduced. The result could be that we may need to incur additional development or procurement costs to continue the performance of our services, and either the cost of such undertakings or the failure to successfully complete such undertakings could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. Additionally, because of the decentralized nature of our operations, licensing of third-party technology can be complex and difficult to track and continually monitor. Our inability to do so could result in fines, an increase in licensing fees, or the temporary inability to utilize the third-party technology until licensing issues are resolved.. A prolonged economic slowdown could harm our operations.. A prolonged economic slowdown or recession could materially impact our operations to the extent it results in reduced demand for internet-based access to digital government services. In addition, it may hinder our efforts to obtain new business by distracting the attention of governments or impairing the ability of governments to hear or act upon our value proposition due to reduced personnel or turnover. These same factors may also jeopardize our renewal or rebid opportunities on existing. 23. contracts. If current market and economic conditions deteriorate, we may experience adverse impacts on our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition.. Our cash could be adversely affected if any of the financial institutions in which we hold our cash fails or becomes subject to other adverse conditions in the financial or credit markets.. Our cash primarily includes cash on hand in the form of bank deposits. We maintain our cash with major financial institutions. Deposits with these financial institutions exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (\"FDIC\") insurance limits. At December 31, 2017, the amount of cash covered by FDIC deposit insurance was $8.6 million, and $152.2 million of cash was above the FDIC deposit insurance limits. These balances and our liquidity could be affected if one or more of the financial institutions with which we deposit funds fails or becomes subject to other adverse conditions in the financial or credit markets. To date, we have experienced no loss or lack of access to our cash; however, we can provide no assurance that access to our liquidity will not be impacted or that we will not lose deposited funds in excess of FDIC insurance limits as a result of the failure or insolvency of any these financial institutions or adverse conditions in the financial and credit markets.. If our rate of growth accelerates, we may not effectively manage our growth, which could adversely affect our business and our results of operations.. Our growth rate may accelerate if we experience increased acceptance of our services under new or existing government contracts. If we cannot manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to coordinate the activities of our technical, accounting, and marketing staffs, and our business could be harmed. As part of our growth plan, we must implement new operational procedures and internal controls to expand, train, and manage our employees and to coordinate the operations of our various subsidiaries. If we cannot successfully implement government contracts that were recently awarded or may be awarded in the future in a timely and cost-effective manner or effectively manage the growth of the government portals we operate, our staff, software installation and maintenance teams, offices and operations, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.. We are subject to independent audits as requested by our government customers. Deficiencies in our performance under a government contract could result in contract termination, reputational damage, or financial penalties.. Each government entity with which we contract for outsourced portal services may have the authority to require an independent audit of our performance and financial management of contracted operations in each respective state. The scope of audits could include inspections of income statements, balance sheets, fee structures, collections practices, service levels, security practices, and our compliance with contract provisions and applicable laws, regulations, and standards. The expansion of our operations into new markets and services may further expose us to requirements and potential liabilities under additional statutes and rules that have previously not been relevant to our business. We cannot ensure that a future audit will not find any material performance deficiencies that would result in an adjustment to our revenues and result in financial penalties. Moreover, any consequent negative publicity could harm our reputation among other governments with which we would like to contract. These factors could harm our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition."
