[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following factors, as well as other factors not set forth below, may adversely affect the business, operations, financial condition or results of operations of the Company (sometimes referred to in this section as \"we\" \"us\" or \"our\").. We have in the past experienced and may in the future experience high delinquency and loss rates in our portfolios. This has reduced and may continue to reduce our profitability. In addition, our inability to accurately forecast and estimate the amount and timing of future collections could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations.. Our consolidated net (loss) income for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016 was $(1.1) million, $5.4 million and $12.4 million, respectively. Our profitability depends, to a material extent, on the performance of contracts that we purchase. Historically, we have experienced higher delinquency rates than traditional financial institutions because substantially all of our Contracts and Direct Loans are to non-prime borrowers, who are unable to obtain financing from traditional sources due primarily to their credit history. Contracts and Direct Loans made to these individuals generally entail a higher risk of delinquency, default and repossession and higher losses than loans made to consumers with better credit.. Our underwriting standards and collection procedures may not offer adequate protection against the risk of default, especially in periods of economic uncertainty and wage stagnation such as have existed over much of the past few years. In the event of a default, the collateral value of the financed vehicle usually does not cover the outstanding Contract or Direct Loan balance and costs of recovery.. Our ability to accurately forecast performance and determine an appropriate provision and allowance for credit losses, is critical to our business and financial results. The allowance for credit losses is established through a provision for credit losses based on management's evaluation of the risk inherent in the portfolio, the composition of the portfolio, specific impaired Contracts and Direct Loans and current economic conditions. Please see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Critical Accounting Policy\" in Item 7 of this Form 10-K and \"Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting\" in Item 9A of this Form 10-K, both of which are incorporated herein by reference.. There can be no assurance that our performance forecasts will be accurate. In periods with changing economic conditions, such as is the case currently, accurately forecasting the performance of Contract and Direct Loans is more difficult. Our allowance for losses is an estimate, and if actual Contract and Direct Loan losses are materially greater than our allowance for losses, or more generally, if our forecasts are not accurate, our financial position, liquidity and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Other than limited representations and warranties made by dealers in favor of the Company, Contracts are purchased from the dealers without recourse, and we are therefore only able to look to the borrowers for repayment.. In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") issued the ASU 2016-13 Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments. Among other things, the amendments in this ASU require the measurement of all expected credit losses for financial instruments held at the reporting date based on historical experience, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts. Financial institutions and other organizations will now use forward-looking information to better inform their credit loss estimates. Many of the loss estimation techniques applied today will still be permitted, although the inputs to those techniques will change to reflect the full amount of expected credit losses. The ASU also requires additional disclosures related to estimates and judgments used to measure all expected credit losses. The new guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019. Early application will be permitted for all organizations for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2018. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this ASU on the consolidated financial statements and is collecting and analyzing data that will be needed to produce historical inputs into any models created as a result of adopting this ASU. At this time, we believe the adoption of this ASU will have likely have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements.. 9. We operate in an increasingly competitive market.. The non-prime consumer-finance industry is highly competitive, and the competitiveness of the market continues to increase as new competitors continue to enter the market and certain existing competitors continue to expand their operations and become more aggressive in offering competitive terms. There are numerous financial service companies that provide consumer credit in the markets served by us, including banks, credit unions, other consumer finance companies and captive finance companies owned by automobile manufacturers and retailers. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial resources than us. In addition, our competitors often provide financing on terms more favorable to automobile purchasers or dealers than we offer. Many of these competitors also have long-standing relationships with automobile dealerships and may offer dealerships or their customers other forms of financing, including dealer floor-plan financing and leasing, which are not provided by us. Providers of non-prime consumer financing have traditionally competed primarily on the basis of:. <U+0095>   interest rates charged;. <U+0095>   the quality of credit accepted;. <U+0095>   dealer discount;. <U+0095>   amount paid to dealers relative to the wholesale book value;. <U+0095>   the flexibility of Contract and Direct Loan terms offered; and. <U+0095>   the quality of service provided.. Our ability to compete effectively with other companies offering similar financing arrangements depends in part on our ability to maintain close relationships with dealers of used and new vehicles. We may not be able to compete successfully in this market or against these competitors. In recent years, it has become increasingly difficult for the Company to match or exceed pricing of its competitors, which has generally resulted in declining Contract acquisition rates during the 2016, 2017 and 2018 fiscal years.. We have focused on a segment of the market composed of consumers who typically do not meet the more stringent credit requirements of traditional consumer financing sources and whose needs, as a result, have not been addressed consistently by such financing sources. As new and existing providers of consumer financing have undertaken to penetrate our targeted market segment, we have experienced increasing pressure to reduce our interest rates, fees and dealer discounts in order to maintain our market share. The Company's average dealer discount on Contracts purchased for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016 was 7.41%, 7.08%, and 7.51%, respectively. The Company's weighted average APR on Contracts purchased for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016 was 22.35%, 22.22%, and 22.66%, respectively. These competitive factors continue to exist and may impact our ability to secure quality loans on our preferred terms in significant quantities.. In addition, the number of Contracts and Direct Loans under which customers decided to discontinue contractually required payments to us after they were approved by other lenders for new vehicle financing has recently increased. We are particularly vulnerable to the effects of these practices because of our focus on providing financing with respect to used vehicles.. Our business depends on our continued access to bank financing on acceptable terms.. Our business is particularly dependent on our ability to access bank financing at competitive rates. We currently use a $200.0 million line of credit facility (the \"Line of Credit\") with a consortium of lenders to finance a large portion of our Contract purchases and Direct Loans. This Line of Credit has a maturity date of March 30, 2019. Our average indebtedness under the Line of Credit decreased to $189.4 million in fiscal 2018 from $211.0 million in fiscal 2017 and $208.2 million in fiscal 2016.. Pledged as collateral for the Line of Credit are substantially all of the assets of the Company. The Line of Credit requires compliance with certain financial ratios and covenants and satisfaction of specified financial tests, including maintenance of asset quality and performance tests. In the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2018, the Company faced difficulties in complying with all of these requirements. Had the Company not entered into amendment 6 and amendment 7 to the credit agreement in effect at such time, the Company would not have been in compliance with the minimum interest coverage ratio of 1.5:1 as of June 30, 2017, September 30, 2017 and December 31, 2017, respectively. There can be no assurances that the Company will be able to comply with all of the financial ratios, covenants and financial tests going forward. Failure to meet any financial ratios, covenants or financial tests could result in an event of default under the Line of Credit. If an event of default occurs, our lenders could increase our borrowing costs, restrict our ability to obtain additional borrowings under the Line of Credit, accelerate all amounts outstanding under the Line of Credit, or enforce their interest against collateral pledged under the Line of Credit.. Since the borrowings available under the Line of Credit are calculated every month based on individual loan criteria as defined in the credit agreement, no assurances can be given that the Company will maintain sufficient availability. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 and the first nine months of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, the quality of the Company's loan portfolio generally deteriorated, which resulted in an increase in non-performing loans, an increase in delinquencies (with a decrease limited to the quarter ended December 31, 2017) and other factors, which in turn resulted in increased net charge-offs and an increase in the provision for credit losses. These conditions affected our borrowing capacity under the Line of Credit. In addition, the maximum amount that may be borrowed under our Line of Credit was recently reduced from $225 million to $200 million as of March 30, 2018.. 10. While management believes that it will be able to obtain renewals or extensions of the Line of Credit beyond its current maturity date, there are no assurances that the lenders will approve the renewal or extension, or, assuming they will approve it, that the renewal or extension will not be on terms less favorable than the current agreement. The Company may also determine to seek alternative financing, including but not limited through the issuance of equity or debt. We may not be able to raise additional funds on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to secure sufficient capital to fund our operating activities, whether through use of the Line of Credit or through the issuance of equity or debt, we may be required to curtail portions of our strategic plan and, in certain circumstances, we may be forced to liquidate. Any equity financings may cause substantial dilution to our stockholders and could involve the issuance of securities with rights senior to the common stock. Any allowed debt financings may require us to comply with onerous financial covenants and restrict our business operations. Our ability to complete additional financings is dependent on, among other things, the state of the capital markets at the time of any proposed offering, market reception of the Company and the likelihood of the success of our business model, and the offering terms, among other things.. The terms of our indebtedness impose significant restrictions on us.. Our existing outstanding indebtedness restricts our ability to, among other things:. <U+0095>   sell or transfer assets;. <U+0095>   incur additional debt;. <U+0095>   repay other debt;. <U+0095>   make certain investments or acquisitions;. <U+0095>   repurchase or redeem capital stock;. <U+0095>   engage in mergers or consolidations; and. <U+0095>   engage in certain transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates.. In addition, our Line of Credit requires us to comply with certain financial ratios and covenants and to satisfy specified financial tests, including maintenance of asset quality and portfolio performance tests. The need to comply with such covenants and other provisions could impact our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders, to the extent we otherwise would be in a position to do so. Moreover, our ability to continue to meet those financial ratios and tests could be affected by events beyond our control. Failure to meet any of these covenants, financial ratios or financial tests could result in an event of default under our Line of Credit. If an event of default occurs under this credit facility, our lenders may take one or more of the following actions:. <U+0095>   increase our borrowing costs;. <U+0095>   restrict our ability to obtain additional borrowings under the facility;. <U+0095>   accelerate all amounts outstanding under the facility; or. <U+0095>   enforce their interest against collateral pledged under the facility.. If our lender accelerates our debt payments, our assets may not be sufficient to fully repay the debt.. Potential events of default under our current line of credit facility, include, but are not limited to:. <U+0095>   Any one person owning more than thirty percent (30%) of our voting stock without the prior written approval of the majority lenders of the credit facility;. <U+0095>   Failure to maintain the appropriate Interest Coverage Ratio of at least 1.00:1 calculated as of the last day of each month for the three-month period then ended (defined as (a) the sum of (i) adjusted net earnings from operations for the applicable period (reduced by any increase in charge off shortfall and loss reserve shortfall), (ii) interest expense and (iii) any provision for income taxes for such period, divided by (b) aggregate interest expense for such period, as further set forth in the Second Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement, as subsequently amended); or. <U+0095>   Failure to maintain appropriate ratios as it pertains to the Accelerated Collateral Adjustment Percent (as defined in the Second Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement, as subsequently amended).. We require a significant amount of cash to service our indebtedness and meet our other liquidity needs.. Our ability to make payments on or to refinance our indebtedness and to fund our operations and planned capital expenditures depends on our future operating performance. Our primary cash requirements include the funding of:. <U+0095>   Contract purchases and Direct Loans;. <U+0095>   interest payments under our line of credit facility and other indebtedness;. <U+0095>   capital expenditures for technology and facilities;. 11. <U+0095>   ongoing operating expenses;. <U+0095>   planned expansions by opening additional branch offices; and. <U+0095>   any required income tax payments.. Our high level of indebtedness could have important consequences for our business. For example,. <U+0095>   we may be unable to satisfy our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness;. <U+0095>   we may find it more difficult to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and general corporate needs;. <U+0095>   we may have to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash resources to the payments on our outstanding indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available for operations and future business opportunities; and. <U+0095>   we may be more vulnerable to adverse general economic and industry conditions.. Our ability to make payments on, or to refinance, our indebtedness will depend on our future operating performance, including our ability to access additional debt and equity financing, which to a certain extent, is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control, including in light of the current volatility affecting the global economic system and uncertainty surrounding regulatory reforms. If new debt is added to our current levels, the risks described above could intensify.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, we may not be able to accurately and timely report our financial results, which could lead to a loss of investor confidence in our financial statements and have an adverse effect on our stock price.. Effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are necessary for us to provide reliable and accurate financial statements, to effectively prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a public company. As further described in Item 9A. Controls and Procedures, our management has concluded that, because of a material weakness, our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of March 31, 2018. The Company has and will continue to enhance its controls and expects to remediate the material weakness. However, we cannot be certain that these measures will be successful or that we will be able to prevent future significant deficiencies or material weaknesses. Inadequate internal control over financial reporting or inadequate disclosure controls and procedures could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could hurt our reputation and have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock and our access to capital.. The Dodd-Frank Act authorizes the CFPB to adopt rules that could potentially have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance.. Title X of the Dodd-Frank Act established the CFPB, which became operational on July 21, 2011. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFPB has regulatory, supervisory and enforcement powers over providers of consumer financial products, such as the Contracts and Direct Loans that we offer, including explicit supervisory authority to examine and require registration of installment lenders such as ourselves. Included among the powers afforded to the CFPB is the authority to adopt rules describing specified acts and practices as being \"unfair,\" \"deceptive\" or \"abusive,\" and hence unlawful. The CFPB has outlined several proposals under consideration for the purpose of requiring lenders to take steps to ensure consumers have the financial ability to repay their loans. The proposals under consideration would require lenders to determine at the outset of each loan whether a consumer can afford to borrow from the lender and would require that lenders comply with various restrictions designed to ensure that consumers can affordably repay their debt to the lender. To date, the proposals under consideration by the CFPB have not been adopted. If adopted, the proposals outlined by the CFPB may require the Company to make significant changes to its lending practices to develop compliant procedures.. Although the Dodd-Frank Act expressly provides that the CFPB has no authority to establish usury limits, some consumer advocacy groups have suggested that certain forms of alternative consumer finance products, such as installment loans, should be a regulatory priority and it is possible that at some time in the future the CFPB could propose and adopt rules making such lending or other products that we may offer materially less profitable or impractical. Further, the CFPB may target specific features of loans by rulemaking that could cause us to cease offering certain products. Any such rules could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. The CFPB could also adopt rules imposing new and potentially burdensome requirements and limitations with respect to any of our current or future lines of business, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance.. In addition to the Dodd-Frank Act's grant of regulatory powers to the CFPB, the Dodd-Frank Act gives the CFPB authority to pursue administrative proceedings or litigation for violations of federal consumer financial laws. In these proceedings, the CFPB can obtain cease and desist orders (which can include orders for restitution or rescission of contracts, as well as other kinds of affirmative relief) and monetary penalties ranging from $5,000 per day for minor violations of federal consumer financial laws (including the CFPB's own rules) to $25,000 per day for reckless violations and $1 million per day for knowing violations. If we are subject to such administrative proceedings, litigation, orders or monetary penalties in the future, this could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. Also, where a company has violated Title X of the Dodd-Frank Act or CFPB regulations under Title X, the Dodd-Frank Act empowers state attorneys general and state regulators to bring civil actions for the kind of cease and desist orders available to the CFPB (but not for civil penalties). If the CFPB or one or more state officials believe we have violated the foregoing laws, they could exercise their enforcement powers in ways that would have a material adverse effect on us. See \"Item 1. Business  -  Regulation\" for additional information.. 12. Pursuant to the authority granted to it under the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFPB adopted rules that subject larger nonbank automobile finance companies such as us to supervision and examination by the CFPB. Any such examination by the CFPB likely would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance.. The CFPB issued rules regarding the supervision and examination of non-depository \"larger participants\" in the automobile finance business, including us. Since we are deemed a larger participant, we are subject to supervision and examination by the CFPB. The CFPB's stated objectives of such examinations are: to assess the quality of a larger participant's compliance management systems for preventing violations of federal consumer financial laws; to identify acts or practices that materially increase the risk of violations of federal consumer finance laws and associated harm to consumers; and to gather facts that help determine whether the larger participant engages in acts or practices that are likely to violate federal consumer financial laws in connection with its automobile finance business. Thus, as a larger participant, we will be subject to examination by the CFPB for, among other things, ECOA compliance; unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices (\"UDAAP\") compliance; and the adequacy of our compliance management systems.. In February 2016, the CFPB published a list of nine policy priorities on which it intends to focus its resources over the next two years. These priorities include, among other things, initiation of the rulemaking process regarding debt collection practices that would apply to third-party collectors and first-party collectors and continued examination and investigation of, and potential rulemaking regarding, consumer credit reporting practices. The timing and impact of these anticipated rules on our business remain uncertain.. We have evaluated our existing compliance management systems and are in the process of updating, improving and/or replacing such systems. We expect this process to continue as the CFPB promulgates new and evolving rules and interpretations. Given the time and effort needed to establish, implement and maintain adequate compliance management systems and the resources and costs associated with being examined by the CFPB, such an examination would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and profitability. Moreover, any such examination by the CFPB could result in the assessment of penalties, including fines, and other remedies which could, in turn, have a material effect on our business, financial condition and profitability.. We are subject to many other laws and governmental regulations, and any material violations of or changes in these laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and business operations.. Our financing operations are subject to regulation, supervision and licensing under various other federal, state and local statutes and ordinances. Additionally, the procedures that we must follow in connection with the repossession of vehicles securing Contracts are regulated by each of the states in which we do business. The various federal, state and local statutes, regulations, and ordinances applicable to our business govern, among other things:. <U+0095>   licensing requirements;. <U+0095>   requirements for maintenance of proper records;. <U+0095>   payment of required fees to certain states;. <U+0095>   maximum interest rates that may be charged on loans to finance used and new vehicles;. <U+0095>   debt collection practices;. <U+0095>   proper disclosure to customers regarding financing terms;. <U+0095>   privacy regarding certain customer data;. <U+0095>   interest rates on loans to customers;. <U+0095>   late fees and insufficient fees charged;. <U+0095>   telephone solicitation of Direct Loan customers; and. <U+0095>   collection of debts from loan customers who have filed bankruptcy.. We believe that we maintain all material licenses and permits required for our current operations and are in substantial compliance with all applicable local, state and federal regulations. Our failure, or the failure by dealers who originate the contracts we purchase, to maintain all requisite licenses and permits, and to comply with other regulatory requirements, could result in consumers having rights of rescission and other remedies that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Furthermore, any changes in applicable laws, rules and regulations, such as the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act and the creation of the CFPB, may make our compliance therewith more difficult or expensive or otherwise materially adversely affect our business and financial condition.. 13. We have recently experienced substantial turnover in our senior management. The loss of our key executives could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our future growth and development is significantly dependent upon the skills and experience of our senior management team and our ability to retain that team.. On June 12, 2017, Ralph T. Finkenbrink informed us that he would be retiring as our President and Chief Executive Officer effective September 30, 2017. Mr. Finkenbrink had been employed by the Company for 29 years, including 25 years in senior executive positions. On December 11, 2017, the Company appointed Douglas Marohn as President and CEO. On February 1, 2018, Katie L. MacGillivary informed us that she would be resigning from her position as CFO and Vice President of Finance. Ms. MacGillivary was with the Company for 10 years. On February 20, 2018, we announced that Chad Steinorth would rejoin the Company as Vice President and interim CFO. Mr. Steinorth resigned from the position of interim CFO on June 20, 2018, when Kelly M. Malson assumed her role as CFO. In March 2018, our Controller position was likewise replaced. On April 27, 2018, the Company notified Kevin D. Bates that it would not be renewing his employment contract, which therefore expires in July 2018. Mr. Bates has been with the Company for 15 years, including 5 years as a senior executive.. We do not maintain key-man life insurance policies on any of these executives. The loss of services of one or more of the executives could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In fact, the turnover of our CEO, CFO and Controller during the year ended March 31, 2018 contributed to a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. See Item 9A. Controls and Procedures in this Annual Report, the text of which is incorporated herein by reference.. We are subject to risks associated with litigation.. As a consumer finance company, we are subject to various consumer claims and litigation seeking damages and statutory penalties, based upon, among other things:. <U+0095>   usury laws;. <U+0095>   disclosure inaccuracies;. <U+0095>   wrongful repossession;. <U+0095>   violations of bankruptcy stay provisions;. <U+0095>   certificate of title disputes;. <U+0095>   fraud;. <U+0095>   breach of contract; and. <U+0095>   discriminatory treatment of credit applicants.. Some litigation against us could take the form of class action complaints by consumers. As the assignee of contracts originated by dealers, we may also be named as a co-defendant in lawsuits filed by consumers principally against dealers. The damages and penalties claimed by consumers in these types of actions can be substantial. The relief requested by the plaintiffs varies but may include requests for compensatory, statutory and punitive damages. We also are periodically subject to other kinds of litigation typically experienced by businesses such as ours, including employment disputes and breach of contract claims. No assurances can be given that we will not experience material financial losses in the future as a result of litigation or other legal proceedings.. We depend upon our relationships with our dealers.. Our business depends in large part upon our ability to establish and maintain relationships with reputable dealers who originate the Contracts we purchase. Although we believe we have been successful in developing and maintaining such relationships, such relationships are not exclusive, and many of them are not longstanding. There can be no assurances that we will be successful in maintaining such relationships or increasing the number of dealers with whom we do business, or that our existing dealer base will continue to generate a volume of Contracts comparable to the volume of such Contracts historically generated by such dealers.. Our success depends upon our ability to implement our business strategy.. Our financial position depends on management's ability to execute our business strategy. Key factors involved in the execution of our business strategy include achievement of the desired contract purchase volume, the use of effective risk management techniques and collection methods, continued investment in technology to support operating efficiency, and continued access to significant funding and liquidity sources.. With the recent change in senior management, the Company's business strategy has been redefined. This strategy includes remaining committed to the branch-based model, focusing on financing primary transportation to and from work for the subprime borrower, pricing based on risk (rate, yield, advance, etc.) and a commitment to the underwriting discipline required for optimal portfolio performance.. 14. Our failure or inability to execute any element of our business strategy could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. Our business is highly dependent upon general economic conditions.. We are subject to changes in general economic conditions that are beyond our control. During periods of economic uncertainty, such as has existed for much of the past few years, delinquencies, defaults, repossessions and losses generally increase, absent offsetting factors. These periods also may be accompanied by decreased consumer demand for automobiles and declining values of automobiles securing outstanding loans, which weakens collateral coverage on our loans and increases the amount of a loss we would experience in the event of default. Because we focus on non-prime borrowers, the actual rates of delinquencies, defaults, repossessions and losses on these loans are higher than those experienced in the general automobile finance industry and could be more dramatically affected by a general economic downturn. In addition, during an economic slowdown or recession, our servicing costs may increase without a corresponding increase in our servicing income. No assurances can be given that our underwriting criteria and collection methods to manage the higher risk inherent in loans made to non-prime borrowers will afford adequate protection against these risks. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, defaults, repossessions or losses or increased servicing costs could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. Furthermore, in a low interest-rate environment such as has existed in the United States in recent years, the level of competition increases in the non-prime consumer-finance industry as new competitors enter the market and many existing competitors expand their operations. Such increased competition, in turn, has exerted increased pressure on us to reduce our interest rates, fees and dealer discount rates in order to maintain our market share. Although the Company has recently shifted its focus on not reducing APR and discounts to secure new loan volume, it can provide no assurances that it will be successful in doing so. Any further reductions in our interest rates, fees or dealer discount rates could have a material adverse impact on our profitability or financial condition.. The auction proceeds we receive from the sale of repossessed vehicles and other recoveries are subject to fluctuation due to economic and other factors beyond our control.. If we repossess a vehicle securing a Contract, we typically have it transported to an automobile auction for sale. Auction proceeds from the sale of repossessed vehicles and other recoveries are usually not sufficient to cover the outstanding balance of the Contract, and the resulting deficiency is charged off. In addition, there is, on average, approximately a 30-day lapse between the time we repossess a vehicle and the time it is sold. The proceeds we receive from such sales depend upon various factors, including the supply of, and demand for, used vehicles at the time of sale. Such supply and demand are dependent on many factors. For example, during periods of economic uncertainty, the demand for used cars may soften, resulting in decreased auction proceeds to us from the sale of repossessed automobiles. Furthermore, depressed wholesale prices for used automobiles may result from significant liquidations of rental or fleet inventories, and from increased volume of trade-ins due to promotional financing programs offered by new vehicle manufacturers. Newer, more expensive vehicles securing our larger dollar loans are more susceptible to wholesale pricing fluctuations than are older vehicles and also experience depreciation at a much greater rate. Until the Company's portfolio has been successfully converted to primarily consisting of our target vehicle (primary transportation to and from work for the subprime borrower), the Company expects to be affected by softer auction activity and reduced vehicle values.. An increase in market interest rates may reduce our profitability.. Our long-term profitability may be directly affected by the level of and fluctuations in interest rates. Sustained, significant increases in interest rates may adversely affect our liquidity and profitability by reducing the interest rate spread between the rate of interest we receive on our Contracts and interest rates that we pay under our Line of Credit. As interest rates increase, our gross interest rate spread on new originations will generally decline since the rates charged on the contracts originated or purchased from dealers generally are limited by statutory maximums, restricting our opportunity to pass on increased interest costs. We monitor the interest rate environment and, on occasion, enter into interest rate swap agreements relating to a portion of our outstanding debt. Such agreements effectively convert a portion of our floating-rate debt to a fixed-rate, thus reducing the impact of interest rate changes on our interest expense. However, the interest rate swap agreements in effect for most of the past five years matured during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, and we have not entered into new arrangements. We will continue to evaluate interest rate swap pricing and we may or may not enter into interest rate swap agreements in the future.. We may experience problems with our integrated computer systems or be unable to keep pace with developments in technology.. We use various technologies in our business, including telecommunication, data processing, and integrated computer systems. Technology changes rapidly. Our ability to compete successfully with other financing companies may depend on our ability to efficiently and cost-effectively implement technological changes. Moreover, to keep pace with our competitors, we may be required to invest in technological changes that do not necessarily improve our profitability.. 15. We utilize our integrated computer systems to respond to customer inquiries and to monitor the performance of our Contract and Direct Loan portfolios and the performance of individual customers under our Contracts and Direct Loans. Problems with our systems' operations could adversely impact our ability to monitor our portfolios or collect amounts due under our Contracts and Direct Loans, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Failure to properly safeguard confidential customer information could subject us to liability, decrease our profitability and damage our reputation.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including our proprietary business information and personally identifiable information of our customers, on our computer networks, and share such data with third parties. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy.. Any failure, interruption, or breach in our cyber security, including through employee misconduct or any failure of our back-up systems or failure to maintain adequate security surrounding customer information, could result in reputational harm, disruption in the management of our customer relationships, or the inability to originate, process and service our products. Further, any of these cyber security and operational risks could result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to lawsuits by customers for identity theft or other damages resulting from the misuse of their personal information and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, regulators may impose penalties or require remedial action if they identify weaknesses in our security systems, and we may be required to incur significant costs to increase our cyber security to address any vulnerabilities that may be discovered or to remediate the harm caused by any security breaches. As part of our business, we may share confidential customer information and proprietary information with clients, vendors, service providers, and business partners. The information systems of these third parties may be vulnerable to security breaches and we may not be able to ensure that these third parties have appropriate security controls in place to protect the information we share with them. If our confidential information is intercepted, stolen, misused, or mishandled while in possession of a third party, it could result in reputational harm to us, loss of customer business, and additional regulatory scrutiny, and it could expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication necessary to secure online transmission of confidential customer information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments may result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms that we use to protect sensitive customer data. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may be required to expend capital and other resources to protect against, or alleviate problems caused by, security breaches or other cybersecurity incidents. Although we have not experienced any material cybersecurity incidents to dates, there can be no assurance that a cyber-attack, security breach or other cybersecurity incident will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations in the future. Our security measures are designed to protect against security breaches, but our failure to prevent security breaches could subject us to liability, decrease our profitability and damage our reputation.. We partially rely on third parties to deliver services, and failure by those parties to provide these services or meet contractual requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on third-party service providers for many aspects of our business operations, including loan origination, title processing and online payments, which increases our operational complexity and decreases our control. We rely on these service providers to provide a high level of service and support, which subjects us to risks associated with inadequate or untimely service. If a service provider fails to provide the services that we require or expect, or fails to meet contractual requirements, such as service levels or compliance with applicable laws, a failure could negatively impact our business by adversely affecting our ability to process customers' transactions in a timely and accurate manner, otherwise hampering our ability to service our customers, or subjecting us to litigation or regulatory risk for poor vendor oversight. We may be unable to replace or be delayed in replacing these sources and there is a risk that we would be unable to enter into a similar agreement with an alternate provider on terms that we consider favorable or in a timely manner. Such a failure could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 16. Our growth depends upon our ability to retain and attract a sufficient number of qualified employees.. To a large extent, our growth strategy depends on the opening of new offices that focus primarily on purchasing Contracts and making Direct Loans in markets we have not previously served. Future expansion of our branch office network depends, in part, upon our ability to attract and retain qualified and experienced office managers and the ability of such managers to develop relationships with dealers that serve those markets. We generally do not open a new office until we have located and hired a qualified and experienced individual to manage the office. Typically, this individual will be familiar with local market conditions and have existing relationships with dealers in the area to be served. Although we believe that we can attract and retain qualified and experienced personnel as we proceed with planned expansion into new markets, no assurance can be given that we will be successful in doing so. Competition to hire personnel possessing the skills and experience required by us could contribute to an increase in our employee turnover rate. High turnover or an inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on our origination, delinquency, default and net loss rates and, ultimately, our business and financial condition.. Our stock is thinly traded, which may limit your ability to resell your shares.. The average daily trading volume of our common shares on the NASDAQ Global Select Market for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 was approximately 10,000 shares. Thus, our common shares are thinly traded. Thinly traded stock can be more volatile than stock trading in an active public market. Factors such as our financial results, the introduction of new products and services by us or our competitors, and various factors affecting the consumer-finance industry generally may have a significant impact on the market price of our common shares. In recent years, the stock market has experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and market prices for the stocks of many companies, including ours, have experienced wide price fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to their operating performance. Therefore, our shareholders may not be able to sell their shares at the volumes, prices, or times that they desire.. Natural disasters, acts of war, terrorist attacks and threats or the escalation of military activity in response to these attacks or otherwise may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Natural disasters (such as hurricanes), acts of war, terrorist attacks and the escalation of military activity in response to these attacks or otherwise may have negative and significant effects, such as disruptions in our operations, imposition of increased security measures, changes in applicable laws, market disruptions and job losses. These events may have an adverse effect on the economy in general. Moreover, the potential for future terrorist attacks and the national and international responses to these threats could affect the business in ways that cannot be predicted. The effect of any of these events or threats could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in U.S. federal, state and local tax law or interpretations of existing tax law could increase our tax burden or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.. We are subject to taxation at the federal, state and local levels in the United States. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"TCJA\"). The changes included in the TCJA are broad and complex. The final transition impacts of the TCJA may differ from the estimates provided elsewhere in this Annual Report, possibly materially, due to, among other things, changes in interpretations of the TCJA, any legislative action to address questions that arise because of the TCJA, any changes in accounting standards for income taxes or related interpretations in response to the TCJA, or any updates or changes to estimates the Company has utilized to calculate the transition impacts, including impacts from changes to current year earnings estimates. The estimated impact of the new law is based on management's current knowledge and assumptions and recognized impacts could be materially different from current estimates.. 17"
