[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently view to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Business. We may be unable to adapt to significant technological changes, which could adversely affect our business.. We operate in businesses that require sophisticated data collection, processing systems, software and other technology. Some of the technologies supporting the industries we serve are changing rapidly. We have been and will be required to adapt to changing technologies and industry standards, either by developing and marketing new services investing in new services or by enhancing our existing services to meet client demand.. Moreover, the introduction of new services embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render existing services technologically or commercially obsolete. Our continued success will depend on our ability to adapt to changing technologies, manage and process ever-increasing amounts of data and information and improve the performance, features and reliability of our existing services in response to changing client and industry demands. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful design, development, testing, introduction or marketing of our services. New services, or enhancements to existing services, may not adequately meet the requirements of current and prospective clients or achieve any degree of significant market acceptance.. 15. Traditional methods of television viewing continue to change as a result of fragmentation of channels and digital and other new television and video technologies and devices such as video-on-demand, digital video recorders, game consoles, tablets, other mobile devices and internet viewing. In addition, consumption of consumer packaged goods is growing in new and different channels such as discount stores and e-commerce. If we are unable to continue to successfully adapt our media and consumer measurement systems to new viewing and consumption habits, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Consolidation in the industries in which our clients operate could put pressure on the pricing of our services, thereby leading to decreased earnings.. Consolidation in the industries in which our clients operate could reduce aggregate demand for our services in the future and could limit the amounts we earn for our services. When companies merge, the services they previously purchased separately are often purchased by the combined entity in the aggregate in a lesser quantity than before, leading to volume and price compression and loss of revenue. While we are attempting to mitigate the revenue impact of any consolidation by expanding our range of services, there can be no assurance as to the degree to which we will be able to do so as industry consolidation continues, which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations.. Client procurement strategies could put additional pressure on the pricing of our services, thereby leading to decreased earnings.. Certain of our clients may continue to seek further price concessions from us. This puts pressure on the pricing of our services, which could limit the amounts we earn. While we attempt to mitigate the revenue impact of any pricing pressure through effective negotiations and by providing services to individual businesses within particular groups, there can be no assurance as to the degree to which we will be able to do so, which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations.. Adverse market conditions, particularly in the consumer packaged goods, media, entertainment, telecommunications or technology industries, could adversely impact our revenue.. Adverse economic conditions could affect markets both in the United States and internationally, impacting the demand for our customers' products and services. Those reduced demands could adversely affect the ability of some of our customers to meet their current obligations to us, hinder their ability to incur new obligations until the economy and their businesses strengthen or cause them to reduce or cease using our services. The inability of our customers to pay us for our services and/or decisions by current or future customers to forego or defer purchases may adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, profitability and cash flows and may present risks for an extended period of time. We cannot predict the impact of economic slowdowns on our future financial performance.. To the extent that the businesses we service, especially our clients in the consumer packaged goods, media, entertainment, telecommunications and technology industries, are subject to the financial pressures of, for example, increased costs or reduced demand for their products, the demand for our services, or the prices our clients are willing to pay for those services, may decline.. We expect that revenues generated from our measurement and analytical services will continue to represent a substantial portion of our overall revenue for the foreseeable future. During challenging economic times, clients, typically advertisers, within our Buy segment may reduce their discretionary advertising expenditures and may be less likely to purchase our analytical services, which would have an adverse effect on our revenue.. Clients within our Watch segment derive a significant amount of their revenue from the sale or purchase of advertising. During challenging economic times, advertisers may reduce advertising expenditures and advertising agencies and other media may be less likely to purchase our media information services, which would have an adverse effect on our revenue.. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial health.. We have and will continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2017, we had total indebtedness of $8,441 million.. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could:. •  increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. •  require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, service development efforts, dividends, share repurchases and other general corporate purposes;. 16. •  limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. •  expose us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest;. •  restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or cause us to make non-strategic divestitures;. •  limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, service development, debt service requirements, dividends, share repurchases, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes;. •  limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions;. •  place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and. •  limit our ability to service our dividend and stock repurchases programs.. In addition, the indentures governing our outstanding notes and our secured credit facility contain financial and other restrictive covenants that could limit the ability of our operating subsidiaries to engage in activities that may be in our best interests, including by limiting the ability to make acquisitions, pay dividends or repurchase shares.  Moreover, the failure to comply with any of those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt. See Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements- \"Long Term Debt and Other Financing Arrangements,\" for a description of our debt arrangements and related covenants.. Despite our current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more debt. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries' current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face could intensify.. We require a significant amount of cash as well as continued access to the capital markets to service our indebtedness, fund capital expenditures and meet our other liquidity needs. Our ability to generate cash and our access to the capital markets depend on many factors beyond our control.. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness (both interest and principal) and to fund planned capital expenditures and other liquidity needs will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future and our ability to refinance our indebtedness. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including our senior secured credit facilities, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. See Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements  -  \"Long-term Debt and Other Financing Arrangements,\" for a description of our debt arrangements and related maturities. A substantial portion of our indebtedness is at variable rates, and we are exposed to the risk of increased interest rates.. Our cash interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 was $352 million, $319 million and $296 million, respectively. At December 31, 2017, we had $4,074 million of floating-rate debt under our senior secured credit facilities of which $2,050 million was subject to effective floating-fixed interest rate swaps. A one percent increase in interest rates applied to our floating rate indebtedness would therefore increase annual interest expense by approximately $20 million ($41 million without giving effect to any of our interest rate swaps). We periodically review our fixed/floating debt mix, and the volume, rates and duration of our interest rate hedging portfolio are subject to changes, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. The success of our business depends on our ability to recruit sample participants to participate in our research samples.. Our business uses scanners and diaries to gather consumer data from sample households as well as Set Meters, People Meters, Active/Passive Meters, PPM's and diaries to gather television and audio audience measurement data from sample households. It is increasingly difficult and costly to obtain consent from households to participate in the surveys. In addition, it is increasingly difficult and costly to ensure that the selected sample of households mirrors the behaviors and characteristics of the entire population and covers all of the demographic segments requested by our clients.   Political changes and trends such as populism, economic nationalism, immigration and sentiment towards multinational companies have made recruiting a sample that mirrors the entire population more difficult.  In addition, if the 2020 U.S. Census is not reliable due to underfunding, new technologies being used, or otherwise, the data we rely on for our panels and statistical breakdowns in the U.S. may not be accurate.  Additionally, as consumers adopt modes of telecommunication other than traditional telephone service, such as mobile, cable and internet calling, it may become more difficult for our services to reach and recruit participants for consumer purchasing and audience measurement services. If we are. 17. unsuccessful in our efforts to recruit appropriate participants, maintain the integrity of our panels, maintain adequate participation levels or properly model the sample data, our clients may lose confidence in our ratings services and we could lose the support of the relevant industry groups. If this were to happen, our consumer purchasing and audience measurement services may be materially and adversely affected.. Data protection laws and self-regulatory codes may restrict our activities and increase our costs.. Various statutes and rules regulate conduct in areas such as privacy and data protection which may affect our collection, use, storage and transfer of information both abroad and in the United States. The definition of \"personally identifiable information\" and \"personal data\" continues to evolve and broaden, and new laws and regulations are being enacted, so that this area remains in a state of flux. In addition, some of our products and services are subject to self-regulatory programs relating to digital advertising. Compliance with these laws and self-regulatory codes may require us to make certain investments or may dictate that we not offer certain types of services or only offer such services after making necessary modifications. Failure to comply with these laws and self-regulatory codes may result in, among other things, civil and criminal liability, negative publicity, restrictions on further use of data and/or liability under contractual warranties.. In addition, there is an increasing public concern regarding data and consumer protection issues, with the result that the number of jurisdictions with data protection laws continues to increase and the scope of existing privacy laws and the data considered to be covered by such laws is expanding. Changes in these laws (including newly released interpretations of these laws by courts and regulatory bodies) may limit our data access, use and disclosure, and may require increased expenditures by us or may dictate that we may not offer certain types of services.. The European Union's General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\"), will take effect in May 2018 and will require EU member states to meet new and more stringent requirements regarding the handling of personal data.  Failure to meet the GDPR requirements could result in penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. Additionally, compliance with the GDPR is resulting in operational costs to implement new procedures corresponding to new legal rights granted under the law, but has had little direct impact on Nielsen products.  The forthcoming EU \"ePrivacy\" Regulation is expected to have potentially significant impacts for the online/mobile behavioral advertising industry as a whole. Nielsen is continuing to monitor the development of the ePrivacy Regulation and industry response and will determine whether to take further action, as needed, following its final adoption.. We are exposed to risks related to cybersecurity and protection of confidential information.. In the ordinary course of our business, we rely extensively on our people, technology and business operations as well as trusted strategic partners and vendors to provide us with access to data and technology as well as related professional services.  We use several third-party service providers, including cloud providers, to access, store, transmit and process sensitive data. We receive, store and transmit large volumes of proprietary information and data that may contain personally identifiable information of our customers, employees, consumers and suppliers or sensitive client data entrusted to us. Our sensitive data may include our or a client's intellectual property, financial information and business operations data.. An actual or perceived security or privacy breach may affect us in many ways, including:. •  risk of loss of Nielsen and/or client proprietary data or data protected by law, statute or regulation;. •  loss of control of how Nielsen and/or client proprietary data or data protected by law, statute or regulation is re-purposed, shared or disseminated;. •  expose us to potential litigation;. •  expose us to liability;. •  harm our reputation;. •  loss of confidence in security and accuracy of products;. •  deter customers from using our products or services;. •  make it more difficult and expensive to effectively recruit panelists and survey respondents;. •  loss of investor confidence;. •  official sanctions or statutory penalties; and. •  significant increases in cyber security costs.. 18. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price.. Owing to new and emerging technology risks, hackers or unauthorized users who successfully breach our network security, could misappropriate or misuse our proprietary information or cause interruptions in our services. Given the relatively fast pace of changes in new and emerging technology risks, we may not be able to effectively anticipate and/or respond in a timely manner to all foreseeable and/or unforeseeable cyber security risks and events, thereby resulting in a potentially significant loss of client and investor confidence.. Notwithstanding our due diligence for new hires and employee training initiatives, we are at risk for employee malfeasance, inadvertent employee errors and other \"insider risks\" that may breach one or more of our information security provisions or policies. Our response in remediation of these data breaches or interruptions of service may require substantial commitments of resources and we may incur additional, unbudgeted operating and/or capital expenses, such as for specialized cyber security vendors as part of our response.. While prior unauthorized access to our systems has not had a material adverse effect on our financial results, we have taken and are taking reasonable steps to prevent future events, including implementation of system security measures, information back-up and disaster recovery processes. However, these steps may not be effective and there can be no assurance that any such steps can be effective against all possible risks.. Our services involve the receipt, storage and transmission of proprietary information. If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained, our services may be perceived as not being secure and regulators, panelists and survey respondents may hold us liable for disclosure of personal data, and clients and venture partners may hold us liable or reduce their use of our services.. We receive, store and transmit large volumes of proprietary information and data that contain personal information about individuals. Security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and possible liability and our reputation could be damaged. It may also make it more difficult to recruit panelists and survey respondents.  For example, hackers or individuals who attempt to breach our network security could, if successful, misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our services. If we experience any breaches of our network security or sabotage, we might be required to expend significant capital and resources to protect against or to alleviate problems and to respond to regulators' inquiries. We may not be able to remedy any problems caused by hackers or saboteurs in a timely manner, or at all. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target and, as a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose current and potential clients. In addition, we may be subject to investigation and fines by jurisdictions that have data breach notification laws.. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our business could be adversely affected.. Our success depends to an extent upon our ability to develop, use, defend and protect our confidential information, analytics and proprietary methodologies, processes, systems and technologies, and other intellectual property.. We rely on a combination of contractual and confidentiality provisions and procedures, licensing arrangements, and the patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws of the United States and other countries to protect our intellectual property as well as the intellectual property rights of third parties whose content, data and technology we license. These legal measures afford only limited protection and may not provide sufficient protection to prevent the infringement, misuse or misappropriation of our intellectual property.  Although our employees, consultants, clients and collaborators enter into confidentiality agreements with us, our trade secrets, data and know-how could be subject to unauthorized use, misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure.. Our business success depends, in part, on:. <U+25CF>  obtaining patent protection for our technology and services;. <U+25CF>  defending our patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks and other intellectual property;. <U+25CF>  preserving our trade secrets and maintaining the security of our know-how and data; and. <U+25CF>  operating our business without infringing upon intellectual property rights held by third parties.. 19. Our ability to establish, maintain and protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights against theft or infringement could be materially and adversely affected by insufficient and/or changing proprietary rights and intellectual property legal protections in some jurisdictions and markets.  Intellectual property law in several foreign jurisdictions is subject to considerable uncertainty. Our pending patent and trademark applications may not be allowed in certain jurisdictions and inadequate intellectual property laws may limit our rights and ability to detect unauthorized uses or take appropriate, timely and effective steps to remedy unauthorized conduct, to protect or enforce our rights. Such limitations may allow competitors to design around our intellectual property rights, to independently develop non-infringing competing technologies and services, similar to, or duplicative of ours, thereby potentially eroding our competitive position, enabling competitors greater opportunity to capture market share, and consequently negatively impacting our revenues and operating results.  The expiration of certain of our patents may also lead to increased competition.  As such, our patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property may not adequately protect our rights, provide us significant competitive advantage or prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our proprietary rights.. The growing need for global data, along with increased competition and technological advances, puts increasing pressure on us to share our intellectual property for client applications with others, which could result in infringement. Competitors may gain access to our intellectual property and proprietary information.  Third parties that license our intellectual property and proprietary rights may take actions or create incidents that may diminish the value of our rights, harm our business, reduce revenue, increase expenses and harm our reputation.. To prevent or respond to unauthorized uses of our intellectual property, we may be required to enforce our intellectual property rights to protect our confidential and proprietary information by engaging in costly and time-consuming litigation or other proceedings that may be distracting to management, could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property rights and we may not ultimately prevail.. Third parties may claim that we are infringing on their intellectual property and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses, or be prevented from selling products or services, which may adversely impact our operating profits.. We cannot be certain that we do not and will not infringe the intellectual property rights of others in operating our business. In the ordinary course of business, third parties may claim, with or without merit, that one or more of our products or services infringe their intellectual property rights and may subject us to legal proceedings.  In some jurisdictions, plaintiffs can also seek injunctive relief that may limit the operation of our business or prevent the marketing and selling of our services that infringe on the plaintiff's intellectual property rights.. Certain agreements with suppliers or clients contain provisions where we indemnify, subject to certain limitations, the counterparty for damages suffered as a result of claims related to intellectual property infringement and the use of our data.  Infringement claims covered by such indemnity provisions could be expensive to litigate and may result in significant settlement payments.  In certain businesses, we rely on third-party intellectual property licenses and depending upon the outcome of any intellectual property dispute, we cannot ensure that these licenses will be available to us in the future on favorable terms or at all.. Any such claims of intellectual property infringement, even those without merit, could:. •  be expensive and time-consuming to defend;. •  result in our being required to pay possibly significant damages;. •  cause us to cease providing our services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property;. •  require us to redesign or rebrand our services;. •  divert management's attention and resources; and/ or. •  require us to enter into potentially costly royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party's   intellectual property, although royalty or licensing agreements may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all.. Any of the above could have a negative impact on our operating results and could harm our financial condition and prospects.. We analyze and take action in response to such claims on a case by case basis. Any dispute or litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming due to the complexity of our business and technology and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations.. If we do not resolve these claims in advance of a trial, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in court.  A claim of intellectual property infringement could compel us to enter into a license agreement with restrictive terms and/or significant fees, which may or may not be available under acceptable terms or at all, and an adverse judgment could subject us to significant damages or to an injunction against development and sale of certain of our products or services.  We may be required to implement costly redesigns to the affected services, or pay damages to satisfy contractual obligations to others.. 20. Exchange rate fluctuations may negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial position.. We operate globally, deriving approximately 41% of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017 in currencies other than U.S. dollars, with approximately 10% of revenues deriving in Euros. Our U.S. operations earn revenues and incur expenses primarily in U.S. dollars, while our European operations earn revenues and incur expenses primarily in Euros. Outside the United States and the Euro Zone, we generate revenues and expenses predominantly in local currencies. Because of fluctuations (including possible devaluations) in currency exchange rates, we are subject to currency translation exposure on the revenues and profits of these operations, as well as on the value of balance sheet items (including cash) not denominated in U.S. dollars. In addition, we are subject to currency transaction exposure in those instances where transactions are not conducted in the relevant local currency. In certain instances, we may not be able to freely convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars due to governmental limitations placed on such conversions.. Of our $656 million in cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2017, approximately $520 million was held in jurisdictions outside the U.S. We regularly review the amount of cash and cash equivalents held outside of the U.S. to determine the amounts necessary to fund the current operations of our foreign operations and their growth initiatives and amounts needed to service our U.S. indebtedness and related obligations.. Our international operations are exposed to risks which could impede growth in the future.. We continue to explore opportunities in major international markets around the world, including China, Russia, India and Brazil. International operations expose us to various additional risks, which could adversely affect our business, including:. •  costs of customizing services for clients outside of the United States;. •  reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries;. •  the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws;. •  difficulties in managing international operations;. •  longer sales and payment cycles;. •  exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation;. •  exposure to local economic conditions;. •  limitations on the repatriation of funds from foreign operations;. •  exposure to local political conditions, including adverse tax and other government policies and positions, civil unrest and seizure of assets by a foreign government; and. •  the risks of an outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities and acts of terrorism in the jurisdictions in which we operate.. In countries where there has not been a historical practice of using consumer packaged goods retail information or audience measurement information in the buying and selling of advertising time, it may be difficult for us to maintain subscribers.. Additionally, we are subject to complex U.S., European and other regional and local laws and regulations that are applicable to our operations abroad, including trade sanctions laws, anti-corruptions laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act 2010, anti-bribery laws, anti-money laundering laws, and other financial crimes laws.  Although we have implemented internal controls, policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs to deter prohibited practices, such measures may not be effective in preventing employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing such internal policies and violating applicable laws and regulations. Given our operations in the United Kingdom and Continental Europe, we face uncertainty surrounding the implementation and effects of the U.K.'s June 2016 referendum in which voters approved the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union, commonly referred to as \"Brexit.\" It is possible that Brexit will cause increased regulatory and legal complexities and create uncertainty surrounding our business, including our relationships with existing and future clients, suppliers and employees, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial results and operations.. 21. Criticism of our audience measurement service by various industry groups and market segments could adversely affect our business.. Due to the high-profile nature of our services in the media, internet and entertainment information industries, we could become the target of criticism by various industry groups and market segments. We strive to be fair, transparent and impartial in the production of audience measurement services, and the quality of our U.S. ratings services is voluntarily subject to review and accreditation by the Media Rating Council, a voluntary trade organization whose members include many of our key client constituencies. However, criticism of our business by special interests, and by clients with competing and often conflicting demands on our measurement service, could result in government regulation. While we believe that government regulation is unnecessary, no assurance can be given that legislation will not be enacted in the future that would subject our business to regulation, which could adversely affect our business.. A loss of one of our largest clients could adversely impact our results of operations.. Our top ten clients collectively accounted for approximately 22% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017. We cannot assure you that any of our largest clients will continue to use our services to the same extent, or at all, in the future. A loss or decrease in business of one or more of our largest clients, if not replaced by a new client or an increase in business from existing clients, would adversely affect our prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on third parties to provide certain data and services in connection with the provision of our current services.. We rely on third parties to provide certain data and services for use in connection with the provision of our current services and our reliance on third-party data providers is growing. For example, our Buy segment enters into agreements with third parties (primarily retailers of fast-moving consumer goods) to obtain the raw data on retail product sales it processes and edits and from which it creates products and services. These suppliers of data may increase restrictions on our use of such data, fail to adhere to our quality control standards or otherwise satisfactorily perform services, increase the price they charge us for this data or refuse altogether to license the data to us (in some cases because of exclusive agreements they may have entered into with our competitors). Supplier consolidation could put pressure on our cost structure. In addition, we may need to enter into agreements with third parties to assist with the marketing, technical and financial aspects of expanding our services for other types of media. In the event we are unable to use such third party data and services or if we are unable to enter into agreements with third parties, when necessary, our business and/or our potential growth could be adversely affected. In the event that such data and services are unavailable for our use or the cost of acquiring such data and services increases, our business could be adversely affected.. We rely on third parties for the performance of a significant portion of our worldwide information technology and operations functions. A failure to provide these functions in a satisfactory manner could have an adverse effect on our business.. We are dependent upon third parties for the performance of a significant portion of our information technology and operations functions worldwide. The success of our business depends in part on maintaining our relationships with these third parties and their continuing ability to perform these functions in a timely and satisfactory manner. If we experience a loss or disruption in the provision of any of these functions, or they are not performed in a satisfactory manner, we may have difficulty in finding alternate providers on terms favorable to us, or at all, and our business could be adversely affected.. Long-term disruptions in the mail, telecommunication infrastructure and/or air service could adversely affect our business.. Our business is dependent on the use of the mail, telecommunication infrastructure and air service. Long-term disruptions in one or more of these services, which could be caused by events such as natural disasters, the outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities, civil unrest and/or acts of terrorism, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Hardware and software failures, delays in the operations of our data gathering procedures, our computer and communications systems or the failure to implement system enhancements may harm our business.. Our success depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems and our data gathering procedures. A failure of our network or data gathering procedures could impede the processing of data, delivery of databases and services, client orders and day-to-day management of our business and could result in the corruption or loss of data. While many of our services have appropriate disaster recovery plans in place, we currently do not have full backup facilities everywhere in the world to provide redundant network capacity in the event of a system failure. Despite any precautions we may take, damage from fire, floods, hurricanes, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, break-ins and similar events at our various computer facilities, or delays in our data gathering operations due to weather or other acts of nature, could result in interruptions in the flow of data to our servers and to our clients. In addition, any failure by our computer environment to provide our required data communications capacity could result in interruptions in our service. In the event of a delay in the delivery of data, we could be. 22. required to transfer our data collection operations to an alternative provider. Such a transfer could result in significant delays in our ability to deliver our services to our clients and could be costly to implement. Additionally, significant delays in the planned delivery of system enhancements and improvements, or inadequate performance of the systems once they are completed, could damage our reputation and harm our business. Finally, long-term disruptions in infrastructure caused by events such as natural disasters, the outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities, civil unrest and/or acts of terrorism (particularly involving cities in which we have offices) could adversely affect our services. Although we carry property and business interruption insurance, our coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur.. The presence of our Global Technology and Information Center in Florida heightens our exposure to hurricanes and tropical storms, which could disrupt our business.. The technological data processing functions for certain of our U.S. operations are concentrated at our Global Technology and Information Center (\"GTIC\") at a single location in Florida. Our geographic concentration in Florida heightens our exposure to a hurricane, tropical storm or other severe weather events specific to this region. These weather events could cause severe damage to our property and technology and could cause major disruptions to our operations, including our ability to produce and deliver ratings information and Answers on Demand data. Although our GTIC was built in anticipation of severe weather events and we have insurance coverage, if we were to experience a catastrophic loss, we may exceed our policy limits and/or we may have difficulty obtaining similar insurance coverage in the future. As such, a hurricane or tropical storm could have an adverse effect on our business.. Changes in tax laws and the continuing ability to apply the provisions of various international tax treaties may adversely affect our financial results and increase our tax expense.. We operate in over 100 countries, and changes in tax laws, international tax treaties, regulations, related interpretations and tax accounting standards in the United States, the United Kingdom and other countries in which we operate may adversely affect our financial results, particularly our income tax expense, liabilities and cash flow. As a result of the TCJ Act, effective January 1, 2018, our federal corporate income tax rate will be reduced from 35 percent to 21 percent.  We are currently evaluating the potential future impacts of the Act, which also includes a number of provisions that may partially offset the benefit of such rate reduction such as limiting on the deduction for business interest expense, limiting the deduction for certain net operating losses to 80% of the current year taxable income, modifying or repealing many business deductions and credits, as well as other new taxes on certain types of foreign income. The effect of the international provisions of the TCJ Act, which generally establishes a territorial-style system for taxing foreign-source income of U.S. affiliates of multinational corporations, is uncertain. Quantifying all of the future impacts of the TCJ Act is not practicable at this time due to, among other things, the inherent complexities involved and the lack of federal or state guidance in respect of many of these provisions.. In addition, changes in the tax laws of foreign jurisdictions could arise as a result of the base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) action plans issued by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) in 2015 as well as interpretations as to the application of EU rules on tax avoidance, state aid and tax rulings. The OECD, which represents a coalition of member countries, has recommended changes to numerous long-standing tax principles. These changes, if adopted by countries, could increase tax uncertainty and may adversely affect our provision for income taxes. Finally, governments are resorting to more aggressive tax audit tactics and are increasingly considering changes to tax law regimes or policies as a means to cover budgetary shortfalls resulting from the current economic environment.  We are subject to direct and indirect taxes in numerous jurisdictions and the amount of tax we pay is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we file. We have taken and will continue to take tax positions based on our interpretation of tax laws, but tax accounting often involves complex matters and judgment.  Although we believe that we have complied with all applicable tax laws, we have been and expect to continue to be subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions and tax authorities have disagreed, and may in the future disagree, with some of our interpretations of applicable tax law. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits to determine the appropriateness of our tax provisions. However, our judgments may not be sustained on completion of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid could be different from the amounts previously recorded, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. We face increasing competition, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. We are faced with a number of competitors in the markets in which we operate. Some of our competitors in each market may have substantially greater financial, marketing, technological and other resources than we do and may in the future engage in aggressive pricing action to compete with us or develop products and services that are superior to or that achieve greater market acceptance than our products and services. Although we believe we are currently able to compete effectively in each of the various markets in which we participate, we may not be able to do so in the future or be capable of maintaining or further increasing our current market share. Our failure to compete successfully in our various markets could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. 23. We may be subject to antitrust litigation or government investigation in the future, which may result in an award of money damages or force us to change the way we do business.. In the past, certain of our business practices have been investigated by government antitrust or competition agencies, and we have on several occasions been sued by private parties for alleged violations of the antitrust and competition laws of various jurisdictions. Following some of these actions, we have changed certain of our business practices to reduce the likelihood of future litigation. Although each of these material prior legal actions have been resolved, there is a risk based upon the leading position of certain of our business operations that we could, in the future, be the target of investigations by government entities or actions by private parties challenging the legality of our business practices. Also, in markets where the retail trade is concentrated, regulatory authorities may perceive certain of our retail services as potential vehicles for collusive behavior by retailers or manufacturers. There can be no assurance that any such investigation or challenge will not result in an award of money damages, penalties or some form of order that might require a change in the way that we do business, any of which could adversely affect our revenue stream and/or profitability.. Our ability to successfully manage ongoing organizational changes could impact our business results.. In connection with our \"Path to 2020,\" we continue to execute a number of significant business and organizational changes, including workforce optimization projects and acquisitions and divestitures to improve productivity and create efficiencies to support our growth strategies. We expect these types of changes, which may include many staffing adjustments as well as employee departures, to continue for the foreseeable future. Successfully managing these changes, including the identification, engagement and development and retention of key employees to provide uninterrupted leadership and direction for our business, is critical to our success. This includes developing organization capabilities in specific markets, businesses and functions where there is increased demand for specific skills or experiences. Finally, our financial targets assume a consistent level of productivity improvement. If we are unable to deliver expected productivity improvements, while continuing to invest in business growth, our financial results could be adversely impacted.. If we are unable to attract, retain and engage employees, we may not be able to compete effectively and will not be able to expand our business.. Our success and ability to grow are dependent, in part, on our ability to hire, retain and engage sufficient numbers of talented people, with the increasingly diverse skills needed to serve clients and expand our business, in many locations around the world. Competition for highly qualified, specialized technical and managerial, and particularly consulting personnel is intense. Recruiting, training and retention costs and benefits place significant demands on our resources. The inability to attract qualified employees in sufficient numbers to meet particular demands or the loss of a significant number of our employees could have an adverse effect on us, including our ability to execute on productivity initiatives as well as obtain and successfully complete important client engagements and partnerships and thus maintain or increase our revenues.. We have suffered losses due to goodwill impairment charges in the past and could do so again in the future.. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are subject to annual review for impairment (or more frequently should indications of impairment arise). In addition, other intangible assets are also reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. As of December 31, 2017, we had goodwill and intangible assets of $13,572 million. Any downward revisions in the fair value of our reporting units or our intangible assets could result in impairment charges for goodwill and intangible assets that could materially affect our financial performance.. We rely, in part, on acquisitions, joint ventures and other alliances to grow our business and expand our access to technology. If we are unable to complete or integrate acquisitions into our existing operations or successfully develop and maintain joint ventures and other alliances, our growth may be adversely impacted. In addition, the acquisition, integration or divestiture of businesses by us may not produce the expected financial or operating results.. •  We have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions or enter into other strategic transactions to strengthen our business and grow our Company. Such transactions present significant challenges and risks.. •  The market for acquisition targets and other strategic transactions is highly competitive, especially in light of industry consolidation, which may affect our ability to complete such transactions.. •  If we are unsuccessful in completing such transactions at all or within the anticipated time frame or if such opportunities for expansion do not arise, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. 24. •  If such transactions are completed, the anticipated growth and other strategic objectives of such transactions may not be fully realized, and a variety of factors may adversely affect any anticipated benefits from such transactions. For instance, the process of integration may require more resources than anticipated, we may assume unintended liabilities, there may be unexpected regulatory and operating difficulties and expenditures, we may fail to retain key personnel of the acquired business, we may fail to combine our businesses with the business of the acquired company in a manner that permits cost savings to be realized and such transactions may divert management's focus from base strategies and objectives.. •  Acquisitions outside of the United States increase our exposure to risks associated with foreign operations, including fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and compliance with foreign laws and regulations.. •  The anticipated benefits from an acquisition or other strategic transaction may take longer to realize than expected or may not be realized fully. As a result, the failure of acquisitions and other strategic transactions to perform as expected could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted by our U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans.. The performance of the financial markets and interest rates impact our plan expenses, plan assets and funding obligations.  Changes in market interest rates, decreases in our pension trust assets or investment losses could increase our funding obligations, which would negatively impact our operations and financial condition.. Ineffective internal controls could impact our business and operating results.. Our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in its implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed and we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations.. Future legislation, regulatory reform or policy changes under the current U.S. administration could have a material effect on our business and results of operations.. Future legislation, regulatory reform or policy changes under the current U.S. administration, such as financial services regulatory reform, U.S. oil deregulation, government-sponsored enterprise (GSE) reform and increased infrastructure spending, could impact our business. At this time, we cannot predict the scope or nature of these changes or assess what the overall effect of such potential changes could be on our results of operations or cash flows.. Inadvertent use of certain open source software could impose unanticipated limitations upon our ability to commercialize our products and services or subject our proprietary code to public disclosure if not properly managed.. We use open source software in our technology, most often as small components supporting a larger product or service and it is also contained in some third-party software that we rely upon. There are many types of open source licenses, some of which are quite complex, and most have not been interpreted or adjudicated by U.S. or other courts.  Although we do have an open source use policy and practice, inadvertent use of certain open source licenses could impose unanticipated limitations upon our ability to commercialize our products and services or subject our proprietary code to public disclosure if not properly managed.  Remediation of such issues may involve licensing the software on less than unfavorable terms or require remedial actions including a need to re-engineer our products and services, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. If our clients experience financial distress, or seek to change or delay payment terms, it could negatively affect our own financial position and results.. We have a large and diverse client base and, at any given time, one or more of our clients may experience financial difficulty, file for bankruptcy protection or go out of business. Unfavorable economic and financial conditions could result in an increase in client financial difficulties that affect us. The direct impact on us could include reduced revenues and write-offs of accounts receivable and expenditures billable to clients, and if these effects were severe, the indirect impact could include impairments of intangible assets, credit facility covenant violations and reduced liquidity.. 25. Failure to meet the financial performance guidance or other forward-looking statements we have provided to the public could result in a decline in our stock price.. We may provide public guidance on our expected financial results or other forward-looking information for future periods. Although we believe that this guidance provides investors and analysts with a better understanding of management's expectations for the future and is useful to our existing and potential stockholders, such guidance is comprised of forward-looking statements subject to the risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other public filings and public statements. Our actual results may not be in line with the guidance we provide. If our financial results for a particular period do not meet our guidance or the expectations of market participants or if we reduce our guidance for future periods, the market price of our common stock may decline.. Design defects, errors, failures or delays associated with our products or services, could negatively impact our business.. Despite testing, software, products and services that we develop, license or distribute may contain errors or defects when first released or when major new updates or enhancements are released that cause the product or service to operate incorrectly or less effectively. Many of our products and services also rely on data and services provided by third-party providers over which we have no control and may be provided to us with defects, errors or failures. We may also experience delays while developing and introducing new products and services for various reasons, such as difficulties in licensing data inputs or adapting to particular operating environments. Defects, errors or delays in our products or services that are significant, or are perceived to be significant, could result in rejection or delay in market acceptance, damage to our reputation, loss of revenue, a lower rate of license renewals or upgrades, diversion of development resources, product liability claims or regulatory actions, or increases in service and support costs. We may also need to expend significant capital resources to eliminate or work around defects, errors, failures or delays. In each of these ways, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely impacted."
