[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investors should be aware that we and our business are subject to various risks, including the risks described below. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and investors may lose all or part of any investment. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in any forward-looking statements that we make as a result of a variety of factors, including the risks described below. Please note that additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business and operations.. Risks Relating to Our Business and Results. 1. Because our free cash flow was negative, and is expected to continue to be negative, we will likely need to meet our obligations and fund our working capital with cash on hand and through the recovery of amounts held in escrow.. Our free cash flow was negative in 2016 and 2017, and based on our current plans, we expect our free cash flow to remain negative through at least 2018. Our current plans are based on a number of key assumptions relating to, among other things, our ability to manage our capital and operating expenses and to attract and retain customers. If any of our assumptions are not borne out or are otherwise not correct, our free cash flow could continue to be negative for an extended period of time. There can be no assurance that we will succeed in executing on our plans or that we will generate positive free cash flow in the future.. Our current sources of funding include our cash and short-term investments, cash held in escrow to secure our indemnification obligations in connection with the sale of Nextel Mexico, and cash pledged as collateral to secure certain performance bonds relating to our obligations to deploy our WCDMA spectrum in Brazil. We recovered substantially all of our cash pledged to secure performance bonds in January 2018.. Based on the challenging competitive environment in Brazil that we anticipate will continue, as well as the loss of revenues associated with the shutdown of our iDEN business, we expect that our cash flow from operations will be negative in 2018. In addition, we expect that our capital expenditures for 2018 will be at similar levels to those experienced in 2017. If we do not execute on our business plan, we may need to raise incremental capital to fund our business plan. Furthermore, if the ultimate amount recovered from our cash held in escrow does not meet our current forecasted amount or is delayed for a significant amount of time, we would need to obtain additional funding and/or significantly reduce our planned spending to further preserve our liquidity. If we cannot obtain access to a significant portion of the escrowed funds as anticipated in our business plan and execute on our business plan, or obtain suitable financing if and when it is required, our results of operations and liquidity would be negatively impacted, and we may be unable to settle our obligations as they come due.. 2. If we are not able to compete effectively in the highly competitive wireless communications industry, our future growth and operating results will suffer.. Our business involves selling wireless communications services to subscribers, and as a result, our economic success is based on our ability to attract new subscribers and retain current subscribers. Our success will depend on Nextel Brazil's ability to compete effectively with other telecommunications services providers, including other wireless telecommunications companies, internet and cable service providers and providers of fixed wireline services, in Brazil. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the telecommunications industry in Brazil, including the availability of new services, features and technologies; changes in consumer preferences, demographic trends and economic conditions; our ability to fund our operations; and our competitors' pricing strategies.. Over the past two years, our results of operations, including our operating revenues and operating cash flows, have been negatively affected by a number of factors, including significant deterioration in economic conditions in Brazil that have recently begun a slow recovery, increased competitive pressure, the overall depreciation of the value of the Brazilian real relative to the U.S. dollar from 2015 to 2016, and the decline in our iDEN subscriber base resulting from the limited digital services available on our legacy iDEN network. These and other factors resulted in a reduction in our subscriber growth and revenues at a time when our costs reflected the operation of two networks and had a significant negative impact on our results and our ability to grow our revenue base to a level sufficient to reach the scale required to generate positive operating income.. 9. We believe that the wireless communications industry in Brazil has been and will continue to be characterized by intense competition on the basis of price; the types of services offered; variety, features and pricing of handsets; speed of data access; and quality of service. In recent years, the prices we have been able to charge for services in Brazil have declined as a result of intensified price competition, including the introduction by our competitors of aggressive pricing promotions, such as plans that allow shared minutes between groups of callers and even more aggressive pricing plans that provide more services for lower rates than the plans we offer, which together with the impact of deteriorating economic conditions, reduced the number of new subscribers we added to our network in 2016 and 2017. This increased competition may continue to affect our ability to attract and retain subscribers in the future, which could impact our ability to execute on our business plan and negatively impact our operating results.. a. The wireless industry in Brazil is highly competitive, making it difficult for us to attract and retain customers. If we are unable to attract and retain customers, our financial performance will be impaired.. Competition among telecommunications service providers in Brazil is intense as multiple carriers seek to attract and retain customers. Some of the factors contributing to this competitive environment include the current economic environment in Brazil; a higher relative penetration of wireless services compared to historic levels, which drives more aggressive competition as competitors seek to attract and retain customers that support the growth of their businesses in a more saturated market; the development and availability of new products and services, including services supported by new technologies; and the entry of new competitors. We also expect the current trend of alliances, cost-sharing arrangements and consolidation in the wireless and communications industries to continue as companies respond to the need for cost reduction and additional spectrum. This trend may result in the creation of larger and more efficient competitors with greater financial, technical, promotional and other resources to compete with our businesses. In addition, as we continue to pursue our plans to expand our marketing and sales focus on consumers, we will be increasingly seeking to attract customers in segments that have historically been predominantly served by our competitors, many of which are larger companies with more extensive networks, financial resources and benefits of scale that allow them to spend more money on marketing and advertising than us and to exploit scale advantages that allow them to offer products and services at a lower cost.. In order to obtain a competitive advantage, our competitors have, among other things:. •provided discounted or free airtime or other services;. •provided increased handset subsidies;. •offered higher commissions to distributors;. •offered a broader range of handsets and, in some cases, offered those handsets through exclusivity periods;. •expanded their networks to provide more extensive network coverage;. •developed and deployed networks that use new technologies and support new or improved services;. •offered incentives to larger customers to switch service providers, including reimbursement of cancellation fees; and. •offered bundled telecommunications services that include local, long distance and data services.. In addition, number portability requirements, which enable customers to switch wireless providers without changing their wireless numbers, have been implemented in Brazil, making it easier for wireless providers to effectively target and attract their competitors' customers.. The competitive environment in Brazil and competitive strategies of our competitors, including recent price competition, will put pressure on the prices we can charge for our services and for handsets and other devices that we sell in connection with our service offerings. These developments and actions by our competitors could continue to negatively impact our ARPU, our operating results and our ability to attract and retain customers. If we are unable to respond to competition and compensate for declining prices by adding new customers, increasing usage and offering new services, our revenues and profitability could continue to decline.. 10. b. Competition and technological changes in the market for wireless services, including competition driven by our competitors' deployment of long-term evolution or other advanced technologies, could negatively affect our average revenue per subscriber, customer turnover, operating costs and our ability to attract new subscribers, resulting in adverse effects on our revenues, future cash flows, growth and profitability. If we do not keep pace with rapid technological changes or if we fail to offer new services in a manner that delivers a quality customer experience, we may not be able to attract and retain customers.. The wireless telecommunications industry is experiencing significant technological change. Spending by our competitors on new wireless services and network improvements could enable them to obtain a competitive advantage with new technologies or enhancements that we do not offer. Rapid change in technology may lead to the development of wireless communications technologies that support products or services that consumers prefer over the products or services that we offer. If we are unable to keep pace with future advances in competing technologies on a timely basis, or at an acceptable cost, we may not be able to compete effectively and could lose subscribers to our competitors.. While we have deployed and are offering services on our WCDMA network in Brazil and are continuing to expand and supplement that network, including by offering services utilizing LTE technologies in São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, our competitors in Brazil have launched nationwide new or upgraded networks that use WCDMA and/or LTE technology and offer services that use high speed data transmission capabilities, including internet access and video telephony.  These and other future technological advancements may enable competitors to offer features or services we cannot provide or exceed the quality of services we offer, thereby making our services less competitive. In addition, we may not be able to accurately predict technological trends or the success of new services in the market. If our services fail to gain acceptance in the marketplace in the near term, or if costs associated with implementation and completion of the introduction of these services materially increase, our ability to retain and attract customers could continue to be adversely affected.. In Brazil, our current 800 MHz spectrum holdings are largely contiguous, making it possible to use that spectrum to support future technologies, if certain technical, operational and regulatory requirements are met, including, for example, the availability of compatible network and subscriber equipment. Although our spectrum holdings in Brazil are contiguous, they are not located in the same portion of the 800 MHz spectrum band that is currently being used to support LTE network deployments elsewhere in the world including in the United States. Accordingly, it may be necessary to seek regulatory changes and to reconfigure the spectrum band and our spectrum holdings for them to be used to efficiently support LTE technologies.. c. Most of our competitors are financially stronger than we are, which limits our ability to compete based on price.. Because of their size, scale and resources, our competitors may be able to offer services to subscribers at prices that are below the prices that we can offer for comparable services. Many of our competitors are well-established companies that have:. •substantially greater financial and marketing resources;. •larger customer bases;. •larger spectrum positions;. •higher profitability and positive free cash flow;. •more access to funding, lower leverage and lower cost of financing; and. •larger service coverage areas than those of our operating companies.. If we cannot compete effectively based on the price of our service offerings and related cost structure, our results of operations may be adversely affected.. 11. d. We are dependent on our competitors for support services that are critical to our operations.. We rely on our competitors for certain support services that are critical to our operations. For example, the services that we provide on our WCDMA network require significant data capacity, and this capacity demand has made it necessary for us to obtain wireline or other connecting circuits between elements of our network such as switches and transmitter and receiver sites that are capable of transporting a significantly higher volume of data traffic. In some instances, the availability of those higher capacity circuits is limited, and in many cases, our access to those circuits is controlled by entities that are affiliated with our competitors. Similarly, we have entered into roaming arrangements with one of our competitors that allow us to expand the coverage of our WCDMA network in Brazil by allowing our subscribers to roam on that competitor's network in areas outside our coverage area. Likewise, we have entered into a 10-year radio access network, or RAN, sharing agreement with the same competitor under which we are permitted to use its tower and equipment infrastructure to transmit telecommunications signals on Nextel Brazil's spectrum. As a result, we are dependent on entities that are or are affiliated with our competitors to provide us with the data transport services needed to support our networks and services, roaming services and infrastructure that enhance our coverage area. Our ability to offer services and our results of operations could be adversely affected if those entities were to allocate limited transport or network capacity to other customers including their wireless affiliates or otherwise make it more difficult for us to obtain the necessary transport and roaming capacity to support our networks and services.. e. If there is a substantial increase in our customer turnover rate, our business could be negatively affected.. In recent years, we have experienced higher customer turnover rates compared to earlier periods, which resulted primarily from the combined impact of weaker economic conditions and a more competitive sales environment in Brazil. In addition, there has been a significant increase in our customer turnover rate for subscribers to services on our iDEN network as customers increasingly prefer services that are supported by high speed data capabilities including services on smartphones. Likewise, WCDMA subscriber turnover increased significantly as a result of more intense competition in the wireless market and the economic factors discussed above.. In addition, we have broadened our target market to include customers that have typically demonstrated a willingness to change service providers more frequently and have increased our usage of control plan payment terms as part of our service plans in order to attract more price sensitive customers. These and other changes in our marketing strategies and the types of customers we target have recently had a negative impact on our consolidated customer turnover rate and could continue to have that impact in the future. Subscriber losses adversely affect our business and results of operations because these losses result in lost revenues and cash flow, drive higher bad debt expenses and require us to attract replacement customers and incur the related sales commissions and other costs. Although attracting new subscribers and retaining existing subscribers are both important to the financial viability of our business, there is an added focus on retaining existing subscribers because the average cost of acquiring a new subscriber is higher. Accordingly, increased levels of subscriber deactivations have had and could continue to have a negative impact on our results, even if we are able to attract new subscribers at a rate sufficient to offset those deactivations. If we experience increases in our customer turnover rate, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. f. If our networks do not perform in a manner that meets subscriber expectations, we will be unable to attract and retain customers.. Customer acceptance of the services we offer on our networks is and will continue to be affected by technology-based differences and by the operational performance and reliability of these networks. We may have difficulty attracting and retaining customers if: we are unable to satisfactorily address and resolve performance or other transmission quality issues as they arise; these issues limit our ability to deploy or expand our network capacity as currently planned; or these issues place us at a competitive disadvantage to other wireless providers.. g. Customer concerns about our financial condition and ability to implement our business plan, including our network development and deployment efforts, may have an additional adverse effect on our ability to attract and retain customers.. When deciding whether to continue or begin service with us, our customers may take our medium- to long-term operating and financial outlook, particularly to the extent that it is perceived to impact our network deployment and development, into account. If customers or potential customers who are aware of our recent results of operations, or of current and future adjustments to our business in response to those results, become concerned that we will be unable to continue to provide service to them at a quality level that meets their needs, customer deactivations could increase and new subscribers could decrease. We assume that customers will find our services attractive and that we will be able to increase our subscriber base. However, given the factors that have negatively affected our business and the difficulties associated with predicting our ability to overcome these factors, there can be no assurance that these assumptions will prove to be correct. Increases in customer deactivations and decreases in new. 12. subscribers would adversely affect our revenues and our ability to generate the cash needed to fund our business and meet our other obligations.. 3. We operate exclusively in Brazil, and our assets, subscribers and cash flows are concentrated in Brazil, which presents risks to our operating plans.. As a holding company with operations solely in Brazil, our growth and operating results are dependent on the strength and stability of the economic, political and regulatory environments in that country. Changes in the economic, political and regulatory environment or foreign currency exchange rates in Brazil will have a more significant impact on our operating results than has been the case historically when we held operations in multiple Latin American markets. As a result, our business and operations will be subject to a higher degree of risk and volatility due to the impact of the risks described below.. a. A decline in the foreign exchange rate of the Brazilian real may adversely affect our growth and our operating results.. Historically, the value of the Brazilian real relative to the U.S. dollar has been volatile. Recent weakness in the economy in Brazil has led to increased volatility in the real compared to the U.S. dollar. Nearly all of our revenues are earned in Brazilian reais, but we report our results in U.S. dollars. As a result, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have had and can have a significant impact on our reported results that may not reflect the operating trends in our business. In addition, all of our outstanding debt is owed by Nextel Brazil, and 36% of the principal amount of our total debt outstanding is denominated in U.S. dollars. A decline in the value of the Brazilian real makes it more costly for us to service our U.S. dollar-denominated debt obligations and affects our operating results because we generate nearly all of our revenues in Brazilian reais, but we pay for some of our operating expenses and capital expenditures in U.S. dollars. Further, because we report our results of operations in U.S. dollars, a decline in the value of the Brazilian real relative to the U.S. dollar result in reductions in our reported revenues, as well as a reduction in the carrying value of our assets, including the value of cash investments held in Brazilian reais. Depreciation of the Brazilian real also results in increased costs to us for imported equipment. Historically, we have entered into some limited hedging arrangements to mitigate short-term volatility in foreign exchange rates, but have not hedged against long-term movements in foreign exchange rates because the alternatives currently available for hedging against those movements are limited and costly. As a result, if the value of the Brazilian real continues to depreciate relative to the U.S. dollar, we would expect our reported operating results in future periods, and the value of our assets held in Brazilian reais, to be adversely affected.. b. We face economic and political risks operating in Brazil, which may limit our ability to implement our strategy and could negatively impact our financial flexibility, including our ability to repatriate and redeploy profits, and may disrupt our operations or hurt our performance.. Our operations depend on the economy in Brazil, which is considered to be an emerging market and has historically been subject to volatile economic cycles. Recently, Brazil has experienced one of the worst economic recessions in its history. As a result, the economic environment in Brazil has been impacted by years of significant and rapid fluctuation in terms of commodity prices, local consumer prices, employment levels, gross domestic product, interest rates and inflation rates. These economic conditions have affected the wireless telecommunications industry in Brazil, leading to lower customer credit and pressure on customer demand, pricing and customer turnover, and negatively impacting our ability to attract and retain subscribers. It is estimated that Brazil's GDP fell about 3% from 2015 to 2016, but improved by about 1% in 2017 compared to 2016. Brazil's unemployment rate was about 11% at the end of 2016 and reached the highest it had been in decades at 12% at the end of 2017. Real wages in Brazil fell in the first half of 2017, but grew steadily in the second half of 2017. If the current economic conditions worsen, the economic environment in Brazil may negatively impact our ability to meet our business plan.. In addition, in some instances, the economy in Brazil has also been negatively affected by other factors, including volatile political conditions. We are unable to predict the impact that local or national elections and the associated transfer of power from incumbent officials or political parties to newly elected officials or parties may have on the local economy or the growth and development of the local telecommunications industry. Changes in leadership or in the ruling party in Brazil may affect the economic programs developed under the prior administration, which in turn, may adversely affect the economy there. Other risks associated with political instability could include the risk of expropriation or nationalization of our assets by the government. We expect political, economic and social conditions in Brazil to affect our business, including our access to capital markets to obtain funding needed for our business or to refinance our existing indebtedness.. 13. c. Our operating company is subject to local laws and government regulations, and we are subject to U.S. laws and regulations, which could limit our growth and strategic plans and negatively impact our financial results.. Our operations are subject to local laws and regulations in Brazil, which may differ substantially from those in the U.S., and we could become subject to penalties if we do not comply with those local laws and regulations. In addition, we are subject to U.S. laws and regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA. The FCPA prohibits us from providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purpose of influencing official decisions or obtaining or retaining business. Our employees and agents interact with government officials on our behalf, including interactions necessary to obtain licenses and other regulatory approvals necessary to operate our business and through contracts to provide wireless service to government entities, creating a risk that actions may occur that could violate the FCPA. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with local laws and regulations as well as U.S. laws and regulations, including the FCPA, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, consultants, contractors and agents will abide by our policies. The penalties for violating the FCPA can be severe. Any violations of law, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. In addition, in Brazil, government regulatory agencies regulate the licensing, construction, acquisition, ownership and operation of our wireless communications systems, as well as the granting, maintenance and renewal of licenses to use spectrum and radio frequencies. Adoption of new regulations, changes in the current telecommunications laws or regulations or changes in the manner in which they are interpreted or applied could adversely affect our operations by increasing our costs, reducing our revenues or making it more difficult for us to compete. In order to maintain our licenses, we are required to use the related spectrum in an efficient manner. In connection with the shutdown of our iDEN network, we believe we have a plan to meet our spectrum use requirements for the 800 MHz spectrum underlying that network. If ANATEL does not agree that we are meeting our requirements, we could be required to return our 800 MHz spectrum before its expiration. In addition, ANATEL is considering pricing for a conversion of our 800 MHz spectrum from a trunking license for radio services as private systems to public systems. If we are unwilling or unable to pay the conversion price set by ANATEL, we will be unable to renew the spectrum licenses for our 800 MHz spectrum, if a renewal becomes available, and could be subject to forfeiture of this spectrum. Our business may be negatively impacted if changes are implemented that:. • affect the terms of interconnection arrangements that allow our subscribers to complete calls to our competitors' subscribers, including the charges imposed for the completion of those calls;. • establish restrictions that limit or otherwise affect the deployment of transmitter and receiver sites needed to support the coverage and capacity of our networks;. • establish minimum network construction, coverage or quality of service obligations that can result in increased capital investments or require other changes to our business;. • establish prices Nextel Brazil is required to charge for its services or impose other terms of service that can affect our revenues or costs; or. • impose foreign ownership limitations on telecommunications providers that may affect our ability to own and operate our business.. There has also been an increased focus on service and quality standards in Brazil as the local government monitors telecommunications providers' voice quality, customer complaints, call failure rates, capacity to handle call traffic levels in peak calling periods and failed interconnection of calls, which could potentially increase our operating costs and affect rates charged to subscribers. In addition, regulations in Brazil permit third parties, including our competitors, to challenge our actions or decisions of the regulators that potentially benefit us, such as decisions regarding the allocation and licensing of spectrum. If our competitors are successful in pursuing claims such as these, or if the regulators in Brazil take actions against us in response to actions initiated by our competitors, our ability to grow our business and improve our results of operations could be adversely affected.. Finally, rules and regulations affecting placement and construction of our transmitter and receiver sites affect our ability to deploy and operate our networks, and therefore impact our business strategies. In some instances, local governments have adopted very stringent rules and regulations related to the placement and construction of wireless towers, which can significantly impede the planned expansion of our service coverage area or require us to remove or modify existing towers, which can result in unplanned costs, negatively impact network performance and impose new and onerous taxes and fees.. 14. d. We pay significant import duties on our network equipment and handsets, and any increases could impact our financial results.. Our operations are highly dependent upon the successful and cost-efficient importation of network equipment and handsets and other devices from locations outside Brazil. Network equipment and handsets may be subject to significant import duties and other taxes. Any significant increase in import duties in the future could significantly increase our costs. To the extent we cannot pass these costs on to our customers, our financial results will be negatively impacted.. e. We are subject to taxes, which may reduce the revenues of our operating subsidiary in Brazil, reduce the amounts we receive from Nextel Brazil, increase our tax costs and impact our cash flows.. The government in Brazil, including the local municipalities, has increasingly turned to new taxes, as well as aggressive interpretations of current tax law, as a method of increasing revenue. For example, Nextel Brazil is required to pay two types of income taxes, which include a corporate income tax and a social contribution tax, and is subject to various types of non-income related taxes, including value-added tax, excise tax, service tax, importation tax and property tax. In addition, the reduction in tax revenues resulting from the economic downturn that has occurred in the last several years has led to proposals and new laws that increase the taxes imposed on sales of handsets and on telecommunications services. The provisions of new tax laws may attempt to prohibit us from passing these taxes on to our customers or our ability to do so may be limited by competitive conditions. These taxes may reduce the amount of earnings that we can generate from our services or in some cases may result in operating losses.. In addition, Nextel Brazil has received various assessment notices from municipal, state and federal Brazilian authorities asserting deficiencies in payments related primarily to value-added taxes and other non-income based taxes. Nextel Brazil has filed various administrative and legal petitions disputing these assessments. In some cases, Nextel Brazil has received favorable decisions, which are currently being appealed by the respective governmental authority. In other cases, Nextel Brazil's petitions have been denied, and Nextel Brazil is currently appealing those decisions. In connection with these petitions, Nextel Brazil is regularly required to make a judicial guarantee through a deposit of cash to cover the amount in dispute in order to file and/or appeal claims. These judicial guarantees are not released until a pending matter is resolved. Future judicial guarantees could be material and could negatively impact our cash flows.. Distributions of earnings and other payments, including interest, received from Nextel Brazil may be subject to withholding taxes imposed by Brazil. Any of these taxes will reduce the amount of after-tax cash we can receive from our operations.. In general, a U.S. corporation may claim a foreign tax credit against its Federal income tax expense for foreign withholding taxes and, under certain circumstances, for its share of foreign income taxes paid directly by foreign corporate entities in which the company owns 10% or more of the voting stock. Our ability to claim foreign tax credits is, however, subject to numerous limitations, and we may incur incremental tax costs as a result of these limitations or because we do not have U.S. Federal taxable income.. We may also be required to include in our income for U.S. Federal income tax purposes our proportionate share of specified earnings of our foreign corporate subsidiaries that are classified as controlled foreign corporations, without regard to whether distributions have been actually received from these subsidiaries.. f. We have entered into a number of agreements that are subject to enforcement in foreign countries, which may limit efficient dispute resolution.. A number of the agreements that we and our subsidiaries enter into with third parties are governed by the laws of, and are subject to dispute resolution in the courts of or through arbitration proceedings in, the countries or regions in which the operations are located. We cannot accurately predict whether these forums will provide effective and efficient means of resolving disputes that may arise. Even if we are able to obtain a satisfactory decision through arbitration or a court proceeding, we could have difficulty enforcing any award or judgment on a timely basis. Our ability to obtain or enforce relief in the U.S. is also uncertain.. 15. 4. The costs we incur to connect our networks with those of other carriers are subject to local laws and may increase, which could adversely impact our financial results.. Nextel Brazil must connect its telecommunication networks with those of other carriers in order to provide the services we offer. We incur costs relating to these interconnection arrangements and for local, long distance and data transport services relating to the connection of our transmitter sites and other network equipment. These costs include interconnection charges and fees, charges for terminating calls on the other carriers' networks and transport costs, most of which are measured based on the level of our use of the related services. We are able to recover a portion of these costs through revenues earned from charges we are entitled to bill other carriers for terminating calls on our network, but because users of mobile telecommunications services who purchase those services under contract generally, and our customers in particular, tend to make more calls that terminate on other carriers' networks and because we have a smaller number of customers than most other carriers, we incur more charges than we are entitled to receive under these arrangements. The terms of the interconnection and transport arrangements, including the rates that we pay, are subject to varying degrees of local regulation, and often require us to negotiate agreements with the other carriers, most of which are our competitors, in order to provide our services. Our costs relating to these interconnection and transport arrangements are subject to fluctuation both as a result of changes in regulations and the negotiations with the other carriers. Changes in our customers' calling patterns that result in more of our customers' calls terminating on our competitors' networks and changes in the interconnection arrangements either as a result of regulatory changes or negotiated terms that are less favorable to us could result in increased costs for the related services that we may not be able to recover through increased revenues, which could adversely impact our financial results.. 5. We own Nextel Brazil through a partnership with ice group.. On June 5, 2017, we and ice group entered into an investment agreement to partner in the ownership of Nextel Brazil. On July 20, 2017, ice group completed its initial investment of $50.0 million in Nextel Holdings, which indirectly owns Nextel Brazil, in exchange for 30% ownership in Nextel Holdings. The investment agreement also provided ice group with an option, exercisable on or before November 15, 2017, to invest an additional $150.0 million in Nextel Holdings for an additional 30% ownership. ice group did not exercise its option, and on February 27, 2018, we terminated the investment agreement with ice group, which remains a minority investor in Nextel Brazil.. a. Our interests and the interests of our stockholders may not align with the interests of ice group, and actions by ice group could negatively impact our performance.. ice group currently owns 30% of Nextel Holdings, which indirectly owns Nextel Brazil. Pursuant to our shareholders agreement with ice group, the Board of Managers of Nextel Holdings is comprised of five members, with three members appointed by us and, after regulatory approval and as long as ice group maintains at least a 30% stake in Nextel Holdings, two nominees and one observer from ice group. In addition, the shareholders agreement with ice group provides for certain minority protective rights relating to certain significant actions of Nextel Holdings and Nextel Brazil. Consequently, we and our stockholders have less influence on the management and policies of Nextel Brazil after ice group's initial investment than we previously had. ice group may at any time have economic or business interests or goals which are, or which become, inconsistent with the business interests or goals of us and our stockholders, and could attempt to influence or take actions that are contrary to our requests, policies or objectives. The shareholders agreement remains in effect, and we intend to continue to meet all of our obligations in the shareholders agreement.. In addition, our partnership with ice group carries additional risks, including the possibility that:. • we may incur liabilities as a result of an action taken by ice group;. • disputes between us and ice group could arise which could distract management from focusing time and efforts on our business, result in an impasse or ultimately in litigation or arbitration or otherwise have a negative influence on our partnership and our ability to successfully operate Nextel Brazil; and. • the transfer restrictions, rights of first refusal, and \"tag along\" and \"drag along\" rights contained in our agreements with ice group could restrict our or ice group's ability to exit the joint venture if desired or discourage a third party transaction that might be in the best interests of stockholders.. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our stock price, business and cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.. 16. b. ice group's second investment in Nextel Holdings was not completed, which could negatively impact us.. On July 20, 2017, we and ice group completed ice group's initial $50.0 million investment in Nextel Holdings. In the second stage of the transaction, ice group had an option to invest an additional $150.0 million in Nextel Holdings, which would have increased its ownership to 60%. ice group's option to make this second investment was discretionary, and it chose not to exercise this option prior to its expiration. ice group's decision not to exercise its option may result in various negative consequences, including the potential need to obtain additional funding in the future. If we are unsuccessful in raising additional capital, if and when needed, our results of operations and liquidity, as well as our ability to invest in and grow our business, could be negatively impacted, which could negatively impact future operating results.. In addition, our business may have been adversely affected by the failure to pursue other beneficial opportunities due to the focus of management on our partnership with ice group. We have incurred substantial expenses in connection with the negotiation and completion of the ice group investment, and we may not realize the full expected benefits of our partnership with ice group. In addition, ice group has a significant influence over Nextel Holdings' operations and certain rights pursuant to the shareholders agreement, which could make it more difficult to pursue another transaction or obtain additional funding. ice group's failure to complete the second investment may also result in negative reactions from the financial markets or from our customers, vendors and employees, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price, business and cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.. 6. Our failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting may adversely affect the accuracy and timeliness of our financial reporting.. As described in \"Part II.  Item 9A.  Controls and Procedures,\" included in this annual report on Form 10-K, we disclosed a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting due to a continuing material weakness in our information and communication process and our control environment. During 2017, we did not have a sufficient number of experienced resources at Nextel Brazil, which impacted, among other things, our ability to reach timely conclusions and validate the completeness and accuracy of information used to support various accounting analyses, which resulted in immaterial misstatements, some of which were corrected, and control deficiencies across multiple accounts. Management is committed to dedicating the resources necessary to ensure sustained effective control design and operation is achieved, and will continue to work to ensure we maintain sufficient experienced resources, automate processes, and monitor risks related to new accounting requirements or changes that could place an unmanageable strain on our resources.. Our inability to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, as described above, combined with issues or delays in implementing improvements, could result in a material misstatement to our financial statements or other disclosures, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 7. Our business could be negatively impacted by our reliance on indirect distribution channels for a significant portion of our sales.. Our business depends upon third party distribution channels for securing a portion of the new customers to our services. In some instances, we rely on these third party dealers and retailers to serve as the primary contact between us and the customer and to interact with other third parties on our behalf. As a result, there may be risks associated with the actions taken by our distributors or the operators of our other retail channels, including potential risks associated with the failure of our distributors or other retail channels to follow regulatory requirements. The volume of our new customer additions, our ability to retain customers and our profitability could also be adversely affected if these third party dealers or retailers terminate their relationship with us, if there are adverse changes in our relationships with them, if we alter our compensation arrangements with these dealers or retailers or if the financial condition of these dealers or retailers deteriorates.. 17. 8. If our licenses to provide mobile services are not renewed, or are modified or revoked, our business may be restricted.. Wireless communications licenses and spectrum allocations are subject to ongoing review and, in some cases, to modification or early termination for failure to comply with applicable regulations. If Nextel Brazil fails to comply with the terms of its licenses and other regulatory requirements, including installation deadlines and minimum loading or service availability requirements, they could be fined or their licenses could be revoked. We believe that Nextel Brazil is in compliance with the applicable operational requirements of its licenses in all material respects. Further, compliance with these requirements is a condition for eligibility for license renewal. Most of our wireless communications licenses have fixed terms and are not renewed automatically. Because governmental authorities have discretion to grant or renew licenses, our licenses may not be renewed or, if renewed, renewal may not be on acceptable economic terms. In addition, regulations in Brazil permit third parties, including our competitors, to challenge the award and use of our licenses. If our competitors are successful in pursuing claims such as these, or if regulators in Brazil take actions modifying or revoking our licenses in response to these claims, our ability to grow our business and improve our results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. 9.   If we are not able to manage changes to our business, our operating results will suffer.. Our ability to achieve our long-range business goals and to grow profitably is dependent on our ability to manage changes to our business model and cost structure that are necessary to allow us to pursue our plans to expand both our service offerings and our targeted customer segments, including by implementing new and more efficient supporting business systems and processes.  Our inability to complete these efforts in a timely fashion, or to manage the related costs, could have an adverse impact on our business.. a. We may be limited in our ability to grow unless we successfully expand network capacity and launch competitive services.. To continue to successfully retain our existing customers, increase our customer base and grow our business, we must economically:. •expand the capacity and coverage of our network in Brazil;. • secure sufficient transmitter and receiver sites at appropriate locations to meet planned system coverage and capacity targets;. •obtain adequate quantities of base radios and other system infrastructure equipment; and. •obtain an adequate volume and mix of handsets to meet customer demand.. In particular, the deployment and expansion of the coverage and capacity of our WCDMA network and the deployment of LTE technology in Brazil has required us to deploy new transmitter and receiver sites in order to meet the expanded coverage and capacity requirements for those networks resulting from differences in our commercial strategies, differences in the propagation characteristics of the spectrum bands being used to support our network in Brazil and the coverage requirements associated with the spectrum licenses being utilized to support our services. In some areas that we serve, individuals and governments are opposing new tower construction and supporting laws restricting the construction of towers and other transmitter and receiver sites. Compliance with such laws could increase the time and costs associated with our planned network deployments. The effort required to locate and build a significant number of additional transmitter sites to support our services in coming years will be substantial, and our failure to meet this demand could adversely affect our business.. In addition, as we launch a broader array of services on our network in Brazil, we must develop, test and deploy new supporting technologies, software applications and systems intended to enhance our competitiveness both by supporting existing and new services and features, and by reducing the costs associated with providing those services. Successful deployment and implementation of new services and technology depend, in part, on the willingness and ability of third parties to develop new handsets and applications that are attractive to our customers and that are available in a timely manner. We may not be able to successfully expand our new network in Brazil as needed or complete the development and deployment of competitive services. Failure to successfully expand our network coverage and capacity and the services we offer could also be expected to result in subscriber dissatisfaction that could affect our ability to retain subscribers and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and growth prospects. If this occurs, we may be unable to recover the substantial investment we have made in our new networks and the related costs we have incurred and will continue to incur to offer these new services.. 18. b. Failure to successfully implement core information technology and operating systems may adversely affect our business operations.. Our business strategy envisions growing our business by successfully building and expanding our network in Brazil, expanding our product and service offerings and expanding our target customer base. Even if we do expand our business, if we fail to manage our growth effectively, our financial results could be adversely affected. Separately, growth may place a strain on our management systems and resources. We must continue to refine and expand our business development and sales capabilities; our network operations and information technology infrastructure; and the hardware, software, systems, processes and people to effectively support current and future sales, customer service and information requirements of our business in an efficient and cost-effective manner. In addition, failure to prioritize technology initiatives and effectively allocate resources in order to achieve our strategic goals could result in a failure to realize those goals, including the expected benefits of our growth, and could negatively affect our financial results.. Changes to our networks and business strategies require us to implement new operating and supporting systems to improve our ability to address the needs of our customers, as well as to create additional efficiencies and strengthen our internal controls over financial reporting. We may not be able to successfully implement these new systems in an effective or timely manner or we could fail to complete all necessary data reconciliation or other conversion controls when implementing the new systems. In addition, we may incur significant increases in costs and encounter extensive delays in the implementation and rollout of these new systems. Failure to effectively implement our new operating systems may adversely affect our results of operations, customer perceptions and internal controls over financial reporting.. As our business evolves, we must continue to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. We cannot assure you that we will be able to allocate our human resources optimally or identify and hire qualified employees or retain valued employees. If we are unable to manage our operations, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. 10. Any modification or termination of our trademark license with Nextel Communications could increase our costs.. Nextel Communications, Inc., or Nextel Communications, has licensed to us the right to use \"Nextel\" and other of its trademarks on a perpetual basis in Latin America. However, Nextel Communications may terminate the license on 60 days' notice if we commit one of several specified defaults (namely, unauthorized use, failure to maintain agreed quality controls or a change in control of NII Holdings). If there is a change in control of one of our subsidiaries, upon 90 days' notice, Nextel Communications may terminate the sublicense granted by us to the subsidiary with respect to the licensed marks. The loss of the use of the \"Nextel\" name and trademark could require us to incur significant costs to establish a new brand, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. 11.   Our reputation and business could be negatively impacted by cyber security threats and other material disruptions of our wireless networks.. Our information technology and other systems, including those of our third party service providers, that maintain and transmit our proprietary information and our subscribers' information, including credit card information, location data, or other personal information may be compromised by a malicious third party penetration of our network security or impacted by advertent or inadvertent actions or inactions by our employees and agents. As a result, our subscribers' information may be lost, disclosed, accessed, used, corrupted, destroyed, or taken without the subscribers' consent. Cyber attacks, such as the use of malware, computer viruses, denial of service attacks, or other means for disruption or unauthorized access, have increased in frequency, scope, and potential harm in recent years. We also purchase equipment and software from third parties that could contain software defects, Trojan horses, malware, or other means by which third parties could access our network or the information stored or transmitted on such network or equipment.. While to date we have not been subject to cyber attacks or other cyber incidents that, individually or in the aggregate, have been material to our operations or financial condition, the preventive actions we take to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information technology and networks may not be sufficient to repel a cyber attack in the future. In addition, the costs of such preventative actions may be significant, which may adversely affect our results of operations. While we maintain information security policies and procedures designed to comply with relevant privacy and security laws and restrictions, any major compromise of our data or network security; failure to prevent or mitigate a loss of our services or network, our proprietary information, or our subscribers' information; and delays in detecting any such compromise or loss, could disrupt our operations, impact our reputation and subscribers' willingness to purchase our service, and subject us to significant additional expenses, including lost revenues from business interruption, ransom and litigation, which could be material.. 19. In addition to cyber attacks, major equipment failures and the disruption of our wireless networks as a result of natural disasters, severe weather, terrorist attacks, acts of war, or other breaches of network or information technology security, even for a limited period of time, may result in significant expenses, result in a loss of subscribers or impair our ability to attract new subscribers, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In the past, more stringent network performance standards and reporting obligations have been adopted by the government in Brazil in order to ensure quality of service during unforeseen disturbances. We could be required to make significant investments in our existing networks in order to comply with these types of network performance standards. Any of these occurrences could damage our reputation, adversely impact subscriber and investor confidence and could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock. 12. If our stock price does not remain above $1.00, our common stock could be delisted from The NASDAQ Stock Market, which could have a material adverse effect on the liquidity of our common stock.. On June 14, 2017, we received a notice (the \"Notice\") from The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC (\"Nasdaq\") indicating that the bid price of our common stock for the prior 30 consecutive business days had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share required for continued listing on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under Nasdaq Listing Rule 5450(a)(1), and we were provided with a grace period of 180 calendar days, or until December 11, 2017, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. On December 12, 2017, we received a staff determination letter from Nasdaq indicating that we had failed to regain compliance with the minimum closing bid price requirement, that we were not eligible for a second 180-day grace period and that we would be delisted from the Nasdaq Global Select Market. We requested a hearing before a Nasdaq listing qualifications panel, which automatically stayed the delisting of our common stock pending the issuance of a determination by the panel. At our hearing in February 2018, we were granted an extension through June 11, 2018 to regain compliance with the minimum bid share price necessary for continued listing on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, which requires us to maintain a closing bid price of at least $1.00 for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. During the extension, our common stock will continue to trade on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. On March 8, 2018, the closing bid price of our common stock was above $1.00 for the tenth consecutive business day, and we are now in compliance with all Nasdaq Listing Rules. If we are unable to continue to maintain a closing bid price of at least $1.00, there is a risk that our common stock could be delisted from Nasdaq, and thereafter trading in our common stock, if any, may be conducted through the over-the-counter or other markets. As a consequence of such delisting, an investor could find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain quotations as to the price of, our common stock. Delisting of our common stock could also result in lower prices per share of our common stock than would otherwise prevail.. 13. There may be circumstances in which the interests of our significant stockholders could be in conflict with the interests of other stockholders.. As of February 28, 2018, funds associated with 683 Capital Management, Joseph D. Samberg, Exile Capital Management and Capital World Investors owned approximately 13.5%, 12.2%, 9.9% and 9.5%, respectively, of our outstanding common stock. Capital World Investors also has certain additional rights under our registration rights agreement dated June 26, 2015. Circumstances may arise in which these stockholders may have an interest in pursuing or preventing acquisitions, divestitures or other transactions, including the issuance of additional shares or debt, that, in their judgment, could enhance their investment in us or another company in which they invest. Such transactions might adversely affect us or other holders of our common stock. In addition, our significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common shares because investors may perceive disadvantages in owning shares in companies with significant stockholders.. 14. The price of our common stock may be volatile.. The price of our common stock may fluctuate due to a variety of factors, including:. • concentration of our business operations in Brazil;. • low trading volumes for our common stock and the inability to sustain an active trading marketing for our common stock;. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results and those of other public companies in our industry;. • industry cycles and trends;. • mergers and strategic alliances in the telecommunications industry;. 20. • changes in government regulation;. • potential or actual military conflicts or acts of terrorism;. • the failure of securities analysts to publish research about us, or shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts;. • future sales of our common stock by our stockholders, including in particular, those stockholders whose shares were included in our Registration Statement on Form S-3;. • announcements concerning us or our competitors; and. • the general state of the securities market.. As a result of these factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their stock at or above the price they paid or at all. These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance.. 15. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws may make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our Board and may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that some stockholders may consider beneficial.. Certain provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the \"Charter\") and our Fifth Amended and Restated Bylaws (the \"Bylaws\") may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if our Board determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of the Company and our stockholders. The provisions in our Charter and Bylaws include, among other things, those that:. • authorize our Board to issue preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares without stockholder approval;. • establish advance notice procedures for nominating directors or presenting matters at stockholder meetings; and. • limit the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders.. While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of our Company to negotiate with our Board, they could enable the Board to hinder or frustrate a transaction that some, or a majority, of the stockholders may believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our Board, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management."
