[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. We face many challenges and risks in the industry in which we operate. You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report, including under the section titled \"Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.\" The risks and uncertainties described are not the only ones we face. Additional risk factors not presently known to us or which we currently consider immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition or future results. If any of these risks were actually to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Related to our Business and our Industry. Our business is cyclical and depends on capital spending and well completions by the onshore oil and natural gas industry in North America, and the level of such activity is volatile. Our business has been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by industry and financial market conditions that are beyond our control.. Our business is cyclical, and we depend on our customers' willingness to make operating and capital expenditures to explore for, develop and produce oil and natural gas in North America, which, in turn, largely depends on prevailing industry and financial market conditions that are influenced by numerous factors beyond our control, including:. •  the level of prices, and expectations about future prices, for oil and natural gas;. •  the domestic and foreign supply of, and demand for, oil and natural gas and related products;. •  the level of global and domestic oil and natural gas production;. •  the supply of and demand for hydraulic fracturing and other oilfield services and equipment in North America;. 13. •  governmental regulations, including the policies of governments regarding the exploration for and production and development of their oil and natural gas reserves;. •  the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas;. •  available pipeline, storage and other transportation capacity;. •  worldwide political, military and economic conditions;. •  lead times associated with acquiring equipment and products and availability of qualified personnel;. •  the discovery rates of new oil and natural gas reserves;. •  federal, state and local regulation of hydraulic fracturing and other oilfield service activities, as well as E&P activities, including public pressure on governmental bodies and regulatory agencies to regulate our industry;. •  economic and political conditions in oil and natural gas producing countries;. •  actions of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, its members and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production levels, including announcements of potential changes to such levels;. •  advances in exploration, development and production technologies or in technologies affecting energy consumption;. •  activities by non-governmental organizations to restrict the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas so as to minimize emissions of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas;. •  the price and availability of alternative fuels and energy sources;. •  global weather conditions and natural disasters; and. •  uncertainty in capital and commodities markets and the ability of oil and natural gas producers to access capital.. A decline in oil and natural gas commodity prices may adversely affect the demand for our services and the rates we are able to charge.. The demand for our services and the rates we are able to charge are primarily influenced by current and anticipated oil and natural gas commodity prices and the related level of capital spending and drilling and completion activity in the areas in which we have operations. Volatility or weakness in oil and natural gas commodity prices (or the perception that oil and natural gas commodity prices will decrease) affects the spending patterns of our customers and may result in the drilling of fewer new wells or lower production spending on existing wells. The products and services we provide are, to a substantial extent, deferrable in the event oil and natural gas companies reduce capital expenditures. As a result, we may experience lower utilization of, and may be unable to increase rates or be forced to lower our rates for, our equipment and services in weak oil and natural gas commodity price environments. For example, between the third quarter of 2014 and the first quarter of 2016, oil and natural gas commodity prices declined significantly, which resulted in most of our customers reducing their exploration, development and production activities, which in turn resulted in a reduction in the demand for our services, as well as the rates we were able to charge and the utilization of our assets, during this period as compared to levels in mid-2014. Reduced discovery rates of new oil and natural gas reserves in our market areas as a result of decreased capital spending may also have a negative long-term impact on our business, even in an environment of stronger oil and natural gas prices, to the extent the reduced number of wells for us to service more than offsets increasing completion activity and intensity.. 14. Historically, oil and natural gas commodity prices have been extremely volatile. During the past six years, the posted price for West Texas Intermediate oil has ranged from a low of $26.19 per Bbl in February 2016 to a high of $113.39 per Bbl in April 2011, and the Henry Hub spot market price of gas has ranged from a low of $1.49 per MMBtu in March 2016 to a high of $7.51 per MMBtu in January 2010. Oil and natural gas commodity prices are expected to continue to be volatile. For example, in 2017, oil prices increased to a high of $60.46 in December 2017, following a low of $42.48 in June 2017. This environment could cause prices to remain at current levels or fall to lower levels. If the prices of oil and natural gas reverse their recent increases, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects may be materially and adversely affected.. Our business could be adversely affected by a decline in general economic conditions or a weakening of the broader energy industry.. A prolonged economic slowdown or recession in North America, adverse events relating to the energy industry or regional, national and global economic conditions and factors, particularly a slowdown in the E&P industry, could negatively impact our operations and therefore adversely affect our results. The risks associated with our business are more acute during periods of economic slowdown or recession because such periods may be accompanied by decreased exploration and development spending by our customers, decreased demand for oil and natural gas and decreased prices for oil and natural gas.. We may be unable to employ, or maintain the employment of, a sufficient number of key employees, technical personnel and other skilled and qualified workers.. The delivery of our services and products requires personnel with specialized skills and experience, including personnel who can perform physically demanding work. Our ability to be profitable and productive will depend upon our ability to employ and retain skilled workers. Workers may choose to pursue employment with our competitors or in fields that offer a more desirable work environment as a result of the volatility in the oilfield service industry and the demanding nature of our work. In addition, the shortage of fixed housing and the lack of employee housing in certain areas where we operate could make it difficult for us to attract and retain quality, long-term personnel. The right-sizing of our and our competitors' labor force over the recent sustained period of commodity price declines, as well as a significant decrease in the wages paid by us or our competitors as a result of reduced industry demand, has resulted in a reduction of the available skilled labor force to service the energy industry, and there is no assurance that the availability of skilled labor will improve following a subsequent increase in demand for our services or an increase in wage rates. If any of these events were to occur, our capacity and profitability could be diminished and our growth potential could be impaired.. We may be unable to implement price increases or maintain existing prices on our services.. We periodically seek to increase the prices on our services to offset rising costs and to generate higher returns for our stockholders. However, we operate in a very competitive industry and as a result, we are not always successful in raising, or maintaining, our existing prices. Additionally, during periods of increased market demand, a significant amount of new service capacity, including new well service rigs, wireline units and coiled tubing units, may enter the market, which also puts pressure on the pricing of our services and limits our ability to increase prices.. Even when we are able to increase our prices, we may not be able to do so at a rate that is sufficient to offset such rising costs. In periods of high demand for oilfield services, a tighter labor market may result in higher labor costs. During such periods, our labor costs could increase at a greater rate than our ability to raise prices for our services. Also, we may not be able to successfully increase prices without adversely affecting our activity levels. The inability to maintain our pricing and to increase our pricing as costs increase could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. 15. Our operations are subject to conditions inherent in the oilfield services industry.. Conditions inherent in the oil and natural gas industry can cause personal injury or loss of life, disruption or suspension in operations, damage to geological formations, damage to facilities, substantial revenue loss, business interruption and damage to, or destruction of, property, equipment and the environment. Such risks may include, but are not limited to:. •  equipment defects;. •  liabilities arising from accidents or damage involving our fleet of trucks and other equipment;. •  explosions and uncontrollable flows of gas or well fluids;. •  unusual or unexpected geological formations or pressures and industrial accidents;. •  blowouts;. •  fires;. •  cratering;. •  loss of well control;. •  collapse of the borehole; and. •  damaged or lost equipment.. Defects or other performance problems in the products that we sell or services that we offer could result in our customers seeking damages from us for losses associated with these defects or other performance problems. In addition, our completion and production services could become a source of spills or releases of fluids, including chemicals used during hydraulic fracturing activities, at the site where such services are performed, or could result in the discharge of such fluids into underground formations that were not targeted for fracturing or well completion activities, such as potable aquifers, or at third party properties. These risks could expose us to substantial liability for personal injury, wrongful death, property damage, loss of oil and natural gas production, pollution and other environmental damages and could result in a variety of claims, losses and remedial obligations that could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. For example, on August 31, 2017, an incident occurred at a wellsite operated by Pioneer Natural Resources resulting in the death of an employee of one of our subsidiaries. The subsidiary is a defendant in a lawsuit related to this incident. The existence, frequency and severity of such incidents could affect operating costs, insurability and relationships with customers, employees and regulators. In particular, our customers may elect not to purchase our services if they view our safety record as unacceptable or otherwise experience material defects in our products or performance problems, which could cause us to lose customers and substantial revenue, and any litigation or claims, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively affect our reputation with our customers and the public and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future.. We have operated at a loss in the past, and there is no assurance of our profitability in the future.. Historically, we have experienced periods of low demand for our services and have incurred operating losses. In the future, we may not be able to reduce our costs, increase our revenues or reduce our debt service obligations sufficiently to achieve or maintain profitability and generate positive operating income. Under such circumstances, we may incur further operating losses and experience negative operating cash flow.. 16. Restrictions in our debt agreements could limit our growth and our ability to engage in certain activities.. We made term loan borrowings of $125 million under our credit facility concurrently with the consummation of our initial public offering (our \"IPO\"). The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit facility and any future financing agreements could restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue our business activities. For example, our credit facility restricts or limits our ability to:. •  pay dividends and move cash;. •  grant liens;. •  incur additional indebtedness;. •  engage in a merger, consolidation or dissolution;. •  enter into transactions with affiliates;. •  sell or otherwise dispose of assets, businesses and operations;. •  materially alter the character of our business as conducted at the closing of our IPO; and. •  make acquisitions and investments.. Furthermore, our credit facility contains certain other operating covenants. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our credit facility, and, as of the end of each quarter, compliance with a leverage ratio, an asset coverage ratio and a fixed charge coverage ratio, may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. Any violation of the restrictions, covenants, or ratio tests in our credit facility could result in an event of default, which may cause a significant portion of our indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable, and our lenders' commitment to provide further loans to us may terminate. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. Any subsequent replacement of our credit facility or any new indebtedness could have similar or greater restrictions. For more information about our credit facility, please read \"Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - Our credit facilities - Our credit facility.\". We may incur additional indebtedness or issue additional equity securities to execute our long-term growth strategy, which may reduce our profitability or result in significant dilution to our stockholders.. We may require additional capital in the future to develop and execute our long-term growth strategy. For the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2017, we incurred approximately $9.1 million and $45.2 million, respectively, in capital expenditures and our capital expenditure budget for 2018, excluding possible acquisitions, is expected to be between $53 million and $57 million. We continually evaluate our capital expenditures, and the amount we ultimately spend will depend on a number of factors including expected industry activity levels and company initiatives. We believe the net proceeds from our IPO and borrowings under our credit facility, together with cash flows from operations, should be sufficient to fund our capital requirements for the next twelve months. If we incur additional indebtedness or issue additional equity securities, our profitability may be reduced and our stockholders may experience significant dilution.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under applicable debt instruments, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our indebtedness obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. For example, as of December 31, 2017, we had $119.9 million of debt outstanding under the Former Nine Credit Facility and $122.3 million of debt outstanding under the Former Beckman Credit Facility. As of. 17. December 31, 2016, we had $120.6 million of debt outstanding under the Former Nine Credit Facility that was then scheduled to mature on January 1, 2018, which was within twelve months of the date of the issuance of our audited financial statements and thereby resulted in a \"going concern\" paragraph being included in our independent registered public accounting firm's audit report. Delivery of audited financial statements including a going concern qualification would result in an event of default under the Former Nine Credit Facility absent an amendment or waiver. On March 23, 2017, we received the requisite waiver from the lenders under the Former Nine Credit Facility with respect to this potential event of default. On August 2, 2017, we also entered into an amendment to the Former Nine Credit Facility, which extended the maturity to May 31, 2018. We repaid the Former Nine Credit Facility and the Former Beckman Credit Facility in full with a portion of the proceeds from our IPO and $125 million of term loan borrowings under our new credit facility. However, our ability to satisfy our liquidity requirements going forward will depend on our future operating performance, which is affected by prevailing economic and competitive conditions, the level of drilling and completions activities in the North American E&P industry, and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance indebtedness. Our ability to restructure or refinance indebtedness will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness. In the absence of sufficient cash flows and capital resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions, and the proceeds of any such disposition may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet scheduled debt service obligations.. Our current and potential competitors may have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial or technical resources and greater name recognition than we do.. The oilfield services industry is highly competitive and fragmented and includes several large companies that compete in many of the markets we serve, as well as numerous small companies that compete with us on a local basis. The oilfield services industry competes primarily on a regional basis, and the intensity of competition may vary significantly from region to region at any particular time. We believe the principal competitive factors in the market areas we serve include price, equipment quality, supply chains, balance sheet strength and financial condition, product and service quality, safety record, availability of crews and equipment and technical proficiency.. Many of our existing and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing and other resources than we do. The greater size of many of our competitors provides them with cost advantages as a result of their economies of scale and their ability to obtain volume discounts and purchase raw materials at lower prices. As a result, such competitors may have stronger bargaining power with their suppliers and have an advantage over us in pricing as well as securing a sufficient supply of raw materials during times of shortage. Many of our competitors also have better brand name recognition, stronger presence in more geographic markets, more established distribution networks, larger customer bases, more in-depth knowledge of the target markets, and the ability to provide a much broader array of services. Some of our competitors may also be able to devote greater resources to the research and development, promotion and sale of their products and better withstand the evolving industry standards and changes in market conditions as compared to us. Our operations may be adversely affected if our competitors introduce new products or services with better features, performance, prices or other characteristics than our products and services or expand into service areas where we operate. Our operations may also be adversely affected if our competitors are able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and services and changes in customer requirements.. 18. Competitive pressures could reduce our market share or require us to reduce the price of our services and products, particularly during industry downturns, either of which would harm our business and operating results. Significant increases in overall market capacity have also caused active price competition and led to lower pricing and utilization levels for our services and products. The competitive environment has intensified since the recent industry downturn that began in late 2014, which caused an oversupply of, and reduced demand for, oilfield services, and we have seen substantial reductions in the prices we can charge for our services. Any significant future increase in overall market capacity for completion and production services may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Fuel conservation measures may reduce oil and natural gas demand.. Fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements and increasing consumer demand for alternatives to oil and natural gas could reduce demand for oil and natural gas. The impact of the changing demand for oil and natural gas may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. Additionally, the increased competitiveness of alternative energy sources (such as wind, solar geothermal, tidal, fuel cells and biofuels) could reduce demand for hydrocarbons and therefore for our services, which would lead to a reduction in our revenues.. Our success may be affected by our ability to implement new technologies and services. Additionally, we rely on a limited number of manufacturers to produce the proprietary products used in the provision of our services, which exposes us to risks.. Our success may be affected by the ongoing development and implementation of new product designs, methods and improvements, and our ability to protect, obtain and maintain intellectual property assets related to these developments. If we are not able to obtain patent or other protection of our technology, it may not be economical for us to continue to develop systems, services and technologies to meet evolving industry requirements at prices acceptable to our customers. Further, we may face competitive pressure to develop, implement or acquire certain new technologies at a substantial cost. Although we take measures to ensure that we use advanced technologies, changes in technology or improvements in our competitors' equipment could make our equipment less competitive or require significant capital investments to keep our equipment competitive.. We currently rely on a limited number of manufacturers for production of the proprietary products used in the provision of our services. Termination of the manufacturing relationship with any of these manufacturers could affect our ability to provide services to our customers. Though other alternate sources of supply for our proprietary products exist, we would need to establish relationships with new manufacturers, which could potentially involve significant expense and delay. Any protracted curtailment or interruptions of the supply of any of our key products, whether or not as a result or termination of our manufacturing relationships, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, business and results of operations.. Some of our competitors are large national and multinational companies that may be able to devote greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources to research and development of new systems, services and technologies and may have a larger number of manufacturers for their products or ability to manufacture their own products. As competitors and others use or develop new or comparable technologies in the future, we may lose market share or be placed at a competitive disadvantage if we are not able to develop and implement new technologies or products on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. If we are unable to compete effectively given these risks, our business and results of operations could be affected.. Our success may be affected by the use and protection of our proprietary technology as well as our ability to enter into license agreements. There are limitations to our intellectual property rights and, thus, our right to exclude others from the use of such proprietary technology.. Our success may be affected by our development and implementation of new product designs and improvements and by our ability to protect, obtain and maintain intellectual property assets related to these developments. We rely on a combination of patents and trade secret laws to establish and protect this proprietary technology. We have received patents and have filed patent applications with respect to certain aspects of our technology, and we generally rely on patent protection with respect to our proprietary technology, as well as a combination of trade secrets and copyright law, employee and third-party non-disclosure agreements and other. 19. protective measures to protect intellectual property rights pertaining to our products and technologies. In addition, we are a party to and rely on several arrangements with third parties, which give us exclusive distribution rights to certain product offerings with desirable intellectual property assets, and we may enter into similar arrangements in the future. Such measures may not provide meaningful protection of our trade secrets, know-how or other intellectual property in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure. We cannot assure you that competitors will not infringe upon, misappropriate, violate or challenge our intellectual property rights in the future. If we are not able to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, such intellectual property rights may not provide significant value to our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Moreover, our rights in our confidential information, trade secrets, and confidential know-how will not prevent third parties from independently developing similar technologies or duplicating such technologies. Publicly available information (e.g., information in issued patents, published patent applications and scientific literature) can be used by third parties to independently develop technology, and we cannot provide assurance that this independently developed technology will not be equivalent or superior to our proprietary technology. In addition, while we have patented some of our key technologies, we do not patent all of our proprietary technology, even when regarded as patentable. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive. There can be no assurance that patents will be issued from currently pending or future applications or that, if patents are issued, they will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. Further, with respect to exclusive third-party arrangements, these arrangements could be terminated, which would result in our inability to provide the services and/or products covered by such arrangements.. We may be adversely affected by disputes regarding intellectual property rights and the value of our intellectual property rights is uncertain.. We may become involved in dispute resolution proceedings from time to time to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. In these dispute resolution proceedings, a defendant may assert that our intellectual property rights are invalid or unenforceable. Third parties from time to time may also initiate dispute resolution proceedings against us by asserting that our businesses infringe, impair, misappropriate, dilute or otherwise violate another party's intellectual property rights. We may not prevail in any such dispute resolution proceedings, and our intellectual property rights may be found invalid or unenforceable or our products and services may be found to infringe, impair, misappropriate, dilute or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others. The results or costs of any such dispute resolution proceedings may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Any dispute resolution proceeding concerning intellectual property could be protracted and costly, is inherently unpredictable and could have an adverse effect on our business, regardless of its outcome.. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers, and the deterioration of the financial condition of our customers could adversely affect our financial results.. We are subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers, many of whose operations are concentrated solely in the domestic and Canadian E&P industry which, as described above, is subject to volatility and, therefore, credit risk. Our credit procedures and policies may not be adequate to fully reduce customer credit risk. If we are unable to adequately assess the creditworthiness of existing or future customers or unanticipated deterioration in their creditworthiness, any resulting increase in nonpayment or nonperformance by them and our inability to re-market or otherwise use our equipment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects and/or results of operations. In the course of our business we hold accounts receivable from our customers. In the event of the financial distress or bankruptcy of a customer, we could lose all or a portion of such outstanding accounts receivable associated with that customer. Further, if a customer was to enter into bankruptcy, it could also result in the cancellation of all or a portion of our service contracts with such customer at significant expense or loss of expected revenues to us.. In addition, during times when the oil or natural gas markets weaken, our customers are more likely to experience financial difficulties, including being unable to access debt or equity financing, which could result in a reduction in our customers' spending for our services.. 20. Our assets require capital for maintenance, upgrades and refurbishment, and we may require capital expenditures for new equipment.. Our equipment requires capital investment in maintenance, upgrades and refurbishment to maintain their competitiveness. For the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2017, we spent approximately $3.8 million and $9.6 million, respectively, on capital expenditures related to maintenance. Our equipment typically does not generate revenue while it is undergoing maintenance, refurbishment or upgrades. Any maintenance, upgrade or refurbishment project for our assets could increase our indebtedness or reduce cash available for other opportunities. Further, such projects may require proportionally greater capital investments as a percentage of total asset value, which may make such projects difficult to finance on acceptable terms. To the extent we are unable to fund such projects, we may have less equipment available for service or our equipment may not be attractive to potential or current customers. Additionally, competition or advances in technology within our industry may require us to update our products and services. Such demands on our capital or reductions in demand and the increase in cost to maintain labor necessary for such maintenance and improvement, in each case, could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity position, financial condition, prospects and results of operations and may increase costs.. We may record losses or impairment charges related to idle assets or assets that we sell.. Prolonged periods of low utilization, changes in technology or the sale of assets below their carrying value may cause us to experience losses. These events could result in the recognition of impairment charges that increase our net loss. In 2015, we recognized $35.5 million of goodwill impairment charges for two operating units.  In 2016, we recognized $12.2 million of goodwill impairment in one of our operating units due to persistent low completions activity in the market where the unit operates. In 2017, we recognized $31.5 million of goodwill impairment and $3.8 million of impairment to intangible assets in one of our operating units, due to a general decline in activity coupled with a methodology transition from open hole to cemented completions. Significant impairment charges as a result of a decline in market conditions or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods.. Competition among oilfield service and equipment providers is affected by each provider's reputation for safety and quality.. Our activities are subject to a wide range of national, state and local occupational health and safety laws and regulations. In addition, customers maintain their own compliance and reporting requirements. Failure to comply with these health and safety laws and regulations, or failure to comply with our customers' compliance or reporting requirements, could tarnish our reputation for safety and quality and have a material adverse effect on our competitive position.. Seasonal and adverse weather conditions adversely affect demand for services and operations.. Weather can have a significant impact on demand as consumption of energy is seasonal, and any variation from normal weather patterns, cooler or warmer summers and winters, can have a significant impact on demand. Adverse weather conditions, such as hurricanes, tropical storms and severe cold weather, may interrupt or curtail operations, or customers' operations, cause supply disruptions and result in a loss of revenue and damage to our equipment and facilities, which may or may not be insured. Specifically, we typically have experienced a pause by our customers around the holiday season in the fourth quarter, which may be compounded as our customers exhaust their annual capital spending budgets towards year end. Additionally, our operations are directly affected by weather conditions. During the winter months (first and fourth quarters) and periods of heavy snow, ice or rain, particularly in the northeastern U.S., Michigan, North Dakota, Wyoming and western Canada, our customers may delay operations or we may not be able to operate or move our equipment between locations. Also, during the spring thaw, which normally starts in late March and continues through June, some areas, primarily in western Canada, impose transportation restrictions to prevent damage caused by the spring thaw. For the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2017, we generated approximately 4.4% and 4.0%, respectively, of our revenue from our operations in western Canada. Lastly, throughout the year heavy rains adversely affect activity levels, as well locations and dirt access roads can become impassible in wet conditions.. 21. Oilfield anti-indemnity provisions enacted by many states may restrict or prohibit a party's indemnification of us.. We typically enter into agreements with our customers governing the provision of our services, which usually include certain indemnification provisions for losses resulting from operations. Such agreements may require each party to indemnify the other against certain claims regardless of the negligence or other fault of the indemnified party; however, many states place limitations on contractual indemnity agreements, particularly agreements that indemnify a party against the consequences of its own negligence. Furthermore, certain states, including Louisiana, New Mexico, Texas and Wyoming, have enacted statutes generally referred to as \"oilfield anti-indemnity acts\" expressly prohibiting certain indemnity agreements contained in or related to oilfield services agreements. Such oilfield anti-indemnity acts may restrict or void a party's indemnification of us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects and results of operations.. The growth of our business through acquisitions may expose us to various risks, including those relating to difficulties in identifying suitable, accretive acquisition opportunities and integrating businesses, assets and personnel, as well as difficulties in obtaining financing for targeted acquisitions and the potential for increased leverage or debt service requirements.. As a component of our business strategy, we have pursued and intend to continue to pursue selected, accretive acquisitions of complementary assets, businesses and technologies. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including:. •  unanticipated costs and assumption of liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired businesses, including, but not limited to, environmental liabilities;. •  difficulties in integrating the operations and assets of the acquired business and the acquired personnel;. •  limitations on our ability to properly assess and maintain an effective internal control environment over an acquired business, in order to comply with public reporting requirements;. •  potential losses of key employees and customers of the acquired businesses;. •  inability to commercially develop acquired technologies;. •  risks of entering markets in which we have limited prior experience; and. •  increases in our expenses and working capital requirements.. The process of integrating an acquired business may involve unforeseen costs and delays or other operational, technical and financial difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of management attention and financial and other resources. Our failure to achieve consolidation savings, to incorporate the acquired businesses and assets into our existing operations successfully or to minimize any unforeseen operational difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, there is intense competition for acquisition opportunities in our industry. Competition for acquisitions may increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions.. In addition to potential future acquisitions, the ongoing integration of our business in connection with the Combination present a number of risks that could affect our results of operations. In particular, integrating the businesses from the Combination is difficult and involves a number of special risks, including the diversion of management's attention to the assimilation of the operations, the unpredictability of costs related to the Combination and the difficulty of integration of the businesses, products, services, technology and employees. The ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Combination will depend, in part, upon whether the integration of the various businesses, products, services, technology and employees is accomplished in an efficient and effective manner, and there can be no assurance that this will occur.. 22. Furthermore, we may not have sufficient capital resources to complete additional acquisitions. Historically, we have financed acquisitions primarily with funding from our equity investors, cash generated by operations and borrowings under debt facilities. We may incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions and also may issue equity, debt or convertible securities in connection with such acquisitions. Debt service requirements could represent a significant burden on our results of operations and financial condition and the issuance of additional equity or convertible securities could be dilutive to our existing stockholders. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on satisfactory terms. Even if we have access to the necessary capital, we may be unable to continue to identify additional suitable acquisition opportunities, negotiate acceptable terms or successfully acquire identified targets.. Our ability to grow through acquisitions and manage growth will require us to continue to invest in operational, financial and management information systems and to attract, retain, motivate and effectively manage our employees. The inability to effectively manage the integration of acquisitions could reduce our focus on current operations and subsequent acquisitions, which, in turn, could negatively impact our earnings and growth. Our financial position and results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period, based on whether or not significant acquisitions are completed in particular periods.. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding issues of health, safety and protection of the environment. Under these laws and regulations, we may become liable for penalties, damages or costs of remediation or other corrective measures. Any changes in laws or government regulations could increase our costs of doing business.. Our operations are subject to stringent federal, state, local and tribal laws and regulations relating to, among other things, protection of natural resources, clean air and drinking water, wetlands, endangered species, greenhouse gasses, nonattainment areas, the environment, occupational health and safety, chemical use and storage, waste management, waste disposal and transportation of waste and other hazardous and nonhazardous materials. Our operations involve risks of environmental liability, including leakage from an operator's casing during our operations or accidental spills onto or into surface or subsurface soils, surface water or groundwater. Some environmental laws and regulations may impose strict liability, joint and several liability, or both. In some situations, we could be exposed to liability as a result of our conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or the conduct of, or conditions caused by, third parties without regard to whether we caused or contributed to the conditions. Additionally, environmental concerns, including clean air, drinking water contamination and seismic activity, have prompted investigations that could lead to the enactment of regulations, limitations, restrictions or moratoria that could potentially have a material adverse impact on our business. Actions arising under these laws and regulations could result in the shutdown of our operations, fines and penalties (administrative, civil or criminal), revocations of permits to conduct business, expenditures for remediation or other corrective measures and/or claims for liability for property damage, exposure to hazardous materials, exposure to hazardous waste, nuisance or personal injuries. Sanctions for noncompliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations may also include the assessment of administrative, civil or criminal penalties, revocation of permits and temporary or permanent cessation of operations in a particular location and issuance of corrective action orders. Such claims or sanctions and related costs could cause us to incur substantial costs or losses and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects and results of operations. Additionally, an increase in regulatory requirements, limitations, restrictions or moratoria on oil and natural gas exploration and completion activities at a federal, state or local level could significantly delay or interrupt our operations, limit the amount of work we can perform, increase our costs of compliance, or increase the cost of our services, thereby possibly having a material adverse impact on our financial condition.. If we do not perform our operations in accordance with government, industry, customer, or our own stringent occupational safety, health and environmental standards, we could lose business from our customers, many of whom have an increased focus on environmental and safety issues.. We are subject to the EPA, the U.S. Department of Transportation (the \"DOT\"), U.S. Nuclear Regulation Commission, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, OSHA and state regulatory agencies that regulate operations to prevent air, soil and water pollution. The energy extraction sector is one of the sectors designated for increased enforcement by the EPA, which will continue to regulate our industry in the years to come, potentially resulting in additional regulations that could have a material adverse impact on our business, prospects or financial condition.. 23. The EPA regulates air emissions from all engines, including off-road diesel engines that are used by us to power equipment in the field under the federal Clean Air Act's (\"CAA\") Tier 4 emission standards. The Tier 4 standards require substantial reductions in emissions of particulate matter and nitrous oxide from off-road diesel engines. Such emission reductions can be achieved through the use of appropriate control technologies. Under these U.S. emission control regulations, we could be limited in the number of certain off-road diesel engines we can purchase if we are unable to find a sufficient number of Tier 4-compliant engines from manufacturers. Further, these emission control regulations could result in increased capital and operating costs.. Changes in environmental laws and regulations could lead to material increases in our costs, and liability exposure, for future environmental compliance and remediation. Additionally, if we expand the size or scope of our operations, we could be subject to regulatory requirements that are more stringent than the requirements under which we are currently allowed to operate or require additional authorizations to continue operations. Compliance with this additional regulatory burden could increase our operating or other costs.. Federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could prohibit, restrict or limit hydraulic fracturing operations, or increase our operating costs.. Our businesses are dependent on hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling activities. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons, particularly natural gas, from tight formations, including shales. The process, which involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production, is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions. However, federal agencies have asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. For example, the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority pursuant to the federal Safe Drinking Water Act over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel fuels and published permitting guidance in February 2014 addressing the performance of such activities using diesel fuels. In 2016, the EPA issued final regulations under the CAA establishing performance standards, including standards for the capture of methane emissions released during hydraulic fracturing. However, over the past year the EPA has taken several steps to delay implementation of its methane standards, and the agency proposed a rulemaking in June 2017 to stay the requirements for a period of two years and revisit implementation of the 2016 methane standards in their entirety. The EPA has not yet published a final rule but, as a result of these developments, future implementation of the 2016 standards is uncertain at this time.  Various industry and environmental groups have separately challenged both the original standards and EPA's attempts to delay implementation of the rule. The BLM previously finalized similar limitations on methane emissions from venting and flaring and leaking equipment from oil and natural gas activities on public lands, but proposed to repeal those standards in February 2018. Several states have announced their intent to file judicial challenges against any attempt to repeal the BLM methane rules.  As a result, future implementation of both the EPA and BLM methane rules is uncertain at this time. However, given the long-term trend towards increasing regulation, future federal regulation of methane and other greenhouse gas emissions from the oil and gas industry remain a possibility.. The EPA has also issued effluent limitation guidelines that prohibit the discharge of wastewater from hydraulic fracturing operations to publicly owned wastewater treatment plants. In addition, the BLM had previously issued final rules in March 2015 imposing stringent standards for performing hydraulic fracturing on federal and Native American lands; however, the agency finalized a separate rulemaking in December 2017 repealing its hydraulic fracturing rules. Several states and environmental groups have challenged the repeal in federal court. It is unclear how any additional federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing activities may affect our operations, but additional regulatory burdens on our customers could ultimately result in decreased demand for our services.. Various studies analyzing the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing have also been performed. For example, in December 2016, the EPA released its final report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources. The final report concluded that \"water cycle\" activities associated with hydraulic fracturing may impact drinking water resources \"under some circumstances,\" noting that the following hydraulic fracturing water cycle activities and local- or regional-scale factors are more likely than others to result in more frequent or more severe impacts: water withdrawals for fracturing in times or areas of low water availability; surface spills during the management of fracturing fluids, chemicals or produced water; injection of fracturing fluids into wells with inadequate mechanical integrity; injection of fracturing fluids directly into groundwater resources; discharge of inadequately treated fracturing wastewater to surface waters; and disposal or storage of fracturing wastewater in unlined pits. As described elsewhere in this Annual Report, these risks are regulated under various state, federal and local laws.. 24. Some states, counties and municipalities have enacted or are considering moratoria on hydraulic fracturing. For example, New York and Vermont have banned or are in the process of banning the use of high volume hydraulic fracturing. Alternatively, some municipalities are or have considered zoning and other ordinances, the conditions of which could impose a de facto ban on drilling and/or hydraulic fracturing operations. Further, some states, counties and municipalities are closely examining water use issues, such as permit and disposal options for processed water, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, prospects and results of operations if such additional permitting requirements are imposed upon our industry. If new laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such laws could reduce our business by making it more difficult or costly for their customers to perform fracturing to stimulate production from tight formations. In addition, if hydraulic fracturing becomes regulated at the federal level as a result of federal legislation or regulatory initiatives by the EPA, the business and operations of our customers could be subject to additional permitting requirements, and also to attendant permitting delays, increased operating and compliance costs and process prohibitions, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Existing or future laws and regulations related to greenhouse gases and climate change could have a negative impact on our business and may result in additional compliance obligations with respect to the release, capture and use of greenhouse gasses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition.. Changes in environmental requirements related to greenhouse gas emissions and climate change may negatively impact demand for our services. For example, oil and natural gas E&P may decline as a result of environmental requirements, including land use policies responsive to environmental concerns. Federal, state and local agencies have been evaluating climate-related legislation and other regulatory initiatives that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases in areas in which we conduct business. Because our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, existing or future laws and regulations related to greenhouse gases and climate change, including incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources, could have a negative impact on our business if such laws or regulations reduce demand for oil and natural gas. Likewise, such restrictions may result in additional compliance obligations with respect to the release, capture, sequestration and use of greenhouse gasses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. Finally, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that could have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events; if such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse impact on our operations.. Studies by both state or federal agencies demonstrating a correlation between earthquakes and oil and natural gas activities could result in increased regulatory and operational burdens.. In light of concerns about seismic activity being triggered by the injection of produced waters into underground wells, certain regulators are also considering additional requirements related to seismic safety for hydraulic fracturing activities. A 2015 U.S. Geological Survey report identified eight states, including Texas, with areas of increased rates of induced seismicity that could be attributed to fluid injection or oil and gas extraction.  Any regulation that restricts the ability of our customers to dispose of produced waters or increases their cost of doing business could cause them to curtail operation, which in turn could decrease demand for our services and have a material adverse effect on our business.. We may be subject to claims for personal injury and property damage or other litigation, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, prospects and results of operations.. Our services are subject to inherent risks that can cause personal injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, equipment or the environment or the suspension of our operations. As the wells we service continue to become more complex, our exposure to such inherent risks becomes greater as downhole risks increase exponentially with an increase in complexity and lateral length. Our operations are also exposed to risks of labor organizing and risks of claims for alleged employment-related liabilities, including risks of claims related to alleged wrongful termination or discrimination, wage payment practices, retaliation claims and other human resource related matters. Litigation arising from operations where our facilities are located, or our services are provided, may cause us to be named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting potentially large claims including claims for exemplary damages. For example, transportation of heavy equipment creates the potential for our trucks to become involved in roadway accidents, which in turn could result in personal injury or property damages lawsuits being filed against us.. 25. We maintain what we believe is customary and reasonable insurance to protect our business against most potential losses, but such insurance may not be adequate to cover our liabilities, especially as the inherent risks in our operations increase with increasing well complexity, and we are not fully insured against all risks, including alleged employment related liabilities. Further, our insurance has deductibles or self-insured retentions and contains certain coverage exclusions. The current trend in the insurance industry is towards larger deductibles and self-insured retentions. In addition, insurance may not be available in the future at rates that we consider reasonable and commercially justifiable, compelling us to have larger deductibles or self-insured retentions to effectively manage expenses. As a result, we could become subject to material uninsured liabilities or situations where we have high deductibles or self-insured retentions that expose us to liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects or results of operations.. In recent years, oilfield services companies have been the subject of a significant volume of wage and hour-related litigation, including claims brought under the Federal Labor Standards Act, in which employee pay practices have been challenged. We have been named as defendants in these lawsuits, and we do not maintain insurance for alleged wage and hour-related litigation. Some of these cases remain outstanding and are in various states of negotiation and/or litigation. The frequency and significance of wage- or other employment-related claims may affect expenses, costs and relationships with employees and regulators.  Additionally, we could become subject to material uninsured liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects or results of operations.. Our operations are subject to cyber security risks that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information technology (\"IT\") systems. Accordingly, we rely upon the capacity, reliability and security of our IT hardware and software infrastructure and our ability to expand and update this infrastructure in response to our changing needs. Our IT systems are subject to possible breaches and other threats that could cause us harm. If our systems for protecting against cyber security risks prove not to be sufficient, we could be adversely affected by, among other things, loss or damage of intellectual property, proprietary information, or customer data; interruption of business operations; or additional costs to prevent, respond to, or mitigate cyber security attacks. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and result of operations.. Changes in transportation regulations may increase our costs and negatively impact our results of operations.. We are subject to various transportation regulations including as a motor carrier by the DOT and by various federal, state and tribal agencies, whose regulations include certain permit requirements of highway and safety authorities. These regulatory authorities exercise broad powers over our trucking operations, generally governing such matters as the authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, safety, equipment testing, driver requirements and specifications and insurance requirements. Certain motor vehicle operators are required to register with the DOT. This registration requires an acceptable operating record. The DOT periodically conducts compliance reviews and may revoke registration privileges based on certain safety performance criteria, and a revocation could result in a suspension of operations. Since 2010, the DOT has pursued its Compliance, Safety, Accountability (\"CSA\") program in an effort to improve commercial truck and bus safety. A component of CSA is the Safety Measurement System (\"SMS\"), which analyzes all safety violations recorded by federal and state law enforcement personnel to determine a carrier's safety performance. The SMS is intended to allow the DOT to identify carriers with safety issues and intervene to address those problems.. The trucking industry is subject to possible regulatory and legislative changes that may impact our operations, such as changes in fuel emissions limits, hours of service regulations that govern the amount of time a driver may drive or work in any specific period and limits on vehicle weight and size. For example, in December 2016, the DOT finalized minimum training standards for new drivers seeking a commercial driver's license, and effective December 2017, the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration has mandated electronic logging devices in all interstate commercial trucks. As the federal government continues to develop and propose regulations relating to fuel quality, engine efficiency and greenhouse gas emissions, we may experience an increase in costs related to truck purchases and maintenance, impairment of equipment productivity, a decrease in the residual value of vehicles, unpredictable fluctuations in fuel prices and an increase in operating expenses. Increased truck traffic may contribute to deteriorating road conditions in some areas where our operations are performed. Our operations,. 26. including routing and weight restrictions, could be affected by road construction, road repairs, detours and state and local regulations and ordinances restricting access to certain roads. Proposals to increase federal, state or local taxes, including taxes on motor fuels, are also made from time to time, and any such increase would increase our operating costs. Also, state and local regulation of permitted routes and times on specific roadways could adversely affect our operations. We cannot predict whether, or in what form, any legislative or regulatory changes or municipal ordinances applicable to our logistics operations will be enacted and to what extent any such legislation or regulations could increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business or operations.. We are dependent on customers in a single industry. The loss of one or more significant customers could adversely affect our financial condition, prospects and results of operations.. Our customers are engaged in the oil and natural gas E&P business in North America, which has been historically volatile. For the year ended December 31, 2017, our five largest customers, collectively accounted for approximately 29% of total revenues, and no single customer accounted for 10% or more of our revenue. If we were to lose several key alliances over a relatively short period of time or if one of our largest customers fails to pay or delays in paying a significant amount of our outstanding receivables, we could experience an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. Additionally, the E&P industry is characterized by frequent consolidation activity. Changes in ownership of our customers may result in the loss of, or reduction in, business from those customers, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Our executive officers and certain key personnel are critical to our business and these officers and key personnel may not remain with us in the future.. Our future success depends in substantial part on our ability to hire and retain our executive officers and other key personnel. In particular, we are highly dependent on certain of our executive officers, particularly our President and Chief Executive Officer, Ann G. Fox, and the President of our Completion Solutions segment, David Crombie. These individuals possess extensive expertise, talent and leadership, and they are critical to our success. The diminution or loss of the services of these individuals, or other integral key personnel affiliated with entities that we acquire in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, we may not be able to enforce all of the provisions in any employment agreement we have entered into with certain of our executive officers and such employment agreements may not otherwise be effective in retaining such individuals. In addition, we may not be able to retain key employees of entities that we acquire in the future. This may impact our ability to successfully integrate or operate the assets we acquire.. A terrorist attack or armed conflict could harm our business.. The occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks in the United States or other countries, anti-terrorist efforts and other armed conflicts involving the United States or other countries, including continued hostilities in the Middle East, may adversely affect the United States and global economies and could prevent us from meeting financial and other obligations. We could experience loss of business, delays or defaults in payments from payors or disruptions of fuel supplies and markets if wells, operations sites or other related facilities are direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terror or war. Such activities could reduce the overall demand for oil and natural gas, which, in turn, could also reduce the demand for our products and services. Oil and natural gas related facilities could be direct targets of terrorist attacks, and our operations could be adversely impacted if infrastructure integral to our customers' operations is destroyed or damaged. Costs for insurance and other security may increase as a result of these threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain, if available at all. Terrorist activities and the threat of potential terrorist activities and any resulting economic downturn could adversely affect our results of operations, impair our ability to raise capital or otherwise adversely impact our ability to realize certain business strategies.. Delays or restrictions in obtaining, or inability to obtain or renew, permits or authorizations by our customers for their operations or by us for our operations could impair our business.. In most states, our operations and the operations of our customers require permits or authorizations from one or more governmental agencies or other third parties to perform drilling and completion and production activities, including hydraulic fracturing. Such permits or approvals are typically required by state agencies, but federal and local governmental permits may also be required. We are also required to obtain federal, state, local and/or third-party permits and authorizations in some jurisdictions in connection with our wireline services and trucking. 27. operations. The requirements for permits or authorizations vary depending on the location where the associated activities will be conducted. As with most permitting and authorization processes, there is a degree of uncertainty as to whether a permit will be granted, the time it will take for a permit or approval to be issued and the conditions which may be imposed in connection with the granting of the permit. In Texas, rural water districts have begun to impose restrictions on water use and may require permits for water used in drilling and completion activities. In addition, some of our customers' drilling and completion activities may take place on federal land or Native American lands, requiring leases and other approvals from the federal government or Native American tribes to conduct such drilling and completion activities. Permitting, authorization or renewal delays, the inability to obtain new permits or the revocation of current permits could cause a loss of revenue and potentially have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects or results of operations.. Our Canadian operations subject us to currency translation risk, which could cause our results to fluctuate significantly from period to period.. A portion of our revenues are derived from our Canadian activities and operations. As a result, we translate the results of our operations and financial condition of our Canadian operations into U.S. dollars. Therefore, our reported results of operations and financial condition are subject to changes in the exchange rate between the two currencies. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our revenue, expenses and operating margins. Currently, we do not hedge our exposure to changes in foreign exchange rates.. Risks Related to our Common Stock. SCF controls a significant percentage of our voting power.. SCF owns approximately 38% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, certain of our directors are currently employed by SCF. Consequently, SCF is able to strongly influence all matters that require approval by our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors, changes to our organizational documents and approval of acquisition offers and other significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership will limit your ability to influence corporate matters, and as a result, actions may be taken that you may not view as beneficial. This concentration of stock ownership may also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock to the extent investors perceive a disadvantage in owning stock of a company with a controlling stockholder.. Certain of our directors may have conflicts of interest because they are also directors or officers of SCF. The resolution of these conflicts of interest may not be in our or your best interests.. Certain of our directors, namely David C. Baldwin and Andrew L. Waite, are currently officers of L.E. Simmons & Associates, Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (\"LESA\"), SCF's ultimate general partner. In addition, Mr. Baldwin and Mr. Waite are both directors of Forum Energy Technology, a corporation in which SCF and its affiliates own an approximate 21% equity interest as of December 31, 2017. These positions may conflict with such individuals' duties as one of our directors or officers regarding business dealings and other matters between SCF and us. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in the best interest of the Company or its stockholders.. SCF and its affiliates are not limited in their ability to compete with us, and the corporate opportunity provisions in our charter could enable SCF to benefit from corporate opportunities that may otherwise be available to us.. SCF and its affiliates have investments in other oilfield service companies that may compete with us, and SCF and its affiliates may invest in such other companies in the future. SCF, its other affiliates and its portfolio companies are referred to herein as the \"SCF Group.\" Conflicts of interest could arise in the future between us, on the one hand, and the SCF Group, on the other hand, concerning among other things, potential competitive business activities or business opportunities.. Our charter provides that, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, we renounce any interest or expectancy in any business opportunity that involves any aspect of the energy equipment or services business or industry and that may be from time to time presented to SCF or any of our directors or officers who is also an employee, partner, member, manager, officer or director of any SCF Group entity, even if the opportunity is one that we might reasonably have pursued or had the ability or desire to pursue if granted the opportunity to do so. Our. 28. charter further provides that no such person or party shall be liable to us by reason of the fact that such person pursues any such business opportunity, or fails to offer any such business opportunity to us. As a result, any of our directors or officers who is also an employee, partner, member, manager, officer or director of any SCF Group entity may become aware, from time to time, of certain business opportunities, such as acquisition opportunities, and may direct such opportunities to other businesses in which they have invested, in which case we may not become aware of or otherwise have the ability to pursue such opportunity. Further, such businesses may choose to compete with us for these opportunities. As a result, by renouncing our interest and expectancy in any business opportunity that may be from time to time presented to any member of an SCF Group entity or any of our directors or officers who is also an employee, partner, member, manager, officer or director of any SCF Group entity, our business or prospects could be adversely affected if attractive business opportunities are procured by such parties for their own benefit rather than for ours. Our charter provides that any amendment to or adoption of any provision inconsistent with our charter's provisions governing the renouncement of business opportunities must be approved by the holders of at least 80% of the voting power of the outstanding stock of the corporation entitled to vote thereon. Any actual or perceived conflicts of interest with respect to the foregoing could have an adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock.. The requirements of being a public company, including compliance with the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the \"Exchange Act\"), and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the \"Sarbanes-Oxley Act\") and the New York Stock Exchange (\"NYSE\"), may strain our resources, increase our costs and distract management, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner.. As a newly public company, we need to comply with new laws, regulations and requirements, certain corporate governance provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, related regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the \"SEC\") and the requirements of the NYSE, with which we are not required to comply as a private company. We are currently evaluating these rules, regulations and requirements, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs.. Complying with these statutes, regulations and requirements will occupy a significant amount of time of our board of directors and management and will significantly increase our costs and expenses. Among other things, we will need to:. •  institute a more comprehensive compliance function;. •  comply with rules promulgated by the NYSE;. •  continue to prepare and distribute periodic public reports in compliance with our obligations under the federal securities laws;. •  establish new internal policies, such as those relating to insider trading;. •  involve and retain to a greater degree outside counsel and accountants in the above activities; and. •  implement an internal audit function.. In addition, beginning with our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2018, we will be required to comply with certain provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act that requires that we document and test our internal control over financial reporting and issue management's assessment of our internal control over financial reporting in such annual report. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act also requires that our independent registered public accounting firm opine on those internal controls upon becoming a large accelerated filer, as defined in the SEC rules, or otherwise ceasing to qualify as an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act. We are evaluating our existing controls against the standards adopted by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. During the course of our ongoing evaluation and integration of the internal control over financial reporting, we may identify areas requiring improvement, and we may have to design enhanced processes and controls to address issues and prevent fraud identified through this review. For example, we anticipate the need to hire additional administrative and accounting personnel to conduct our financial reporting. We cannot be certain at this time that we will be able to successfully complete the procedures, certification and attestation requirements of Section 404.. 29. Moreover, we expect that being a public company subject to these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers.. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, with regard to the reporting of income tax expense (benefit), related balance sheet accounts and other comprehensive income and also with regard to segregation of certain accounting duties. We may identify additional material weaknesses in the future or otherwise fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, which may result in material misstatements of our financial statements or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations.. In connection with a review of our financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2017, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over the reporting of income tax expense (benefit), the related balance sheet accounts and other comprehensive income. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.. During the first quarter of 2017, we hired a tax professional as our tax director, who performed a detailed review of our deferred taxes and our tax provision and identified certain immaterial errors in our income tax expense (benefit) and deferred tax balance for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015. Upon review of our internal controls in connection with the identification of these errors, we determined that we did not design and maintain an effective control environment with formal accounting policies and controls, and with trained professionals with an appropriate level of income tax knowledge and experience, to properly analyze, record and disclose the accounting matters commensurate with our financial reporting requirements related to income taxes. Specifically, we did not have controls designed to address the accuracy of income tax expense (benefit) and related combined balance sheet accounts, including deferred income taxes, as well as adequate procedures and controls to review the work of external experts engaged to assist in income tax matters or to monitor the presentation and disclosure of income taxes.. This material weakness resulted in the need to correct misstatements in our combined financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 prior to their issuance. The misstatements were not material to either 2016 or 2015.  This material weakness could result in a misstatement of the aforementioned account balances or disclosures that would result in a material misstatement of the annual or interim consolidated financial statements that would not be prevented or detected.. As described above, during the first quarter of 2017, we hired a tax professional as our tax director, who identified the misstatements described above and will be responsible for performing a detailed review of our deferred taxes and our annual and quarterly tax provision for all future periods. Further, we have implemented additional review procedures within the accounting and finance department. These actions are subject to ongoing management review and the oversight of our board of directors.. In addition, in connection with the preparation of our financial statements for the nine months ended September 30, 2017, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, specifically as it related to segregation of certain accounting duties stemming from our decentralized accounting structure and limited number of accounting personnel. We did not design and maintain adequate controls to address segregation of certain accounting duties related to journal entries, account reconciliations and other accounting functions. Certain accounting personnel have the ability to prepare and post journal entries, as well as reconcile accounts, without an independent review by someone other than the preparer. Specifically, our internal controls were not designed or operating effectively to evidence that journal entries were appropriately recorded or were properly reviewed for validity, accuracy and completeness. Immaterial misstatements have been identified related to the inadequate segregation of accounting duties.  This material weakness could result in a misstatement of the aforementioned account balances or disclosures that would result in a material misstatement of the annual or interim consolidated financial statements that would not be prevented or detected.. 30. We have begun to remediate and plan to further remediate this material weakness relating to segregation of certain accounting duties. We have replaced the less sophisticated accounting systems used by our newly-acquired subsidiaries with the enterprise resource planning system used by the majority of our subsidiaries. Also, we are working with third party consultants to identify internal control risks and implement remedies. These actions are subject to ongoing management review and the oversight of our board of directors.. The material weaknesses described above or any newly identified material weakness could limit our ability to prevent or detect a misstatement of our accounts or disclosures that could result in a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements. We cannot assure you that the measures we have taken to date, or any measures we may take in the future, will be sufficient to remediate the control deficiencies that led to the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting described above or to avoid potential future material weaknesses. In addition, neither our management nor an independent registered public accounting firm has ever performed an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act because no such evaluation has been required. Had we or our independent registered public accounting firm performed an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, additional material weaknesses may have been identified.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. If we are unable to successfully remediate our existing or any future material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, or identify any additional material weaknesses that may exist, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be adversely affected, we may be unable to maintain compliance with securities law requirements regarding timely filing of periodic reports in addition to applicable stock exchange listing requirements, we may be unable to prevent fraud, investors may lose confidence in our financial reporting, and our stock price may decline as a result. Additionally, our reporting obligations as a public company could place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future and may cause us to fail to timely achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research reports or publish unfavorable research about our business, the price and trading volume of our common stock could decline.. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our securities, the price of our securities would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases to cover us or fails to publish regular reports on us, interest in the purchase of our securities could decrease, which could cause the price of our common stock and other securities and their trading volume to decline.. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that could delay, discourage or prevent a takeover attempt even if a takeover might be beneficial to our stockholders, and such provisions may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Provisions contained in our charter and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Our charter and bylaws also impose various procedural and other requirements, which could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. For example, our charter authorizes our board of directors to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued series of preferred stock without any vote or action by our stockholders. Thus, our board of directors can authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of our capital stock. These rights may have the effect of delaying or deterring a change of control of our company. Additionally, for example, our bylaws (i) establish limitations on the removal of directors and on the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings, (ii) include advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings, (iii) provide that our board of directors is expressly authorized to adopt, or to alter or repeal, our bylaws, and (iv) provide for a classified board of directors, consisting of three classes of approximately equal size, each class serving staggered three-year terms, so that only approximately one-third of our directors will be elected each year. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock.. Our charter designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our. 31. stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents.. Our charter provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, employees or agents to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the \"DGCL\"), our charter or our bylaws or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine, in each such case subject to such Court of Chancery having personal jurisdiction over the indispensable parties named as defendants therein. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock will be deemed to have notice of, and consented to, the provisions of our charter described in the preceding sentence. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and such persons. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our charter inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock, and we expect that our debt agreements will place certain restrictions on our ability to do so. Consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment is if the price of our common stock appreciates.. We do not plan to declare dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Additionally, our credit facility places certain restrictions on our ability to pay cash dividends. Consequently, unless we revise our dividend policy, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment in us will be if you sell your common stock at a price greater than you paid for it. There is no guarantee that the price of our common stock that will prevail in the market will ever exceed the price at which you purchased your shares of common stock.. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could reduce our stock price, and any additional capital raised by us through the sale of equity or convertible securities may dilute your ownership in us.. We may sell additional shares of common stock in subsequent public offerings. We may also issue additional shares of common stock or convertible securities. We have 23,873,583 shares of our common stock outstanding (all shares reflect the 8.0256 for 1 stock split that took place in connection with the IPO in January 2018  -  Note 2) and SCF-VII, L.P. and SCF-VII(A), L.P. (collectively, \"SCF\") own 9,086,888 shares of our common stock or approximately 38% of our total outstanding shares, all of which are restricted from immediate resale under the federal securities laws and are subject to lock-up agreements with the underwriters in our IPO but may be sold into the market in the future. SCF and certain of our other stockholders are parties to the Amended Stockholders Agreement (as defined and described in Item 13. \"Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence - Transactions with our Significant Stockholders and our Directors and Executive Officers - Stockholders Agreement\"), which will require us to effect the registration of their shares in certain circumstances no earlier than the expiration of the lock-up period contained in the underwriting agreement entered into in connection with our IPO. Additionally, 7,097,491 shares held by our employees and others will be eligible for sale at various times and subject to a 180 day lock-up agreement contained in the Existing Stockholders Agreement, including shares eligible for sale upon exercise of vested options.. In connection with our IPO, we filed a registration statement with the SEC on Form S-8 providing for the registration of shares of our common stock issued or reserved for issuance under our equity incentive plan. Subject to the satisfaction of vesting conditions, the expiration of lock-up agreements and the requirements of Rule 144, shares registered under the registration statement on Form S-8 will be available for resale immediately in the public market without restriction.. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or securities convertible into common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares issued in connection with. 32. an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock.. The underwriters of our IPO may waive or release parties to the lock-up agreements entered into in connection with our IPO, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock.. In connection with our IPO, we, all of our directors and executive officers and SCF entered into lock-up agreements with respect to their common stock, pursuant to which they are subject to certain resale restrictions for a period of 180 days following the date of the underwriting agreement entered into in connection with our IPO. J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC may, at any time and without notice, release all or any portion of the common stock subject to the foregoing lock-up agreements. If the restrictions under the lock-up agreements are waived, then common stock will be available for sale into the public markets, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and impair our ability to raise capital.. A significant reduction by SCF of its ownership interests in us could adversely affect us.. We believe that SCF's substantial ownership interest in us provides them with an economic incentive to assist us to be successful. Upon the expiration or earlier waiver of the lock-up restrictions on transfers or sales of our securities following the completion of our IPO, SCF will not be subject to any obligation to maintain its ownership interest in us and may elect at any time thereafter to sell all or a substantial portion of or otherwise reduce its ownership interest in us. If SCF sells all or a substantial portion of its ownership interest in us, it may have less incentive to assist in our success and its affiliates that are expected to serve as members of our board of directors may resign. Such actions could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategies which could adversely affect our cash flows or results of operations.. Taking advantage of the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to \"emerging growth companies\" may make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the JOBS Act. An emerging growth company may take advantage of certain reduced reporting and other requirements that are otherwise applicable generally to public companies. Pursuant to these reduced disclosure requirements, emerging growth companies are not required to, among other things, comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, provide certain disclosures regarding executive compensation, holding stockholder advisory votes on executive compensation or obtain stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. In addition, emerging growth companies have longer phase-in periods for the adoption of new or revised financial accounting. We would cease to be an emerging growth company if we have more than $1.07 billion in annual revenue, have more than $700 million in market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates, or issue more than $1.0 billion of non-convertible debt over a three-year period.. We intend to take advantage of all of the reduced reporting requirements and exemptions, including the longer phase-in periods for the adoption of new or revised financial accounting standards under Section 107 of the JOBS Act, until we are no longer an emerging growth company. If we were to subsequently elect instead to comply with these public company effective dates, such election would be irrevocable pursuant to Section 107 of the JOBS Act.. Our election to use the phase-in periods permitted by this election may make it difficult to compare our financial statements to those of non-emerging growth companies and other emerging growth companies that have opted out of the longer phase-in periods under Section 107 of the JOBS Act and who will comply with new or revised financial accounting standards. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we will rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our common stock price may be more volatile. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies.. We may not be able to utilize a portion of our net operating loss carryforwards (\"NOLs\") to offset future taxable income for U.S. federal or state tax purposes, which could adversely affect our net income and cash flows.. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had federal and state income tax NOLs of approximately $168.1 million, which will begin to expire between 2023 and 2033. Utilization of these NOLs depends on many factors,. 33. including our future taxable income, which cannot be assured. In addition, Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (\"Section 382\"), generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of an NOL that may be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone an \"ownership change\" (as determined under Section 382). Determining the limitations under Section 382 is technical and highly complex. An ownership change generally occurs if one or more shareholders (or groups of shareholders) who are each deemed to own at least 5% of the corporation's stock increase their ownership by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest ownership percentage within a rolling three-year period. In the event that an ownership change has occurred - or were to occur - with respect to a corporation following its recognition of an NOL, utilization of such NOL would be subject to an annual limitation under Section 382, generally determined by multiplying the value of the corporation's stock at the time of the ownership change by the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate as defined in Section 382. However, this annual limitation would be increased under certain circumstances by recognized built-in gains of the corporation existing at the time of the ownership change. In the case of an NOL that arose in a taxable year beginning before January 1, 2018, any unused annual limitation with respect to an NOL generally may be carried over to later years, subject to the expiration of such NOL 20 years after it arose.. The issuance of additional stock in our IPO, combined with ownership shifts over the rolling three-year period, resulted in an ownership change under Section 382 and we may be prevented from fully utilizing our NOLs prior to their expiration. Future changes in our stock ownership or future regulatory changes could also limit our ability to utilize our NOLs. To the extent we are not able to offset future taxable income with our NOLs, our net income and cash flows may be adversely affected."
