[1] "ITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS. Listed below are certain risk factors associated with us and our businesses. See also certain risk factors discussed in Item 7  -  \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.\"  In addition to the potential effect of these risk factors, any risk factor which could result in reduced earnings or operating losses, or reduced liquidity, could in turn adversely affect our ability to service our liabilities or pay dividends on our common stock or adversely affect the quoted market prices for our securities.. We could incur significant costs related to legal and environmental matters.. We formerly manufactured lead pigments for use in paint.  We and others have been named as defendants in various legal proceedings seeking damages for personal injury, property damage and governmental expenditures allegedly caused by the use of lead-based paints.  These lawsuits seek recovery under a variety of theories, including public and private nuisance, negligent product design, negligent failure to warn, strict liability, breach of warranty, conspiracy/concert of action, aiding and abetting, enterprise liability, market share or risk contribution liability, intentional tort, fraud and misrepresentation, violations of state consumer protection statutes, supplier negligence and similar claims.  The plaintiffs in these actions generally seek to impose on the defendants responsibility for lead paint abatement and health concerns associated with the use of lead-based paints, including damages for personal injury, contribution and/or indemnification for medical expenses, medical monitoring expenses and costs for educational programs.  As with all legal proceedings, the outcome is uncertain.  Any liability we might incur in the future could be material.  See also Item 3 - \"Legal Proceedings - Lead pigment litigation.\". Certain properties and facilities used in our former operations are the subject of litigation, administrative proceedings or investigations arising under various environmental laws.  These proceedings seek cleanup costs, personal injury or property damages and/or damages for injury to natural resources.  Some of these proceedings involve claims for substantial amounts.  Environmental obligations are difficult to assess and estimate for numerous reasons, and we may incur costs for environmental remediation in the future in excess of amounts currently estimated.  Any liability we might incur in the future could be material.  See also Item 3 - \"Legal Proceedings - Environmental matters and litigation.\". - 17 -. Our assets consist primarily of investments in our operating subsidiaries and affiliates, and we are dependent upon distributions from our subsidiaries and affiliates.. The majority of our operating cash flows are generated by our operating subsidiaries and affiliates, and our ability to service liabilities and to pay dividends on our common stock (to the extent such dividends are declared by our board of directors) depends to a large extent upon the cash dividends or other distributions we receive from our subsidiaries and affiliates.  Our subsidiaries and affiliates are separate and distinct legal entities and they have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay such cash dividends or other distributions to us.  In addition, the payment of dividends or other distributions from our subsidiaries and affiliates could be subject to restrictions under applicable law, monetary transfer restrictions, currency exchange regulations in jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries and affiliates operate or any other restrictions imposed by current or future agreements to which our subsidiaries and affiliates may be a party, including debt instruments.  Events beyond our control, including changes in general business and economic conditions, could adversely impact the ability of our subsidiaries and affiliates to pay dividends or make other distributions to us.  If our subsidiaries and affiliates were to become unable to make sufficient cash dividends or other distributions to us, our ability to service our liabilities and to pay dividends on our common stock (if declared) could be adversely affected.. In addition, a significant portion of our assets consist of ownership interests in our subsidiaries and affiliates.  If we were required to liquidate any of such securities in order to generate funds to satisfy our liabilities, we may be required to sell such securities at a time or times at which we would not be able to realize what we believe to be the actual value of such assets.. We operate in mature and highly competitive markets, resulting in pricing pressure and the need to continuously reduce costs.. Many of the markets CompX serves are highly competitive, with a number of competitors offering similar products.  CompX focuses efforts on the middle and high-end business of the market where we feel that we can compete due to the importance of product design, quality and durability to the customer.  However, our ability to effectively compete is impacted by a number of factors.  The occurrence of any of these factors could result in reduced earnings or operating losses.. •  Competitors may be able to drive down prices for our products because their costs are lower than our costs, especially products sourced from Asia.. •  Competitors' financial, technological and other resources may be greater than our resources, which may enable them to more effectively withstand changes in market conditions.. •  Competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements.. •  Consolidation of our competitors or customers in any of the markets in which we compete may result in reduced demand for our products.. •  A reduction of our market share with one or more of our key customers, or a reduction in one or more of our key customers' market share for their end-use products, may reduce demand for our products.. •  New competitors could emerge by modifying their existing production facilities to manufacture products that compete with our products.. •  We may not be able to sustain a cost structure that enables us to be competitive.. •  Customers may no longer value our product design, quality or durability over the lower cost products of our competitors.. Our development of innovative features for our current component products is critical to sustaining and growing our sales.. Historically, CompX's ability to provide value-added custom engineered component products that address requirements of technology and space utilization has been a key element of its success.  CompX spends a significant amount of time and effort to refine, improve and adapt our existing products for new customers and applications.  Since expenditures for these types of activities are not considered research and development expense under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, the amount of our research and development expenditures, which is not significant, is not indicative of the overall effort involved in the development of new product. - 18 -. features.  The introduction of new product features requires the coordination of the design, manufacturing and marketing of the new product features with current and potential customers.  The ability to coordinate these activities with current and potential customers may be affected by factors beyond CompX's control.  While we will continue to emphasize the introduction of innovative new product features that target customer-specific opportunities, we do not know if any new product features CompX introduces will achieve the same degree of success that it has achieved with its existing products.  Introduction of new product features typically requires us to increase production volume on a timely basis while maintaining product quality.  Manufacturers often encounter difficulties in increasing production volumes, including delays, quality control problems and shortages of qualified personnel or raw materials.  As CompX attempts to introduce new product features in the future, we do not know if CompX will be able to increase production volumes without encountering these or other problems, which might negatively impact our financial condition or results of operations.. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights or claims by others that we infringe their intellectual property rights could substantially harm our business.. CompX relies on patent, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries to establish and maintain intellectual property rights in our technology and designs.  Despite these measures, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or misappropriated.  Others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such parties.  Further, we do not know if any of our pending trademark or patent applications will be approved.  Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our intellectual property rights.  In addition, the laws of certain countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States.  Therefore, in certain jurisdictions, we may be unable to protect our technology and designs adequately against unauthorized third party use, which could adversely affect our competitive position.. Third parties may claim that we or our customers are infringing upon their intellectual property rights.  Even if we believe that such claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend and distract our management's and technical staff's attention and resources.  Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected technology, enter into costly settlement or license agreements or pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain of our technology.  If we cannot or do not license the infringed technology on reasonable pricing terms or at all, or substitute similar technology from another source, our business could be adversely impacted.. Higher costs or limited availability of our raw materials may reduce our earnings and decrease our liquidity.. Certain raw materials used in CompX's products are commodities that are subject to significant fluctuations in price in response to world-wide supply and demand as well as speculative investor activity.  Zinc and brass are the principal raw materials used in the manufacture of security products.  Stainless steel tubing is the major raw material used in the manufacture of marine exhaust systems.  These raw materials are purchased from several suppliers and are generally readily available from numerous sources.  CompX occasionally enters into short-term raw material supply arrangements to mitigate the impact of future increases in commodity-related raw material costs.  Materials purchased outside of these arrangements are sometimes subject to unanticipated and sudden price increases.  Should our vendors not be able to meet their contractual obligations or should we otherwise be unable to obtain necessary raw materials, we may incur higher costs for raw materials or may be required to reduce production levels, either of which may decrease our liquidity or negatively impact our financial condition or results of operations as we may be unable to offset the higher costs with increases in our selling prices or reductions in other operating costs.. For Kronos, the number of sources for and availability of certain raw materials is specific to the particular geographical region in which a facility is located.  For example, titanium-containing feedstocks suitable for use in Kronos' TiO2 facilities are available from a limited number of suppliers around the world.  Political and economic instability in the countries from which Kronos purchases its raw material supplies could adversely affect their availability.  If Kronos' worldwide vendors were unable to meet their contractual obligations and Kronos was unable to obtain necessary raw materials, Kronos could incur higher costs for raw materials or may be required to reduce production levels.  Kronos experienced significantly higher ore costs in 2012 which carried over into 2013.  Kronos has seen moderation in the purchase cost of third-party feedstock ore since 2013 through the first half of 2017; however, the cost of third-party feedstock ore Kronos procured in the last half of 2017 is slightly higher as compared. - 19 -. to the first half of 2017.  Kronos may also experience higher operating costs such as energy costs, which could affect its profitability.  Kronos may not always be able to increase its selling prices to offset the impact of any higher costs or reduced production levels, which could reduce Kronos' earnings and decrease its liquidity.. Kronos has long-term supply contracts that provide for its TiO2 feedstock requirements that currently expire through 2019.  While Kronos believes it will be able to renew these contracts, there can be no assurance Kronos will be successful in renewing them or in obtaining long-term extensions to them prior to expiration. Kronos' current agreements (including those entered into through January 2018) require Kronos to purchase certain minimum quantities of feedstock with minimum purchase commitments aggregating approximately $383 million in years subsequent to December 31, 2017.  In addition, Kronos has other long-term supply and service contracts that provide for various raw materials and services. These agreements require Kronos to purchase certain minimum quantities or services with minimum purchase commitments aggregating approximately $131 million at December 31, 2017.  Kronos' commitments under these contracts could adversely affect Kronos' financial results if it significantly reduces its production and were unable to modify the contractual commitments.. Demand for, and prices of, certain of Kronos' products are influenced by changing market conditions for its products, which may result in reduced earnings or in operating losses.. Kronos' sales and profitability is largely dependent on the TiO2 industry.  In 2017, 94% of Kronos' sales were attributable to sales of TiO2.  TiO2 is used in many \"quality of life\" products for which demand historically has been linked to global, regional and local gross domestic product and discretionary spending, which can be negatively impacted by regional and world events or economic conditions.  Such events are likely to cause a decrease in demand for our products and, as a result, may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Pricing within the global TiO2 industry over the long term is cyclical and changes in economic conditions, especially in Western industrialized nations, can significantly impact Kronos' earnings and operating cash flows.  Historically, the markets for many of Kronos' products have experienced alternating periods of increasing and decreasing demand.  Relative changes in the selling prices for Kronos' products are one of the main factors that affect the level of Kronos' profitability.  In periods of increasing demand, Kronos' selling prices and profit margins generally will tend to increase, while in periods of decreasing demand Kronos' selling prices and profit margins generally tend to decrease.  In addition, pricing may affect customer inventory levels as customers may from time to time accelerate purchases of TiO2 in advance of anticipated price increases or defer purchases of TiO2 in advance of anticipated price decreases.  Kronos' ability to further increase capacity without additional investment in greenfield or brownfield capacity increases may be limited and as a result, Kronos' profitability may become even more dependent upon the selling prices of its products.. The TiO2 industry is concentrated and highly competitive and Kronos faces price pressures in the markets in which it operates, which may result in reduced earnings or operating losses.. The global market in which Kronos operates its business is concentrated with the top six TiO2 producers accounting for approximately two-thirds of the world's production capacity and is highly competitive.  Competition is based on a number of factors, such as price, product quality and service.  Some of Kronos' competitors may be able to drive down prices for Kronos' products if their costs are lower than Kronos' costs.  In addition, some of Kronos' competitors' financial, technological and other resources may be greater than Kronos' resources and such competitors may be better able to withstand changes in market conditions.  Kronos' competitors may be able to respond more quickly than it can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements.  Further, consolidation of Kronos' competitors or customers may result in reduced demand for Kronos' products or make it more difficult for it to compete with its competitors.  The occurrence of any of these events could result in reduced earnings or operating losses.. - 20 -. Kronos' leverage may impair our financial condition.. As of December 31, 2017, Kronos had consolidated debt of approximately $474.5 million, which relates primarily to Senior Notes issued in September 2017.  Kronos' level of debt could have important consequences to its stockholders (including us) and creditors, including:. •  making it more difficult for Kronos to satisfy its obligations with respect to its liabilities;. •  increasing its vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions;. •  requiring that a portion of Kronos' cash flows from operations be used for the payment of interest on its debt, which reduces its ability to use cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, dividends on its common stock, acquisitions or general corporate requirements;. •  limiting the ability of Kronos' subsidiaries to pay dividends to Kronos;. •  limiting its ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, dividends on its common stock, acquisitions or general corporate requirements;. •  limiting its flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in Kronos' business and the industry in which it operates; and. •  placing it at a competitive disadvantage relative to other less leveraged competitors.. Indebtedness outstanding under Kronos' revolving North American credit facility and revolving European credit facility accrues interest at variable rates.  To the extent market interest rates rise, the cost of Kronos' debt would increase, adversely affecting Kronos' financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. In addition to Kronos' indebtedness, at December 31, 2017, Kronos is party to various lease and other agreements (including feedstock ore purchase contracts and other long-term supply and service contracts as discussed above) pursuant to which, along with its indebtedness, Kronos is committed to pay approximately $433 million in 2018.  Kronos' ability to make payments on and refinance its debt and to fund planned capital expenditures depends on Kronos' future ability to generate cash flow.  To some extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond Kronos' control.  In addition, Kronos' ability to borrow funds under its revolving credit facilities in the future will, in some instances, depend in part on its ability to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial covenants contained in the applicable credit agreement.. Kronos' business may not generate cash flows from operating activities sufficient to enable Kronos to pay its debts when they become due and to fund other liquidity needs.  As a result, Kronos may need to refinance all or a portion of its debt before maturity.  Kronos may not be able to refinance any of its debt in a timely manner on favorable terms, if at all in the current credit markets.  Any inability to generate sufficient cash flows or to refinance Kronos' debt on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition.. Global climate change legislation could negatively impact our financial results or limit our ability to operate our businesses.. CompX operates production facilities in the United States and Kronos operates production facilities in several countries in North America and Europe.  We believe that all production facilities are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws.  Legislation has been passed, or proposed legislation is being considered, to limit greenhouse gases through various means including emissions permits and/or energy taxes.  In several production facilities, Kronos consumes large amounts of energy, primarily electricity and natural gas.  To date the climate change legislation in effect has not had a material adverse effect on our financial results.  However, if further greenhouse gas legislation were to be enacted in one or more countries, it could negatively impact our future results from operations through increased costs of production, particularly as it relates to our energy requirements or our need to obtain emissions permits.  If such increased costs of production were to materialize, we may be unable to pass price increases onto our customers to compensate for increased production costs, which may decrease our liquidity, income from operations and results of operations.. - 21 -. Technology failures or cyber security breaches could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. We rely on information technology systems to manage, process and analyze data, as well as to facilitate the manufacture and distribution of our products to and from our plants. We receive, process and ship orders, manage the billing of and collections from our customers, and manage the accounting for and payment to our vendors.   Although we have systems and procedures in place to protect our information technology systems, there can be no assurance that such systems and procedures would be sufficiently effective.  Therefore, any of our information technology systems may be susceptible to outages, disruptions or destruction as well as cybersecurity breaches or attacks, resulting in a disruption of our business operations, injury to people, harm to the environment or our assets, and/or the inability to access our information technology systems.  If any of these events were to occur, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected."
