[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Described below are certain risks that we believe are applicable to our business and the oil and gas industry in which we operate. There may be additional risks that are not presently material or known. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. If any of the events described below occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity or access to the capital markets could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the current global economic and political environment intensifies many of these risks.. The oil and gas industry is cyclical and an extended period of suppressed commodity prices could have material adverse effects on our operations, our liquidity, and the price of our common stock.. Our ability to operate profitably, maintain adequate liquidity, grow our cash flow and pay dividends on our common stock depend upon the prices we receive for our crude oil, natural gas, and NGL production. Commodity prices are cyclical and subject to supply and demand dynamics. For the past three years, following the significant decline that began in late 2014, crude oil prices, in particular, have been trading in a much lower range. While we have witnessed a certain degree of commodity price improvement, we expect that economic, geopolitical, and supply and demand forces will remain volatile. As a. 34. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. result we may continue to operate in a soft market, with sustained lower commodity prices, subject to further decline if the excess of supply over demand increases.. If commodity prices continue to trade at low or lower levels for an extended period, one or more of the following could occur:. • significant reductions of our revenues, profit margins, operating income and cash flows;. • reduction in the amount of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs that we can produce economically, leading to shut-in or early abandonment of producing wells and increased capital requirements for abandonment operations;. • certain properties in our portfolio becoming economically unviable;. • impairments of proved or unproved properties or other long-lived assets;. • loss of undeveloped acreage if our production is shut-in or we are unable to make scheduled delay rental payments;. • use of cash flow to satisfy minimum obligations under throughput agreements if production is suspended;. • reduction, or suspension, of our 2018 or future capital investment programs, resulting in a reduced ability to develop our reserves;. • delay, postponement or cancellation of some of our exploration or development projects;. • inability to meet exploration commitments, leading to loss of leases or exploration rights;. • divestments of properties to generate funds to meet cash flow or liquidity requirements;. • limitations on our financial condition, liquidity, including access to sources of capital, such as debt and equity, and/or ability to finance planned capital expenditures and operations;. • failure of our partners to fund their share of development costs or obtain financing could result in delay or cancellation of future projects, thus limiting our growth and future cash flows;. • inability to meet scheduled interest and/or debt payments or payments due under operating or capital leases;. • a series of credit rating downgrades or other negative rating actions which could increase our cost of financing and may increase our requirements to post collateral as financial assurance of performance under certain other contracts which, in turn, could have a negative impact on our liquidity;. • changes in corporate structure that could lead to loss of key personnel and interrupt our business activities; and. • reduction or suspension of dividends on our common stock.. In addition, lower commodity prices, including declines in commodity forward price curves, may result in the following:. • declines in our stock price;. • additional counterparty credit risk exposure on commodity hedges and joint venture receivables; and. • a reduction in the carrying value of goodwill.. Our hedging arrangements in place will not fully mitigate the effects of commodity price volatility.. Furthermore, certain crude oil demand estimates suggest a hypothetical point in the future when global oil demand reaches its peak demand level. The International Energy Agency's 450 Scenario sets out an energy pathway consistent with the goal of limiting the global increase in temperature to 2°C by limiting concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere to around 450 parts per million of CO2. Under this scenario, global oil demand peaks by 2020, and the subsequent decline in demand accelerates year-on-year, so that by the late 2020s global demand is falling by over one million barrels per day every year. This decline in demand, if it occurs, would negatively impact commodity prices as well as our ability to explore for and develop our crude oil and natural gas resources.. Markets and prices for crude oil, natural gas and NGLs depend on factors beyond our control, factors including, among others:. • global demand for crude oil, natural gas and NGLs as impacted by economic factors that affect gross domestic product growth rates of countries around the world;. • global supply for crude oil, natural gas and NGLs as impacted by OPEC and non-OPEC countries (e.g. US, Russia, Canada);. • technology advances that increase crude oil, natural gas and NGL production, thereby increasing supply;. • new technologies that promote fuel efficiency and reduce energy consumption;. • developments in the global LNG market, including exports from the US;. • geopolitical conditions and events, including generational leadership or regime changes, changes in government energy policies, including imposed price controls and/or product subsidies, or instability/armed conflict in hydrocarbon-producing regions;. • fluctuations in US dollar exchange rates, the currency in which the world's crude oil trade is generally denominated;. • the price and availability of alternative fuels, including coal, solar, wind, nuclear energy and biofuels, as well as the availability of battery storage;. • the long-term impact on the crude oil market of the use of natural gas and electricity as an alternative fuel for road transportation or the use of natural gas as fuel for electricity generation impacting the demand for electricity;. • fuel efficiency regulations, such as the Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards, and its impacts on demand for crude oil as a transportation fuel;. 35. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. • the availability of pipeline capacity/infrastructure as well as refining capacity;. • the level and effect of trading in commodity futures markets, including by commodity price speculators and others;. • the effectiveness of worldwide conservation measures;. • weather conditions;. • access to government-owned and other lands for exploration and production activities; and. • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes.. Sector cost inflation could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget.. Our industry is cyclical and third party oilfield materials, service and supply costs are also subject to supply and demand dynamics. During periods of decreasing levels of industry exploration and production, the demand for, and cost of, drilling rigs and oilfield services decreases. Conversely, during periods of increasing levels of industry activity, the demand for, and cost of, drilling rigs and oilfield services increases.. During 2017, increases in US onshore drilling and completion activity resulted in higher demand for oilfield services. As a result, the costs of drilling, equipping and operating wells and infrastructure began to experience some inflation. If this trend continues, and if the commodity price recovery is robust, we expect industry exploration and production activities to continue to increase, resulting in even higher demand for oilfield services and supplies, which could result in significant sector price inflation. In addition, the costs of such items could increase and their availability may become limited, particularly in basins of relatively higher activity. Potential scarcity of competent service personnel may impact our ability to execute our exploration and development plans in a timely and profitable manner.. In addition, regulatory changes, such as those related to hydraulic fracturing or water disposal, may also result in reduced availability and/or higher costs for rigs and services. As a result, drilling rigs and oilfield services may not be available at rates that provide a satisfactory return on our investment.. Our international operations may be adversely affected by economic and geopolitical developments.. We have significant international operations, with approximately 27% of our 2017 total consolidated sales volumes and approximately 52% of our total proved reserves as of December 31, 2017 attributable to our international operations in Israel and Equatorial Guinea. We also conduct exploration activities in other international areas. Our operations may be adversely affected by political and economic developments, including the following:. • renegotiation, modification or nullification of existing contracts, such as may occur pursuant to future regulations enacted as a result of changes in Israel's antitrust, export and natural gas development policies, or the hydrocarbons law enacted in 2006 by the government of Equatorial Guinea, which can result in an increase in the amount of revenues that the host government receives from production (government take) or otherwise decrease project profitability;. • loss of revenue, property and equipment as a result of actions taken by host nations, such as expropriation or nationalization of assets or termination of contracts;. • disruptions caused by territorial or boundary disputes in certain international regions;. • changes in drilling or safety regulations;. • laws and policies of the US and foreign jurisdictions affecting trade, foreign investment, taxation and business conduct;. • potential for Israel natural gas production and regional exports to be interrupted by political conditions and events, and regional instability or armed conflict in the region;. • difficulties enforcing our rights against a governmental agency because of the doctrine of sovereign immunity and foreign sovereignty over international operations;. • US and international monetary policies impacting foreign exchange or repatriation restrictions in countries in which we conduct business;. • war, piracy, acts of terrorism or civil unrest; and. • other hazards arising out of foreign governmental sovereignty over areas in which we conduct operations.. Such political and economic developments could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows and reduce the fair values of our properties, resulting in impairment charges.. Our operations may be adversely affected by changes in the fiscal regimes and related government policies and regulations in the countries in which we operate.. Fiscal regimes impact oil and gas companies through laws and regulations governing resource access along with government participation in oil and gas projects, royalties and taxes. We operate in the US and other countries whose fiscal regimes may change over time. Changes in fiscal regimes result in an increase or decrease in the amount of government financial take from developments, and a corresponding decrease or increase in the revenues of an oil and gas company operating in that particular. 36. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. country.  For example, a significant portion of our production comes from Israel and Equatorial Guinea; therefore, changes in or uncertainties related to the fiscal regimes of these countries could have a significant impact on our operations and financial performance. Further, we cannot predict how government agencies or courts will interpret existing regulations and tax laws or the effect such interpretations could have on our business.. Many governments globally are seeking additional revenue sources, including, potentially, increases in government financial take from oil and gas projects. In developing nations, governments may seek additional revenues to support infrastructure and economic development and for social spending. In many nations of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), governments continue to incur significant budget deficits and growing national debt levels, as well as pressure from financial markets to address structural spending imbalances.. The OECD Base Erosion and Profit Sharing (BEPS) initiative aims to standardize and modernize global tax policy and disclosure of financial and operational data with tax authorities. The BEPS's recommendations are being widely adopted by the majority of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate and many of these jurisdictions are party to the Multilateral Convention to Implement Tax Treaty Related Measures to Prevent Base Erosion and Profit Shifting. Progress on the implementation of BEPS measures and development of tax authority interpretation could result in changes to tax policies, including transfer pricing policies. To the extent such changes significantly increase the overall tax imposed on currently producing projects, these projects could become less economic, or wholly uneconomic, thereby reducing the amount of proved reserves we record and cash flows we receive, and possibly resulting in asset impairment charges.. Changes in fiscal regimes have long-term impacts on our business strategy, and fiscal uncertainty makes it difficult to formulate and execute capital investment programs. The implementation of new, or the modification of existing, laws or regulations increasing the tax costs on our business could disrupt our business plans and negatively impact our operations and our stock price in the following ways, among others:. • restrict resource access or investment in lease holdings;. • limit or cancel exploration and/or development activities, which could have a long-term negative impact on the quantities of proved reserves we record and inhibit future production growth;. • have a negative impact on the ability of us and/or our partners to obtain financing;. • reduce the profitability of our projects, resulting in decreases in net income and cash flows with the potential to make future investments uneconomical;. • result in currently producing projects becoming uneconomic, to the extent fiscal changes are retroactive, thereby reducing the amount of proved reserves we record and cash flows we receive, and possibly resulting in asset impairment charges;. • require that valuation allowances be established against deferred tax assets, with offsetting increases in income tax expense, resulting in decreases in net income and cash flow; and/or. • restrict our ability to compete with imported volumes of crude oil or natural gas.. Tax laws and regulations may change over time, and could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, the US Congress enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Reform Legislation). The Tax Reform Legislation, among other things, (i) permanently reduces the US corporate income tax rate to 21% beginning in 2018, (ii) repeals the corporate alternative minimum tax (AMT) allowing for corresponding refunds of prior period AMT credits,  (iii) provides for a five year period of 100% bonus depreciation followed by a phase-down of the bonus depreciation percentage, (iv) imposes a new limitation on the utilization of net operating losses generated in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, and (v) provides for more general changes to the taxation of corporations, including changes to the deductibility of interest expense, the adoption of a modified territorial tax system, assessing a repatriation tax or \"toll-charge\" on undistributed earnings and profits of US-owned foreign corporations, and introducing certain anti-base erosion provisions. The Tax Reform Legislation is complex and far-reaching and could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that currently are available with respect to oil and gas development, or increase costs.  The ultimate impact of the Tax Reform Legislation may differ from our estimates due to changes in interpretations and assumptions made by us as well as additional regulatory guidance that may be issued, and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected.. In addition, from time to time, legislation has been proposed that, if enacted into law, would make significant changes to US federal and state income tax laws, including (i) the elimination of the immediate deduction for intangible drilling and development costs, (ii) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties; and (iii) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. While these specific changes are not included in the Tax Reform Legislation, no accurate prediction can be made as to whether any such legislative changes will be proposed or enacted in the future, or the timing of any such action. The elimination of such US federal tax deductions, as well as any other changes to or the imposition of new federal, state, local or non-US taxes (including the imposition of, or increases in production, severance or similar taxes) could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. 37. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. We are subject to increasing governmental regulations and environmental requirements that may cause us to incur substantial incremental costs.. Our industry is subject to complex laws and regulations adopted or promulgated by international, federal, state and local authorities relating to the exploration for, and the development, production and marketing of, crude oil, natural gas and NGLs. As the various government and/or regulatory bodies issue or rescind various regulations, our operations are subject to significant volatility in response to the issuance, interpretation and application of these regulations.. Changes in price controls, taxes and environmental laws relating to our industry have the ability to substantially affect crude oil, natural gas and NGL production, operations and economics. Environmental laws, in particular, can change frequently, often become stricter and at times may force us to incur additional costs as changes are implemented.. We cannot always predict with certainty how agencies or courts will interpret existing laws and regulations or the effect these interpretations may have on our business or financial condition.. Additionally, the unintentional discharge of natural gas, crude oil, or other pollutants into the air, soil or water may give rise to liabilities on our part to government agencies and/or third parties, and may require us to incur costs to achieve remediation objectives and/or requirements.. In April 2015, for example, we entered into a Consent Decree with the US EPA, US Department of Justice and State of Colorado to improve emission control systems at a number of our condensate storage tanks in the DJ Basin. The Consent Decree required us to pay a civil penalty and to perform certain injunctive relief activities, mitigation projects, and supplemental environmental projects. We continue to incur costs associated with these activities. In addition, compliance with the Consent Decree could result in the temporary shut in or permanent plugging and abandonment of certain wells and associated tank batteries within the Non-Attainment Area of the DJ Basin.. Noncompliance with existing or future legislation or regulations could potentially result in an increased risk of civil or criminal fines or sanctions. For example, fines or sanctions associated with a well incident or spill could well exceed the actual cost of containment and cleanup.. Further expansion of environmental, safety and performance regulations or an increase in liability for drilling or production activities, including punitive fines, may have one or more of the following impacts on our business:. • increase the costs of drilling exploratory and development wells;. • cause delays in, or preclude, the development of our projects resulting in longer development cycle times;. • result in additional operating and capital costs;. • divert our cash flows from capital investments in order to maintain liquidity;. • increase or remove liability caps for claims of damages from oil spills;. • increase our share of civil or criminal fines or sanctions for actual or alleged violations if a well incident were to occur; and. • limit our ability to obtain additional insurance coverage, at a level that balances the cost of insurance and our desired rates of return, to protect against any increase in liability.. Any of the above operating or financial factors may result in a reduction of our cash flows, profitability, and the fair value of our properties or reduce our financial flexibility. Because we strive to achieve certain levels of return on our projects, an increase in our financial responsibility could result in certain of our planned projects becoming uneconomic. See Items 1. and 2. Business and Properties  -  Regulations.. We face various risks associated with global populism and general political uncertainty.. Following the 2008/2009 global financial crisis, the world has experienced lower economic growth versus the levels attained in previous decades. This has resulted in economic stagnation for certain citizens and, as a result, there are concerns around jobs, economic well-being and wealth distribution. Globally, certain individuals and organizations are attempting to focus the public's attention on income and wealth distribution and implement income and wealth redistribution policies.. In addition, if efforts to challenge and change individual and/or corporate taxation are successful, they could result in increased taxation on individuals and/or corporations, as well as, potentially, increased regulation on companies and financial institutions. These measures would further burden companies and individuals with additional tax costs.. Recent events have intensified these risks. In the US, the growing trends toward populism and political polarization, has resulted in uncertainty regarding potential changes in regulations, fiscal policy, social programs, domestic and foreign relations and international trade policies. Global uncertainty and/or reductions in global trade activities could contribute to slower economic growth which could negatively impact business and commerce.. Potential changes in relationships among the US, China and Russia, or among China, Russia and other countries, can have significant impacts on the balance of power, as well as on global trade, with further impacts on both global and local. 38. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. economies. In addition, changes in the relationships between the US and its neighbors, such as Mexico, can have significant, potentially negative, impacts on commerce. In Europe, the populist movement has resulted in the Brexit vote and increasing populist demands and rises in nationalism could have a negative impact on economic policy and consequently pose a potential threat to the unity of the European Union.. Our ability to respond to these developments or comply with any resulting new legal or regulatory requirements, including those involving economic and trade sanctions, as well as any potential increased tax expense, could reduce our ability to negotiate the sale of our products, increase our costs of doing business, reduce our financial flexibility and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of our operations.. We face various risks associated with the trend toward increased anti-oil and gas development activity.. In recent years, we have seen significant growth in opposition to oil and gas development both in the US and globally.. Companies in our industry can be the target of opposition to hydrocarbon development from stakeholder groups, including national, state and local governments, regulatory agencies, non-government organizations and public citizens. This opposition is focused on attempting to limit or stop hydrocarbon development. Examples of such opposition include: efforts to reduce access to public and private lands; delaying or canceling permits for drilling or pipeline construction; limiting or banning industry techniques such as hydraulic fracturing, and/or adding restrictions on or the use of water and associated disposal; imposition of set-backs on oil and gas sites; delaying or denying air-quality permits; advocating for increased regulations, punitive taxation, or citizen ballot initiatives or moratoriums on industry activity; and the use of social media channels to cause reputational harm. We have experienced these efforts in Colorado in the past and it is likely they will continue into the future.   Recent efforts by the US Administration to modify federal oil and gas related regulations could intensify the risk of anti-development efforts from grass roots opposition.. Our need to incur costs associated with responding to these anti-development efforts, including legal challenges, or complying with any new legal or regulatory requirements resulting from these efforts, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Restricted land access could reduce our ability to explore for and develop crude oil, natural gas and NGL reserves.. Our ability to adequately explore for and develop crude oil, natural gas and NGL resources is affected by a number of factors related to access to land. Examples of factors which reduce our access to land include, among others:. • new municipal, state or federal land use regulations, which may restrict drilling locations or certain activities such as hydraulic fracturing;. • local and municipal government control of land or zoning requirements, which can conflict with state law and deprive land owners of property development rights;. • landowner, community and/or governmental opposition to infrastructure development;. • regulation of federal and Indian land by the BLM;. • anti-development activities, which can reduce our access to leases through legal challenges or lawsuits, disruption of drilling, or damage to equipment;. • the presence of threatened or endangered species or of their habitat;. • disputes regarding leases; and. • disputes with landowners, royalty owners, or other operators over such matters as title transfer, joint interest billing arrangements, revenue distribution, or production or cost sharing arrangements.. Loss of access to land for which we own mineral rights could result in a reduction in our proved reserves and a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. Reduced ability to obtain new leases could constrain our future growth and opportunity set by limiting the expansion of our upstream portfolio. In addition, loss of rights granted under surface use agreements, rights-of-way, surface leases or other easement rights, could disrupt or prohibit our ability to construct or operate midstream assets and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. A change in international and/or US federal and state climate policy could have a significant impact on our operations and profitability.. Domestic and international response to climate and related energy issues are matters of public policy consideration. We are currently in a period of increasing uncertainty as to these matters, and, at this time, it is difficult to anticipate how the current US Administration, or other entities, may act on exiting or new laws and regulations. As compared with certain large multi-national, integrated energy companies, we do not conduct fundamental research regarding the scientific inquiry of climate change. However, we will continue to closely monitor all relevant developments in this regard. Changes in international, federal or state laws and regulations regarding climate policy could have a significant negative impact on our ability to explore for and develop crude oil and natural gas resources or reduce demand for our products.. 39. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. In recent years, international, federal, state and local governments have taken steps to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. The EPA has finalized a series of greenhouse gas monitoring, reporting and emissions control rules for the oil and natural gas industry, and the US Congress has, from time to time, considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions. Almost one-half of states in the US have taken measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases primarily through the development of greenhouse gas emission inventories and/or regional greenhouse gas cap-and-trade programs. For a description of existing and proposed greenhouse gas rules and regulations, see Items 1. and 2. Business and Properties - Regulations.. In addition, claims have been made against certain energy companies alleging that greenhouse gas emissions from oil and natural gas operations constitute a public nuisance under federal and/or state common law. As a result, private individuals or other entities may make claims against us for alleged personal injury, property damage, or other potential liabilities. While our business is not a party to any such litigation, we could be named in actions making similar allegations. An unfavorable ruling in any such case could impact our operations and could have an adverse impact on our financial condition.. Moreover, there has been public discussion that climate change may be associated with extreme weather conditions such as more intense hurricanes, thunderstorms, tornadoes and snow or ice storms, as well as rising sea levels. Another possible consequence of climate change is increased volatility in seasonal temperatures. Some studies indicate that climate change could cause some areas to experience temperatures substantially hotter or colder than their historical averages. Extreme weather conditions can interfere with our production and increase our costs and damage resulting from extreme weather may not be fully insured.. Our Eastern Mediterranean discoveries bear certain geopolitical, regulatory, financial and technical challenges that could adversely impact our ability to monetize these natural gas assets.. We have entered into and are currently negotiating various long-term GSPAs for our Eastern Mediterranean natural gas assets. Some of these agreements would require the export of natural gas from either Israel or Cyprus to other countries in the region, such as Egypt and Jordan. These agreements are subject to a variety of risks, including geopolitical, regulatory, financial and other uncertainties. War, political violence, civil unrest or lack of intergovernmental cooperation could affect both our and our counterparties' abilities to cooperate and to perform under these agreements, and could potentially lead to a breach or termination of such agreements. In addition, economic conditions or financial duress of our counterparties could jeopardize their ability to fulfill their payment obligations under these contracts.  Furthermore, if material disruptions occur, including events or circumstances constituting force majeure under contract provisions, such that they inhibit us or our counterparties from performing under these GSPAs, or our counterparties are unable to pay us for a sustained period of time, we could incur significant financial losses. While the State of Israel continues to maintain its ability to generate electricity via coal-fired power plants, as they transition from coal-fired power plants to natural gas-fired power plants, they become more dependent on us and our partners for their source of natural gas supply. Any material disruption in our ability to deliver natural gas to the State of Israel could have a material impact on our expected profitability, financial performance and reputation.. We are subject to certain regulatory provisions under the Framework, as adopted by the Government of Israel, including a requirement to reduce our ownership in the Tamar and Dalit fields to 25% by the end of 2021. We recently signed a definitive agreement to divest a 7.5% working interest in each of the fields to Tamar Petroleum Ltd., closing of the transaction is subject to satisfactory conclusion of certain conditions, including Tamar Petroleum's debt financing. Upon closing, we will receive consideration of both cash and Tamar Petroleum Ltd. shares, approximating 70% and 30%, respectively, of the transaction value, which will fluctuate based on market conditions. In accordance with the Framework, we must divest Tamar Petroleum Ltd. shares received by the end of 2021. In addition, changes in Israel's fiscal and/or regulatory regimes or energy policies occurring as a result of government policy on natural gas development and/or exports could delay or reduce the profitability of our Tamar and/or Leviathan development projects, and/or render future exploration and development projects uneconomic.. Development of our Eastern Mediterranean natural gas assets requires substantial investment and will take several years to complete. Our partners must be able to fund their share of investment costs through the development cycle, through cash flow from operations, external credit facilities, or other sources, including financing arrangements. If our project partners' cash flows or ability to maintain adequate financing are negatively impacted through similar risks factors described herein, the development of a project could be delayed and the timing and receipt of planned cash flows and expected profitability could be negatively impacted.. 40. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Due to the scale of our Leviathan (Israel) and Aphrodite (Cyprus) discoveries, realization of their full economic value depends on our ability to execute successful phased, development scenarios, the failure or delay of which could reduce our future growth and have negative effects on our future operating results. Offshore projects of this magnitude entail significant technical complexities including subsea tiebacks to a FPSO or production platform, pressure maintenance systems, gas re-injection systems, onshore receiving terminals, or other specialized infrastructure. In addition, we depend on third-party technology and service providers and other supply chain participants for these complex projects. Delays and differences between estimated and actual timing of critical events related to these projects could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Concentration of capital in, and production and cash flows from, certain operations may increase our exposure to risks enumerated herein.. A significant portion of our production and revenues is highly concentrated and is generated from a limited number of conventional deepwater wells. These wells, located in the Gulf of Mexico, offshore Israel and offshore Equatorial Guinea, contributed approximately 33% of our 2017 total consolidated revenues and 34% of our 2017 total consolidated sales volumes. In addition, with the recording of reserves associated with the initial development of the Leviathan field, we now have a major concentration of reserves offshore Israel, with approximately 47% of our year-end 2017 proved reserves attributable to this area. These fields are also capital and resource-intensive.. Although we carry contingent business interruption for these producing assets, as well as other insurance, the insurance may be insufficient to cover all of risks including, a disruption to downstream operations impacting the processing, marketing and distribution of our production, such as from an accident, natural disaster, government intervention or other event, would have a significant impact on our production profile, cash flows, profitability, and overall business plan.. We also have significant concentrations of capital and production in unconventional basins including the DJ Basin, Delaware Basin and Eagle Ford Shale, and we expect to invest approximately 65%, of our total capital investment program to development activities in these areas in 2018. Restrictions in land access, rapid changes in drilling and completion technology, significant increases in drilling and completion costs, lack of availability of downstream services, changes in regulations and other risks impacting these areas, as enumerated in certain risk factors described herein, can have immediate, significant negative impacts on our production, cash flows, profitability and financial position.. A cyber incident could result in information theft, data corruption, operational disruption and/or financial loss.. We depend on digital technology, including information systems and related infrastructure as well as cloud applications and services, to process and record financial and operating data, communicate with our employees and business partners, analyze seismic and drilling information, estimate quantities of oil and gas reserves as well as other activities related to our business. Our business partners, including vendors, service providers, purchasers of our production, and financial institutions, are also dependent on digital technology. The technologies needed to conduct oil and gas exploration and development activities in deepwater, ultra-deepwater and shale, as well as technologies supporting midstream operations and global competition for oil and gas resources make certain information the target of theft or misappropriation.. As dependence on digital technologies has increased, cyber incidents, including deliberate attacks or unintentional events, also has increased. A cyber attack could include gaining unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption, or result in denial-of-service on websites. SCADA-based systems are potentially vulnerable to targeted cyber attacks due to their critical role in operations.. Our technologies, systems, networks, and those of our business partners may become the target of cyber attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of proprietary and other information, or other disruption of our business operations. In addition, certain cyber incidents, such as surveillance, may remain undetected for an extended period.. Our implementation of various controls and processes to monitor and mitigate security threats and to increase security for our information, facilities and infrastructure is costly and labor intensive. Moreover, there can be no assurance that such measures will be sufficient to prevent security breaches from occurring. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.. Our operations may be adversely affected by violent acts such as from civil disturbances, terrorist acts, regime changes, cross-border violence, war, piracy, or other conflicts that may occur in regions that encompass our operations.. 41. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Certain regions, such as the Middle East and Africa, continue to experience varying degrees of political instability, public protests and terrorist attacks. We operate in regions of the world that have experienced such incidents or are in close proximity to areas where violence has occurred. Terrorist attacks and the threat of terrorist attacks, whether domestic or foreign, as well as military or other actions taken in response to these acts, could cause instability in the global financial and energy markets. Continued or escalated civil and political unrest and acts of terrorism in the regions in which we operate could result in curtailment of our operations. In the event that regions in which we operate experience civil or political unrest or acts of terrorism, especially in areas where such unrest leads to regime change, our operations in such regions could be materially impaired.. We monitor the economic and political environments of the countries in which we operate. However, we are unable to predict the occurrence of disturbances such as those noted above. In addition, we have limited ability to mitigate their impact.. Civil disturbances, terrorist acts, regime changes, war, or conflicts, or the threats thereof, could have the following results, among others:. • increased volatility in global crude oil, natural gas and NGL prices which could negatively impact the global economy, resulting in slower economic growth rates, which could reduce demand for our products;. • negative impact on the global crude oil supply if infrastructure or transportation are disrupted, leading to further commodity price volatility;. • difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified personnel to work in areas with potential for conflict;. • inability of our personnel or supplies to enter or exit the countries where we are conducting operations;. • disruption of our operations due to evacuation of personnel;. • inability to deliver our production due to disruption or closing of transportation routes;. • reduced ability to export our production due to efforts of countries to conserve domestic resources;. • damage to or destruction of our wells, production facilities, receiving terminals or other operating assets;. • damage to or destruction of property belonging to our natural gas purchasers leading to interruption of natural gas deliveries, claims of force majeure, and/or termination of natural gas sales contracts, resulting in a reduction in our revenues;. • inability of our service and equipment providers to deliver items necessary for us to conduct our operations;. • lack of availability of drilling rigs, oilfield equipment or services if third party providers decide to exit the region;. • shutdown of a financial system, communications network, or power grid causing a disruption to our business activities; and. • capital market reassessment of risk and reduction of available capital making it more difficult for us and our partners to obtain financing for potential development projects.. Loss of property and/or interruption of our business plans resulting from civil unrest could have a significant negative impact on our earnings and cash flow. In addition, we may not have enough insurance to cover any loss of property or other claims resulting from these risks.. Exploration, development and production activities carry inherent risk.  These activities, as well as natural disasters or adverse weather conditions, could result in liability exposure or the loss of production and revenues.. Our crude oil and natural gas operations are subject to hazards and risks inherent in the drilling, production and transportation of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs, including:. • pipeline ruptures and spills;. • fires, explosions, blowouts and well cratering;. • equipment malfunctions and/or mechanical failure on high-volume, high-impact wells;. • malfunctions of, or damage to, gathering, processing, compression and transportation facilities and equipment and other facilities and equipment utilized in support of our crude oil, natural gas and NGL operations;. • leaks or spills occurring during the transfer of hydrocarbons from an FPSO to an oil tanker;. • loss of product occurring as a result of transfer to a rail car or train derailments;. • formations with abnormal pressures and basin subsidence which could result in leakage or loss of access to hydrocarbons;. • release of pollutants; and. • spills, leaks or discharges of fluids used in or produced in the course of operations, especially those that reach surface water or groundwater.. Some of these risks or hazards could materially and adversely affect our revenues and expenses by reducing or shutting in production from wells, loss of equipment or otherwise negatively impacting the projected economic performance of our projects. In addition, our ability to deliver product pursuant to long-term supply contracts could be negatively impacted resulting in additional financial exposure in the event we cannot fully deliver the contract quantities.. 42. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Any of these risks or hazards can result in injuries and/or deaths of employees, supplier personnel or other individuals, loss of hydrocarbons, environmental pollution and other damage to our properties or the properties of others, regulatory investigations and administrative, civil and criminal penalties or restricted access to our properties.. In addition, our operations and financial results could be significantly impacted by adverse weather conditions and natural disasters in the areas we operate including:. • hurricanes, tropical storms, cyclones, windstorms, or \"superstorms\" which could affect our operations in areas such as Texas and the Gulf of Mexico;. • winter storms and snow which could affect our operations in the DJ Basin;. • extremely high temperatures, which could affect third party gathering and processing facilities in the DJ Basin and Texas;. • severe droughts resulting in new restrictions on water usage in the DJ Basin and Texas;. • harsh weather and rough seas offshore certain international locations, which could limit exploration activities; and. • other natural disasters.. Any of these can result in loss of hydrocarbons, environmental pollution and other damage to our properties or the properties of others, or restricted access to our properties.. Development drilling may not result in commercially productive quantities of crude oil and natural gas reserves from unconventional or conventional resources.. We depend on development projects to provide sustained cash flows after investment and attractive financial returns. However, development drilling is not always successful and the profitability of development projects may change over time.. In new development areas, available data may not allow us to completely know the extent of the reservoir or the best locations for drilling development wells. Therefore, a development well we drill may be a dry hole or result in noncommercial quantities of hydrocarbons.. We are planning to invest significant amounts of capital to continue development of our US onshore unconventional resources as well as to progress the development of the Leviathan field project. In unconventional basins, development is highly dependent on the use of new technologies to drive cost efficiencies in drilling and completion as well as on the availability of third party infrastructure to provide flow assurance and transportation of production to end markets.. Development of offshore resources is capital and resource-intensive and may require several years to complete. In order to timely advance significant offshore discoveries, we may progress multiple development concepts simultaneously, with the realization that only one concept may ultimately be approved or be economically feasible. This approach may result in our writing off costs related to certain development concepts that must be eliminated from further consideration once a final development option has been determined.. Even if development drilling is successful and we find commercial quantities of reserves, we may encounter difficulties or delays in completing development wells. For example, frontier areas or less developed onshore areas may not have adequate infrastructure for gathering, processing or transportation, and production may be delayed until such infrastructure is constructed.. Exploratory drilling, either within existing or new ventures in countries which have no history of hydrocarbon sector investment, subjects us to risks and may not result in the discovery of commercially productive reservoirs.. Exploratory drilling requires significant capital investment and does not always result in commercial quantities of hydrocarbons or new development projects. In addition, exploratory drilling activities may be curtailed, delayed or canceled, or development plans may change, resulting in significant exploration expense, as a result of a variety of factors, including unexpected drilling conditions and pressure or other irregularities in formations. Furthermore, remote locations may make it more difficult and time-consuming to transport personnel, equipment and supplies, and we may face more difficult environments, such as oil sands, deepwater, or ultra-deepwater in our efforts to seek new reserves, and may need to develop or invest in new technologies. These operating environments, and potential for harsh weather, increase cost as well as drilling risk.. Exploratory dry holes can occur because seismic data and other technologies we use to determine potential exploratory drilling locations do not allow us to know conclusively prior to drilling a well that crude oil or natural gas is present or may be produced economically. In addition, a well may be successful in locating hydrocarbons, but we and our partners may decide not to develop the prospect due to other considerations.. 43. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. In addition, for certain capital-intensive offshore projects, it may take several years to evaluate the future potential of an exploratory well and make a determination of its economic viability, resulting in delays in cash flows from production start-up and a lower return on our investment.. We hold working interests in certain areas, including offshore areas of Cyprus, Cameroon, Gabon and Newfoundland (Canada) where there is minimal or no crude oil, natural gas or NGL production, and in certain cases, limited infrastructure. If commercial quantities of hydrocarbons are discovered, societies with minimal or no current production must begin to address such topics as sector regulation and distribution of government proceeds from hydrocarbon sales, the results of which could have a negative impact on our business. We may not be able to compensate for or fully mitigate these risks. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  -  Note 6.  Capitalized Exploratory Well Costs and Undeveloped Leasehold Costs.. Our operations require us to comply with a number of US and international laws and regulations, violations of which could result in substantial fines or sanctions and/or impair our ability to do business.. Our operations require us to comply with complex and frequently-changing US and international laws and regulations, such as those involving anti-corruption, competition and antitrust, anti-boycott, anti-money laundering, import-export control, marketing, environmental and/or taxation.. For example, the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and similar laws and regulations enacted or promulgated by countries pursuant to the 1997 Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development Anti-Bribery Convention generally prohibit improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. We conduct some of our operations in developing countries that have relatively underdeveloped legal and regulatory systems compared to more developed countries. These countries generally are perceived as presenting an increased risk of corruption. Additionally, certain of our operations involve the use of agents and other intermediaries whose conduct and actions could be imputed to us by anti-corruption enforcement authorities. Violations of the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws could subject us to substantial fines or sanctions and impair our ability to do business.. The import/export of equipment and supplies necessary for oil and gas exploration and development activities, as well as the export of crude oil, natural gas, and liquids production are regulated by the import/export laws of the US and other countries in which we operate. In the US, certain items required for oil and gas development activities may be considered \"dual-use\", having both commercial and military applications and, therefore, may be subject to specific import or export restrictions. In addition, the US government imposes economic and trade sanctions against certain foreign countries and regimes. The sanctions are based on US foreign policy and national security goals and may change over time.. Mergers of businesses often require the approval of certain government or regulatory agencies and such approval could contain terms, conditions, or restrictions that would be detrimental to our business after a merger. US antitrust laws require waiting periods and even after completion of a merger, governmental authorities could seek to block or challenge a merger as they deem necessary or desirable in the public interest. We have merged with or acquired other companies in the past. Prevention of a merger by antitrust laws could impair our ability to do business. Furthermore, mergers and acquisitions expose us to potential lawsuits or other obligations not yet anticipated at time of merger or acquisition. Such liabilities and obligations could hinder our ability to fully benefit from the acquired business or assets and negatively impact our financial performance.. As a developer, owner and operator of crude oil and natural gas properties, we are subject to various laws and regulations relating to the discharge of materials into, and the protection of, the environment. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, the suspension or revocation of necessary permits, licenses and authorizations, the requirement that additional pollution controls be installed and, in some instances, issuance of orders or injunctions limiting or requiring discontinuation of certain operations. See We are subject to increasing governmental regulations and environmental requirements that may cause us to incur substantial incremental costs, below, and Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  -  Note 17.  Commitments and Contingencies.. Federal, state and local hydraulic fracturing and water disposal legislation and regulation could increase our costs or restrict our ability to produce crude oil, natural gas and NGLs economically and in commercial quantities.. While hydraulic fracturing has been utilized in oil and gas development for decades, certain parties have called for further study of the technique's alleged environmental and health effects, for additional regulation of the technique and, in some cases, for a moratorium or ban on the use of hydraulic fracturing. Because of elevated public sensitivity around the topic, federal, state and local governments are continually conducting studies, evaluating their regulatory programs and considering additional requirements on and regulation of hydraulic fracturing practices.. At the national level, proposals have been introduced from time to time in the US Congress that, if implemented, would subject hydraulic fracturing to further regulation, thereby limiting its use or increasing its cost.. 44. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Federal agencies addressing hydraulic fracturing under existing authorities include the EPA, which has issued technical reports and developed various rules and guidelines regarding hydraulic fracturing activities, and the BLM, under the US Department of the Interior, which has issued final rules impacting hydraulic fracturing on federal and Indian lands. Some of these rules are subject to pending challenges and, on March 28, 2017, an executive order was signed directing the EPA and the BLM to review their rules and, if appropriate, to initiate rulemaking to rescind or revise them consistent with the stated policy of promoting clean and safe development of the nation's energy resources, while at the same time avoiding regulatory burdens that unnecessarily encumber energy production.  Accordingly, the EPA and the BLM have taken actions to delay or rescind certain requirements related to hydraulic fracturing activities. See Items 1. and 2. Business and Properties - Hydraulic Fracturing.. Each of the states, as well as certain localities, where we operate have adopted or may adopt regulations on drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing in particular that could restrict or prohibit hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances, impose more stringent operating standards and/or require the disclosure of the composition of hydraulic fracturing fluids. For example, a number of local communities in Colorado have attempted to increase regulatory requirements on crude oil and natural gas development. In addition, some state regulatory agencies have modified their regulations to account for potential induced seismicity with regard to the operation of injection wells used for waste disposal.. We are dependent on the use of hydraulic fracturing practices to produce commercial quantities of crude oil and natural gas, particularly from wells in our US onshore basins. Additional federal, state or local restrictions on hydraulic fracturing, water disposal or other drilling activities that may be imposed in areas where we conduct business, such as US onshore, could significantly increase our operating, capital and compliance costs as well as delay or halt our ability to develop crude oil, natural gas and NGL reserves. See Items 1. and 2. Business and Properties  -  Regulations and  -  Hydraulic Fracturing.. The marketability of our production is dependent upon transportation and processing facilities over which we may have no direct control.. The marketability of our production from our US onshore areas and Gulf of Mexico depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines, natural gas gathering systems, rail service, and processing facilities. We deliver crude oil, natural gas and NGLs produced from these areas through gathering systems and pipelines, the majority of which we do not own.. In Israel, we rely on a state-owned pipeline and transportation system to deliver our production to customers and end users. Offshore Equatorial Guinea, our natural gas production is delivered to onshore processing and storage facilities operated by our partner, and the resulting products, as well as our crude oil production from Aseng and Alen, are lifted to tankers owned by third-parties.. Third-party systems and facilities may not be available to us in the future at a price that is acceptable to us. In addition, the lack of availability of, or capacity on, third-party systems and facilities could reduce the price offered for our production or result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. Even where we have some contractual control over the transportation of our production through firm transportation arrangements, third-party systems and facilities may be temporarily unavailable due to market conditions or mechanical reliability or other reasons, including adverse weather conditions.. Any significant change in market factors or other conditions affecting these infrastructure systems and facilities, as well as any delays in constructing new infrastructure systems and facilities, could delay or curtail production, thereby harming our business and, in turn, our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition.. Our ability to produce crude oil, natural gas and NGLs economically and in commercial quantities could be impaired if we are unable to acquire adequate supplies of water for our drilling operations or are unable to dispose of or recycle the water we use economically and in an environmentally safe manner.. Drilling and development activities require the use of water and results in the production of waste water. For example, the hydraulic fracturing process, which we employ to produce commercial quantities of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs from many reservoirs, requires the use and disposal of significant quantities of water. In certain regions, there may be insufficient local capacity to provide a source of water for drilling activities. In those cases, water must be obtained from other sources and transported to the drilling site, adding to the development cost. Waste water from oil and gas operations often is disposed of via underground injection. Some studies have linked earthquakes or induced seismicity in certain areas to underground injection, which is leading to increased public scrutiny of injection safety.. The development of new environmental initiatives or regulations related to acquisition, withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater, or treatment and discharge of water waste, may limit our ability to use techniques such as hydraulic fracturing, increase our development and operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or termination of our operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted, all of which could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. See Items 1. and 2. Business and Properties  -  Hydraulic Fracturing.. 45. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Failure to adequately fund continued capital expenditures could adversely affect our properties.. Our exploration, development, and acquisition activities require capital expenditures to achieve production and cash flows. In particular, major offshore projects have a multi-year long development cycle time, which means that development spending occurs for several years before the project begins producing hydrocarbons and generating cash flows. As examples, assets and infrastructure for export of natural gas from Leviathan require a multi-billion dollar investment prior to production startup. Furthermore, while the majority of our assets are held by production, certain of our assets, such as our Eagle Ford Shale and Delaware Basin properties, are held through continuous development obligations. Therefore, we are contractually obligated to fund a level of development activity in these areas and failure to meet these obligations may result in the loss of a lease.. Historically, we have funded our capital expenditures through a combination of cash flows from operations, our unsecured revolving credit facility (Revolving Credit Facility), debt and equity issuances, and occasional sales of assets. Future cash flows from operations are subject to a number of variables, such as the level of production from existing wells, commodity prices, and our success in finding, developing and producing new reserves.. For 2018, our capital investment program is flexible to address potential commodity price changes. If commodity prices decline  for an extended period of time, we will evaluate our level of capital spending and likely reduce our investment program. As a result, we will have less ability to replace our reserves through drilling operations and may elect to forfeit our ownership interests or rights to participate in some properties, resulting in lower production over time as compared with prior years. See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Operating Outlook  -  2018 Capital Investment Program.. A negative shift in investor sentiment of the oil and gas industry could adversely affect our ability to raise equity and debt capital.. Certain segments of the investor community have recently developed negative sentiment towards investing in our industry. Recent equity returns in the sector versus other industry sectors have led to lower oil and gas representation in certain key equity market indices. Some investors, including certain pension funds, university endowments and family foundations, have stated policies to disinvest in the oil and gas sector based on their social and environment considerations. Certain other stakeholders have also pressured commercial and investment banks to stop funding oil and gas projects.. Such developments could result in downward pressure on the stock prices of oil and gas companies, including ours.  This may also potentially result in a reduction of available capital funding for potential development projects impacting our future financial results.. Indebtedness may limit our liquidity and financial flexibility.. At December 31, 2017, we had $6.8 billion of consolidated debt, and indebtedness represented 39% of our total book capitalization (sum of debt plus shareholders' equity).. Our indebtedness affects our operations in several ways, including the following:. • a portion of our cash flows from operating activities must be used to service our indebtedness and is not available for other purposes;. • we may be at a competitive disadvantage as compared to similar companies that have less debt;. • a covenant contained in our Credit Agreement provides that our total debt to capitalization ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement) will not exceed 65% at any time, which may make additional borrowings more expensive, thereby affecting our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in the economy and our industry;. • additional future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes may have higher costs and more restrictive covenants;. • changes in our debt credit ratings may negatively affect the cost, terms, conditions and/or availability of future financing, and lower ratings will increase the interest rate and fees we pay on our Revolving Credit Facility; and. • we may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions.. We may incur additional debt in order to fund our exploration, development and acquisition activities. A higher level of indebtedness increases the risk that our financial flexibility may deteriorate. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and service our debt depends on future performance. General economic conditions, commodity prices, and financial, business and other factors will affect our operations and our future performance. Many of these factors are beyond our control and we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay the interest on our debt, and future working capital, borrowings and equity financing may not be available to pay or refinance such debt. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  -  Note 10.  Long-Term Debt.. 46. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. A downgrade or other negative action with respect to our credit rating could negatively impact our business and financial condition.. A downgrade or other negative rating action could affect our requirements to post collateral as financial assurance of performance under certain contractual arrangements, such as pipeline transportation contracts, crude oil and natural gas sales contracts, work commitments and certain abandonment obligations, and potentially subject us to additional bonding and other assurance requirements with respect to our Gulf of Mexico assets. A lowering of our credit rating may negatively affect the cost, terms, conditions and availability of future financing.. We face significant competition and many of our competitors have resources in excess of our available resources.. We operate in highly competitive areas of crude oil and natural gas exploration, development, acquisition and production. We face intense competition from:. • large multi-national, integrated oil and gas companies;. • state-controlled national oil companies;. • US independent oil and gas companies;. • US onshore midstream companies;. • service companies engaging in exploration and production activities; and. • private investing in oil and gas equity funds.. We face competition in a number of areas such as:. • seeking to acquire desirable producing properties or new leases for future exploration;. • acquiring or increasing access to gathering, processing and transportation services and capacity;. • marketing our crude oil, natural gas and NGL production;. • seeking to acquire the equipment and expertise necessary to operate and develop properties; and. • attracting and retaining employees with certain skills.. Many of our competitors have financial and other resources substantially in excess of those available to us. Such companies may be able to pay more for seismic information and lease rights on crude oil and natural gas properties and exploratory prospects and to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. This highly competitive environment could have an adverse impact on our business.. Estimates of crude oil, natural gas and NGL reserves are not precise.. Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs that cannot be measured in an exact manner, and there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating reserves quantities and their value, including factors that are beyond our control.. In accordance with the SEC's rules for oil and gas reserves reporting, our reserves estimates are based on 12-month average commodity prices; therefore, reserves quantities will change when actual prices increase or decrease. As estimated production, development and abandonment costs are based on year-end economic conditions, reserves quantities will also change when these costs increase or decrease.. Reserves estimates depend on a number of factors and assumptions that may vary considerably from actual results, including:. • historical production from the area compared with production from other areas;. • the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies, including the SEC;. • assumptions concerning future crude oil, natural gas, and NGL prices;. • anticipated development cycle time;. • future development costs;. • future operating and abandonment costs;. • impacts of cost recovery provisions in contracts with foreign governments;. • severance and excise taxes; and. • workover and remedial costs.. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of those reserves based on risk of recovery, and estimates of the future net cash flows expected from them prepared by different petroleum engineers, or by the same petroleum engineers but at different times, may vary substantially. Estimation of crude oil, natural gas and NGL reserves in emerging areas or areas with limited historical production is inherently more difficult, and we may have less experience in such areas. Accordingly, reserves estimates may be subject to positive or negative revisions, and actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to our reserves likely will vary, possibly materially, from estimates. Any such negative revisions could result in an asset impairment charge.. 47. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Additionally, some of our reserves estimates are calculated using volumetric analysis, which involves estimating the volume of a reservoir based on the net feet of pay of the structure and an estimation of the area covered by the structure. Reserves estimates using volumetric analysis are less reliable than estimates based on a lengthy production history.. In addition, realization or recognition of PUDs will depend on our development schedule and plans. A change in future development plans for PUDs could cause the discontinuation of the classification of these reserves as proved. See Items 1. and 2. Business and Properties  -  Proved Reserves Disclosures.. We operate in a litigious environment.. Some of the jurisdictions within which we operate have proven to be litigious environments. Oil and gas companies, such as us, can be involved in various legal proceedings, such as title, royalty, or contractual disputes, in the ordinary course of business. For example, in certain states, oil and gas companies are often the target of \"legacy lawsuits,\" by which a landowner claims that oil and gas operations, often performed many years ago and by another operator, caused pollution or contamination of a property. Various properties we have owned over the past decades potentially expose us to \"legacy lawsuit\" claims.  Similarly, neighboring landowners may allege that current operations cause contamination or create a nuisance.. Because we maintain a diversified portfolio of assets that includes both US and international projects, the complexity and types of legal procedures with which we may become involved may vary, and we could incur significant legal and support expenses in different jurisdictions. For instance, we historically have had to address certain fiscal, antitrust and other regulatory challenges in Israel, including a current class action lawsuit filed by petitioners alleging we and our partners in Tamar violated antitrust laws through the monopolistic pricing of natural gas to the citizens of Israel. Legal proceedings such as this could result in a substantial liability and/or negative publicity about us and adversely affect the price of our common stock. In addition, legal proceedings distract management and other personnel from their primary responsibilities. These proceedings are subject to the uncertainties inherent in any litigation. We will defend ourselves vigorously in all such matters. However, if we are not able to successfully defend ourselves, there could be a delay or even halt in our exploration, development or production activities or other business plans, resulting in a reduction in reserves, loss of production and reduced cash flows.. One of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of a publicly traded master limited partnership, Noble Midstream Partners, which may involve a greater exposure to legal liability than our historic business operations.. One of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of Noble Midstream Partners, a publicly traded master limited partnership. Our control of the general partner of Noble Midstream Partners may increase the possibility that we could be subject to claims of breach of fiduciary duties, including claims of conflicts of interest, related to Noble Midstream Partners. Any liability resulting from such claims could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We may be subject to risks in connection with acquisition and divestiture activities.. As part of our business strategy, we have made, and will likely continue to make, acquisitions of oil and gas properties and/or entities that own them. Furthermore, if we are unable to make attractive acquisitions, our future growth could be limited. Moreover, even if we do make acquisitions, they may not result in an increase in our cash flows from operations or otherwise result in the benefits anticipated due to various risks, including, but not limited to:. • incorrect estimates or assumptions about reserves, exploration potential or potential drilling locations;. • incorrect assumptions regarding future revenues, including future commodity prices and differentials, or regarding future development and operating costs;. • incorrect assumptions regarding potential synergies and the overall costs of equity or debt;. • difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired assets or business; and. • unknown and unforeseen liabilities or other issues related to any acquisition for which contractual protections prove inadequate, including environmental liabilities and title defects.. The acquisition of a property or business requires management to make complex judgments and assessments, and the accuracy of the assessments is inherently uncertain. In connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be consistent with industry practices. Our review will not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities.. We also maintain an ongoing portfolio management program to ensure our company is well-positioned with assets that offer growth at financially attractive investment options. Therefore, we may periodically divest certain material assets which may help to generate organizational and operational efficiencies as well as cash for use in our capital investment program or to repay outstanding debt.. We strive to obtain the most attractive prices for our assets; however, various factors can materially affect our ability to dispose of assets on terms acceptable to us. Such factors may include:. 48. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. • current commodity prices;. • laws and regulations impacting oil and gas operations in the areas where the assets are located;. • willingness of the purchaser to assume certain liabilities such as asset retirement obligations;. • our willingness to indemnify buyers for certain matters; and. • delays in closing.. Inability to achieve a desired price for the assets, or underestimation of amounts of retained liabilities or indemnification obligations, can result in a reduction of cash proceeds, a loss on sale due to an excess of the asset's net book value over proceeds, or liabilities which must be settled in the future at amounts that are higher than we anticipated.  In addition, although we may successfully divest oil and gas assets, we may retain certain related contracts. For example, although we sold our Marcellus Shale upstream properties in 2017, we retained significant obligations under firm transportation contracts. Our inability to fully commercialize these contracts and reduce the associated financial commitments could result in a decrease in cash flows from operations. In addition, we may be required to recognize losses in accordance with exit or disposal activities. See Item 7. Management's Discussion of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Liquidity and Capital Resources  -  Contractual Obligations.. An uneconomic or unsuccessful acquisition or divestiture effort may divert management's attention and our financial resources away from existing operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We are exposed to counterparty credit risk as a result of our receivables, hedging transactions and cash investments.. We are exposed to risk of financial loss from joint venture and other receivables. We are the operator on a majority of our joint venture development projects, including Leviathan. As operator of the joint ventures, we pay joint venture expenses and make cash calls on our nonoperating partners for their respective shares of joint venture costs. These projects are capital cost intensive and, in some cases, a nonoperating partner may experience a delay in obtaining financing for its share of the joint venture costs or have liquidity problems resulting in slow payment of joint venture costs that can result in potential delays in our development projects.. In addition, some of our joint venture partners are not as creditworthy as we are and may experience credit rating downgrades or liquidity problems that may hinder their ability to obtain financing. Counterparty liquidity problems could result in a delay in our receiving proceeds from reimbursement of joint venture costs. Nonperformance by a joint venture partner could result in significant financial losses.. Our hedging transactions expose us to risk of financial loss if a counterparty fails to perform under a derivative contract. During periods of falling commodity prices, our commodity derivative receivable positions increase, which increases our counterparty credit exposure. We also had approximately $675 million in cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2017 deposited with financial institutions, a majority of which was invested in money market funds and short-term deposits with major financial institutions. While we monitor the creditworthiness of the banks and financial institutions with which we invest and engage in hedging transactions, and maintain credit insurance, we are unable to predict sudden changes in solvency of the financial institutions and may be exposed to associated risks.. If one or more of our joint venture partners, hedge counterparties and financial institutions were to experience a sudden deterioration in liquidity, it could impair their ability to perform under the terms of our contracts. We are unable to predict sudden changes in creditworthiness or ability of these parties to perform and could incur significant financial losses.. Credit enhancements have been obtained from some parties in the form of parental guarantees, letters of credit or credit insurance; however, not all of our counterparty credit is protected through guarantees or credit support. In addition, we maintain credit insurance associated with specific purchasers. However, nonperformance by a hedge counterparty or financial institution could result in significant financial losses.. Commodity hedging transactions may limit our potential gains or fail to protect us from declines in commodity prices.. In order to reduce the impact of commodity price uncertainty and increase cash flow predictability relating to the marketing of our crude oil and natural gas, we enter into hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of our expected revenues. Our hedges, consisting of a series of derivative instrument contracts, are limited in duration, usually for periods of one to three years. While intended to reduce the effects of volatile crude oil and natural gas prices, such transactions may limit our potential gains if prices rise over the price established by the arrangements. Conversely, our hedging program may be inadequate to protect us from continuing and prolonged declines in the price of crude oil or natural gas.. Global commodity prices are volatile. Such volatility challenges our ability to forecast and, as a result, it may become more difficult to manage our hedging program. In trying to manage our exposure to commodity price risk, we may end up hedging too much or too little, depending upon how our crude oil or natural gas volumes and our production mix fluctuate in the future. Hedging transactions may also expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: our production is less than expected; there is a widening of price basis differentials between delivery points for our production and. 49. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. the delivery points assumed in the hedge arrangement; the counterparties to our futures contracts fail to perform under the contracts; or a sudden unexpected event materially impacts crude oil or natural gas prices.  See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  -  Note 8.  Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.. The insurance we carry is insufficient to cover all of the risks we face, which could result in significant financial exposure.. Exploration for and production of crude oil and natural gas can be hazardous, involving natural disasters or other catastrophic events such as hurricanes, earthquakes, blowouts, well cratering, fire and explosion, loss of well control, pipeline disruptions, mishandling of fluids and chemicals, and possible underground migration of hydrocarbons and chemicals, any of which can result in damage to or destruction of wells or formations or production facilities, injury to persons, loss of life, or damage to property and the environment. Exploration and production activities are also subject to risk from political developments such as terrorist acts, piracy, civil disturbances, war, and expropriation or nationalization of assets, or other interruptions, such as cyber security breaches, which can cause loss of or damage to our property.. Our insurance program and memberships in domestic and international dedicated oil spill and emergency response organizations may not minimize or fully protect us from losses resulting from damages to or the loss of physical assets or loss of human life, liability claims of third parties, and business interruption (loss of production) attributed to certain assets and including such occurrences as well blowouts and resulting oil spills. We do not have insurance protection against all the risks we face, because we choose not to insure certain risks, insurance is not available at a level that balances the cost of insurance and our desired rates of return, or actual losses may exceed coverage limits.. We expect the future availability and cost of insurance to be impacted by such events as hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunami and other natural disasters. Impacts could include tighter underwriting standards; limitations on scope and amount of coverage; and higher premiums, and will depend, in part, on future changes in laws and regulations regarding exploration and production activities in the Gulf of Mexico and other areas in which we operate, including possible increases in liability caps for claims of damages from oil spills. We will continue to monitor for any legislative or regulatory changes related to offshore exploration and production and its potential impact on the insurance market and our overall risk profile, and adjust our risk and insurance program to provide protection, at a level that we can afford considering the cost of insurance and our desired rates of return, against disruption to our operations and cash flows.. If an event, for example, a major offshore incident resulting in significant personal injury and/or environmental and physical damage, occurs that is not covered by insurance or not fully protected by insured limits, it could have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See Risk and Insurance Program, above.. Provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover of us.. Under our Certificate of Incorporation, our Board of Directors is authorized to issue shares of our common or preferred stock without approval of our shareholders. Issuance of these shares could make it more difficult to acquire us without the approval of our Board of Directors as more shares would have to be acquired to gain control. In addition, Delaware law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. These provisions may deter hostile takeover attempts that could result in an acquisition of us that would have been financially beneficial to our shareholders.. Item1B.   Unresolved Staff Comments. None."
