[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. You should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Each of these risk factors could affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as affect an investment in our shares.. Our business and results of operations have been materially hurt and our enterprise value has substantially declined  due to current depressed market conditions which are the result of the dramatic drop in the oil price and the oversupply of offshore drilling rigs.. Crude oil prices have declined from approximately $112 per barrel for Brent crude on June 30, 2014 to as low as approximately $30 per barrel in January 2016, before improving to approximately $65 per barrel on February 20, 2018. In addition, a large number of offshore drilling rigs were constructed and added to the global fleet in the last few years, and a substantial number of additional rigs, including rigs built on speculation, are available and could enter the market in 2018. Also, many in our industry extended the lives of older rigs rather than retiring these rigs. These factors have led to a significant oversupply of drilling rigs at the same time that our customers have greatly reduced their planned exploration and development spending in response to the depressed price of oil. These factors have affected market conditions and led to a material decline in the demand for our services, the dayrates we are paid by our customers and the level of utilization of our drilling rigs. These poor market conditions, in turn, have led to a material deterioration in our results of operations. We have already experienced a substantial decline in the price of our shares, which has declined from $27 on August 4, 2014 post Spin-off to $4 at February 20, 2018. While the offshore contract drilling industry is highly cyclical and has experienced periods of low demand and higher demand, there can be no assurance as to when or to what extent the current depressed market conditions, and our business, results of operations or enterprise value, will improve. Further, even if the price of oil and gas were to increase dramatically, we cannot assure you that there would be any increase in demand for our services.. Our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and gas industry. Adverse developments affecting the industry, including a decline in the price of oil or gas, reduced demand for oil and gas products and increased regulation of drilling and production, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Demand for drilling services depends on a variety of economic and political factors and the level of activity in offshore oil and gas exploration and development and production markets worldwide. As noted above, the price of oil and gas, and market expectations of potential changes in the price, significantly affect this level of activity, as well as dayrates which we can charge customers for our services. However, higher prices do not necessarily translate into increased drilling activity because our clients' expectations of future commodity prices typically drive demand for our rigs. The price of oil and gas and the level of activity in offshore oil and gas exploration and development are extremely volatile and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including:. • the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and gas;. • the ability of OPEC to set and maintain production levels and pricing;. • expectations regarding future energy prices;. • increased supply of oil and gas resulting from onshore hydraulic fracturing activity and shale development;. • worldwide production and demand for oil and gas, which are impacted by changes in the rate of economic growth in the global economy;. • potential acceleration in the development, and the price and availability, of alternative fuels;. • the level of production in non-OPEC countries;. • worldwide financial instability or recessions;. • regulatory restrictions or any moratorium on offshore drilling;. 10. • the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves either onshore or offshore;. • the rate of decline of existing and new oil and gas reserves;. • available pipeline and other oil and gas transportation capacity;. • oil refining capacity;. • the ability of oil and gas companies to raise capital;. • worldwide instability in the financial and credit sectors and a reduction in the availability of liquidity and credit;. • the relative cost of offshore oil and gas exploration versus onshore oil and gas production;. • advances in exploration, development and production technology either onshore or offshore;. • technical advances affecting energy consumption, including the displacement of hydrocarbons through increasing transportation fuel efficiencies;. • merger and divestiture activity among oil and gas producers;. • the availability of, and access to, suitable locations from which our customers can produce hydrocarbons;. • adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes, typhoons, winter storms and rough seas;. • tax laws, regulations and policies;. • laws and regulations related to environmental matters, including those addressing alternative energy sources and the risks of global climate change;. • the political environment of oil-producing regions, including uncertainty or instability resulting from civil disorder, an outbreak or escalation of armed hostilities or acts of war or terrorism; and. • the laws and regulations of governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and gas reserves or speculation regarding future laws or regulations.. Adverse developments affecting the industry as a result of one or more of these factors, including any further decline in the price of oil and gas from their current levels or the failure of the price of oil and gas to recover to a level that encourages our clients to expand their capital spending, a global recession, reduced demand for oil and gas products, increased supply due to the development of new onshore drilling and production technologies, and increased regulation of drilling and production, particularly if several developments were to occur in a short period of time, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The current downturn has had a material adverse effect on demand for our services since 2015 and is expected to continue to have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. The contract drilling industry is a highly competitive and cyclical business with intense price competition. If we are unable to compete successfully, our profitability may be materially reduced.. The offshore contract drilling industry is a highly competitive and cyclical business characterized by high capital and operating costs and evolving capability of newer rigs. Drilling contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. Price competition, rig availability, location and rig suitability and technical specifications are the primary factors in determining which contractor is awarded a job, although other factors are important, including experience of the workforce, efficiency, safety performance record, condition of equipment, operating integrity, reputation, industry standing and client relations. Our future success and profitability will partly depend upon our ability to keep pace with our customers' demands with respect to these factors. If current competitors, or new market entrants, implement new technical capabilities, services or standards that are more attractive to our customers or price their product offerings more competitively, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition to intense competition, our industry has historically been cyclical. The contract drilling industry is currently in a period characterized by low demand for drilling services and excess rig supply. Periods of low demand or excess rig supply intensify the competition in the industry and have resulted in, and are expected to continue to result in, many of our rigs being idle or earning substantially lower dayrates for long periods of time. We cannot provide you with any assurances as to when such period will end, or when there will be higher demand for contract drilling services or a reduction in the number of drilling rigs.. The over-supply of rigs is contributing to a reduction in dayrates and demand for our rigs, which reduction may continue for some time and, therefore, is expected to further adversely impact our revenues and profitability.. Prior to the current downturn, we experienced an extended period of high utilization and high dayrates, and industry participants materially increased the supply of drilling rigs by building new drilling rigs, including some that have not yet entered service. This increase in supply, combined with the decrease in demand for drilling rigs resulting from the substantial decline in the price of oil that began in late 2014, has resulted in an oversupply of drilling rigs, which has contributed to the decline in utilization and dayrates.. We are currently experiencing competition from newbuild rigs that have either already entered the market or are available to enter the market. The entry of these rigs into the market has resulted in lower dayrates for both newbuilds and existing rigs rolling off their current contracts. Lower utilization and dayrates have adversely affected our revenues and profitability and may continue to do so for some time in the future. In addition, our competitors may relocate rigs to geographic markets in which we operate, which could exacerbate excess rig supply and result in. 11. lower dayrates and utilization in those markets. To the extent that the drilling rigs currently under construction or on order do not have contracts upon their completion, there may be increased price competition as such vessels become operational, which could lead to a further reduction in dayrates and in utilization, and we may be required to idle additional drilling rigs. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected.. We may record impairment charges on property and equipment, including rigs and related capital spares.. We evaluate the impairment of property and equipment, which include rigs and related capital spares, whenever events or changes in circumstances (including a decision to cold stack, retire or sell rigs) indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. An impairment loss on our property and equipment may exist when the estimated undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition are less than its carrying amount. Any impairment loss recognized represents the excess of the asset's carrying value over the estimated fair value. As part of this analysis, we make assumptions and estimates regarding future market conditions. To the extent actual results do not meet our estimated assumptions, for a given rig or piece of equipment, we may take an impairment loss in the future. In addition, we may also take an impairment loss on capital spares and other capital equipment when we deem the value of those items has declined due to factors like obsolescence, deterioration or damage. For example, based upon our impairment analysis as of the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we decided that we would no longer market certain rigs. In connection with these decisions, we recorded impairment charges of $121.6 million and $285.0 million, respectively, on these rigs and certain capital spares during those periods. There can be no assurance that we will not have to take additional impairment charges in the future if current depressed market conditions persist.. We may not be able to renew or replace expiring contracts, and our customers may terminate or seek to renegotiate or repudiate our drilling contracts or may have financial difficulties which prevents them from meeting their obligations under our drilling contracts.. We had a number of customer contracts that expired in 2016 and 2017 and will expire in 2018. Generally speaking we were not able to renew or replace contracts that expired in 2016 and 2017 on as favorable terms as our previous contracts, if at all, and our ability to renew contracts that expire in 2018 or obtain new contracts and the terms of any such contracts will depend on market conditions and our customers' expectations and assumptions of future oil prices and other factors. During 2016 and 2017, a number of oil and gas companies, including some of our customers, publicly announced significant reductions in their planned exploration and development spending affecting the offshore market, and some of our customers may continue to do so in 2018. These reductions in spending by our customers could further reduce the demand for contract drilling services and as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected.. Our customers may generally terminate our term drilling contracts if a drilling rig is destroyed or lost or if we have to suspend drilling operations for a specified period of time as a result of a breakdown of major equipment or, in some cases, due to other events beyond the control of either party. In the case of nonperformance and under certain other conditions, our drilling contracts generally allow our customers to terminate without any payment to us. The terms of some of our drilling contracts permit the customer to terminate the contract after a specified notice period by tendering contractually specified termination amounts and, in some cases, without any payment. These termination payments, if any, may not fully compensate us for the loss of a contract. The early termination of a contract may result in a rig being idle for an extended period of time and a reduction in our contract backlog and associated revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, during periods of depressed market conditions, such as the one we are currently experiencing, we are subject to an increased risk of our customers seeking to renegotiate or repudiate their contracts. The ability of our customers to perform their obligations under drilling contracts with us may also be adversely affected by the financial condition of the customer, restricted credit markets, economic downturns and industry downturns. We may elect to renegotiate the rates we receive under our drilling contracts downward if we determine that to be a reasonable business solution. If our customers cancel or are unable to perform their obligations under their drilling contracts, including their payment obligations, and we are unable to secure new contracts on a timely basis on substantially similar terms or if we elect to renegotiate our drilling contracts and accept terms that are less favorable to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our current backlog of contract drilling revenue may not be ultimately realized.. Generally, contract backlog only includes future revenues under firm commitments; however, from time to time, we may report anticipated commitments under letters of intent or award for which definitive agreements have not yet been, but are expected to be, executed. We may not be able to perform under these contracts as a result of operational or other breaches or due to events beyond our control, and we may not be able to ultimately execute a definitive agreement in cases where one does not currently exist. Moreover, we can provide no assurance that our customers will be able to or willing to fulfill their contractual commitments to us or that they will not seek to renegotiate or repudiate their contracts, especially during the current industry downturn. In estimating backlog, we make certain assumptions about applicable dayrates for our longer-term contracts with dayrate adjustment mechanisms (like certain of our contracts with Shell). While we believe these assumptions are appropriate, we cannot assure you that actual results will mirror these assumptions. Our inability to perform under our contractual obligations or to execute definitive. 12. agreements, our customers' inability or unwillingness  to fulfill their contractual commitments to us, including as a result of contract repudiations or our decision to accept less favorable terms on our drilling contracts, or the failure of actual results to reflect the assumptions we use to estimate backlog for certain contracts, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are substantially dependent on several of our customers, including Shell, Statoil and Saudi Aramco, and the loss of any of these customers would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Any concentration of customers increases the risks associated with any possible termination or nonperformance of drilling contracts, failure to renew contracts or award new contracts or reduction of their drilling programs. Shell, Statoil and Saudi Aramco accounted for approximately 45 percent, 13 percent and 11 percent, respectively, of our consolidated operating revenues and approximately 58 percent, 14 percent and 19 percent, respectively, of our backlog for the year ended December 31, 2017. This concentration of customers increases the risks associated with any possible termination or nonperformance of contracts, in addition to our exposure to credit risk. If any of these customers were to terminate or fail to perform their obligations under their contracts and we were not able to find other customers for the affected drilling units promptly, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Paragon Offshore has formed and funded a litigation trust as part of its bankruptcy proceedings and the litigation trust has filed claims against us and certain of our officers and directors. In addition, Paragon Offshore has rejected in the bankruptcy proceedings certain separation agreements entered into with us, and as a result, we will be responsible for those liabilities for which we would have otherwise sought indemnification under the separation agreements.. In August 2014, we completed the Spin-off of a majority of our standard specification offshore drilling business through a pro rata distribution of all of the ordinary shares of our wholly-owned subsidiary, Paragon Offshore, to the holders of our ordinary shares. In April 2017, Paragon Offshore filed a bankruptcy plan (the \"Plan\"). The Plan, which was modified in May 2017, provided for the creation of a litigation trust to which Paragon Offshore transferred its claims against us, including claims of alleged fraudulent conveyance in connection with the Spin-off and the funding of the trust by Paragon Offshore with $10.0 million. The litigation trust is entitled to pursue those claims against us. In June 2017, the revised Plan was approved by the bankruptcy court and Paragon Offshore emerged from bankruptcy on July 18, 2017.. On December 15, 2017, the litigation trust filed claims relating to the Spin-off against us and certain of our current and former officers and directors in the Delaware bankruptcy court that heard Paragon Offshore's bankruptcy. The complaint alleges claims of alleged actual and constructive fraudulent conveyance, unjust enrichment and recharacterization of intercompany notes as equity claims against Noble and claims of breach of fiduciary duty and aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty against the officer and director defendants. If any of the litigation trust's claims are successful, or if we elect to settle any claims, any damages or other amounts we would be required to or agree to pay could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The litigation is in the very early stages, no schedule has been established, and we are not able to predict when, or if, the matters will go to trial or otherwise be concluded. We may be required to establish reserves on our financial statements in advance of the conclusion of the litigation. Such reserves may be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition as presented in such financial statements.. We entered into certain separation agreements with Paragon Offshore at the time of the Spin-off (including the master separation agreement, tax sharing agreement, transition services agreement and transition services agreement relating to our operations offshore Brazil) under which we agreed to indemnify Paragon Offshore for certain liabilities, and Paragon Offshore agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. As part of the Plan, Paragon Offshore rejected all of these contracts. Accordingly, we are no longer entitled to seek indemnity from Paragon Offshore under such agreements, and we would be responsible for those liabilities for which we would have otherwise sought indemnification. Such liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business involves numerous operating hazards.. Our operations are subject to many hazards inherent in the drilling business, including:. • well blowouts;. • fires;. • collisions or groundings of offshore equipment and helicopter accidents;. • punch-throughs;. • mechanical or technological failures;. • failure of our employees or third-party contractors to comply with our internal environmental, health and safety guidelines;. • pipe or cement failures and casing collapses, which could release oil, gas or drilling fluids;. • geological formations with abnormal pressures;. • loop currents or eddies;. 13. • failure of critical equipment;. • toxic gas emanating from the well;. • spillage handling and disposing of materials; and. • adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes, typhoons, tsunamis, winter storms and rough seas.. These hazards could cause personal injury or loss of life, suspend drilling operations, result in regulatory investigation or penalties, seriously damage or destroy property and equipment, result in claims by employees, customers or third parties, cause environmental damage and cause substantial damage to oil and gas producing formations or facilities. Operations also may be suspended because of machinery breakdowns, abnormal drilling conditions, and failure of subcontractors to perform or supply goods or services or personnel shortages. The occurrence of any of the hazards we face could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may experience downgrades in our credit ratings, which could increase our borrowing costs and potentially reduce our access to additional liquidity.. As a result of the decline in our credit ratings below investment grade in 2016, access to the commercial paper market became closed to us and we terminated our commercial paper program. So long as such access is closed, any future borrowings would have to be made under our Credit Facilities (as defined herein). Each of our Credit Facilities has a provision which changes the applicable interest rate based upon our credit ratings, and these reduced credit ratings have increased our potential interest expense for borrowings under our 2015 Credit Facility (as defined herein).. During 2016 and 2017, we experienced debt rating downgrades by Moody's Investors Service and S&P Global Ratings, which reduced our debt ratings significantly below investment grade. As a result of these downgrades, we experienced interest rate increases during 2016 and 2017 on our Senior Notes due 2018 (the \"2018 Notes\"), our Senior Notes due 2025 (the \"2025 Notes\") and our Senior Notes due 2045 (the \"2045 Notes\"), all of which are subject to provisions that vary the applicable interest rates based on our debt rating. On October 18, 2017, S&P Global Ratings further reduced our debt rating, which will increase the interest rates on the 2025 Notes and the 2045 Notes to 7.95% and 8.95%, respectively, beginning in April 2018. Once the new interest rates take effect in April 2018, these senior notes will have reached the contractually-defined maximum interest rate set for each rating agency and no further interest rate increase will occur.. Our other outstanding senior notes, including the Senior Notes due 2024 (the \"2024 Notes\") issued in December 2016, and the Senior Notes due 2026 (the \"2026 Notes\") issued in January 2018, do not contain provisions varying applicable interest rates based upon our credit ratings.. We are exposed to risks relating to operations in international locations.. We operate in various regions throughout the world that may expose us to political and other uncertainties, including risks of:. • seizure, nationalization or expropriation of property or equipment;. • monetary policies, government credit rating downgrades and potential defaults, and foreign currency fluctuations and devaluations;. • limitations on the ability to repatriate income or capital;. • complications associated with repairing and replacing equipment in remote locations;. • repudiation, nullification, modification or renegotiation of contracts;. • limitations on insurance coverage, such as war risk coverage, in certain areas;. • import-export quotas, wage and price controls, imposition of trade barriers and other forms of government regulation and economic conditions that are beyond our control;. • delays in implementing private commercial arrangements as a result of government oversight;. • financial or operational difficulties in complying with foreign bureaucratic actions;. • changing taxation rules or policies;. • other forms of government regulation and economic conditions that are beyond our control and that create operational uncertainty;. • governmental corruption;. • piracy; and. • terrorist acts, war, revolution and civil disturbances.. Further, we operate in certain less-developed countries with legal systems that are not as mature or predictable as those in more developed countries, which can lead to greater uncertainty in legal matters and proceedings. Examples of challenges of operating in these countries include:. • procedural requirements for temporary import permits, which may be difficult to obtain;. • the effect of certain temporary import permit regimes, where the duration of the permit does not coincide with the general term of the drilling contract; and. • ongoing claims in Brazil related to withholding taxes payable on our service contracts.. 14. Our ability to do business in a number of jurisdictions is subject to maintaining required licenses and permits and complying with applicable laws and regulations. Changes in, compliance with, or our failure to comply with the laws and regulations of the countries where we operate may negatively impact our operations in those countries and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. In addition, OPEC initiatives, as well as other governmental actions, may continue to cause oil price volatility. In some areas of the world, this governmental activity has adversely affected the amount of exploration and development work done by major oil companies, which may continue. In addition, some governments favor or effectively require the awarding of drilling contracts to local contractors, require use of a local agent, require partial local ownership or require foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. These practices may adversely affect our ability to compete and our results of operations.. Operating and maintenance costs of our rigs may be significant and may not correspond to revenue earned.. Our operating expenses and maintenance costs depend on a variety of factors including: crew costs, costs of provisions, equipment, insurance, maintenance and repairs, and shipyard costs, many of which are beyond our control. Our total operating costs are generally related to the number of drilling rigs in operation and the cost level in each country or region where such drilling rigs are located. Equipment maintenance costs fluctuate depending upon the type of activity that the drilling rig is performing and the age and condition of the equipment. Operating and maintenance costs will not necessarily fluctuate in proportion to changes in operating revenues. While operating revenues may fluctuate as a function of changes in dayrate, costs for operating a rig may not be proportional to the dayrate received and may vary based on a variety of factors, including the scope and length of required rig preparations and the duration of the contractual period over which such expenditures are amortized. Any investments in our rigs may not result in an increased dayrate for or income from such rigs. A disproportionate amount of operating and maintenance costs in comparison to dayrates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Drilling contracts with national oil companies may expose us to greater risks than we normally assume in drilling contracts with non-governmental clients.. Contracts with national oil companies are often non-negotiable and may expose us to greater commercial, political and operational risks than we assume in other contracts, such as exposure to materially greater environmental liability and other claims for damages (including consequential damages) and personal injury related to our operations, or the risk that the contract may be terminated by our client without cause on short-term notice, contractually or by governmental action, under certain conditions that may not provide us an early termination payment, collection risks and political risks. In addition, our ability to resolve disputes or enforce contractual provisions may be negatively impacted with these contracts. While we believe that the financial, commercial and risk allocation terms of these contracts and our operating safeguards mitigate these risks, we can provide no assurance that the increased risk exposure will not have an adverse impact on our future operations or that we will not increase the number of rigs contracted to national oil companies with commensurate additional contractual risks.. Governmental laws and regulations may add to our costs, result in delays, or limit our drilling activity.. Our business is affected by public policy and laws and regulations relating to the energy industry in the geographic areas where we operate.. The drilling industry is dependent on demand for services from the oil and gas exploration and production industry, and accordingly, we are directly affected by the adoption of laws and regulations that for economic, environmental or other policy reasons curtail exploration and development drilling for oil and gas. We may be required to make significant capital expenditures to comply with governmental laws and regulations. Governments in some foreign countries are increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of concessions, the exploration for oil and gas, and other aspects of the oil and gas industries. There is increasing attention in the United States and worldwide concerning the issue of climate change and the effect of greenhouse gases, or GHGs. This increased attention may result in new environmental laws or regulations that may unfavorably impact us, our suppliers and our customers.. The modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations that result in the curtailment of exploratory or developmental drilling for oil and gas could materially and adversely affect our operations by limiting drilling opportunities increasing our cost of doing business, discouraging our customers from drilling for hydrocarbons, disrupting revenue through permitting or similar delays, or subjecting us to liability.. As disclosed in Part II, Item 8, \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 14 -  Commitments and Contingencies,\" in November 2012, the U.S. Coast Guard in Alaska conducted an inspection and investigation of the Noble Discoverer and the Kulluk, a rig we were providing contract labor services for, and referred the matters to the DOJ for further investigation. In December 2014, a subsidiary reached a settlement with the DOJ regarding its investigation of the Noble Discoverer and the Kulluk. Under the terms of the plea agreement, the subsidiary pled guilty to violations relating to maintaining proper oil record books for the Noble Discoverer and Kulluk, maintaining proper ballast records for the Noble Discoverer and notification of hazardous conditions with respect to the Noble Discoverer. The subsidiary paid $8.2 million in fines and $4 million in community service payments and implemented a comprehensive environmental compliance plan. Under the plea agreement, we were also placed on probation for four years, with the right to petition the court for early dismissal of probation after three years. We were granted our motion. 15. to terminate the plea agreement effective March 1, 2018. If, during the remaining term of probation, the subsidiary fails to adhere to the terms of the plea agreement, the DOJ may withdraw from the plea agreement and would be free to prosecute the subsidiary on all charges arising out of its investigation, including any charges dismissed pursuant to the terms of the plea agreement, as well as potentially other charges.. Any violation of anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the United Kingdom Bribery Act, or similar laws and regulations could result in significant expenses, divert management attention, and otherwise have a negative impact on us.. We operate in countries known to have a reputation for corruption. We are subject to the risk that we, our affiliated entities or their respective officers, directors, employees and agents may take action determined to be in violation of such anti-corruption laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (the \"FCPA\"), the United Kingdom Bribery Act 2010 (the \"U.K. Bribery Act\") and similar laws in other countries. Any violation of the FCPA, U.K. Bribery Act or other applicable anti-corruption laws could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties and curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions and might adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation and ability to do business. Further, detecting, investigating and resolving actual or alleged violations is expensive and can consume significant time and attention of our senior management.. Changes in, compliance with, or our failure to comply with the certain laws and regulations may negatively impact our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our operations are subject to various laws and regulations in countries in which we operate, including laws and regulations relating to:. • the importing, exporting, equipping and operation of drilling rigs;. • currency exchange controls;. • oil and gas exploration and development;. • taxation of offshore earnings and earnings of expatriate personnel; and. • use and compensation of local employees and suppliers by foreign contractors.. Public and regulatory scrutiny of the energy industry has resulted in increased regulations being either proposed or implemented. In addition, existing regulations might be revised or reinterpreted, new laws, regulations and permitting requirements might be adopted or become applicable to us, our rigs, our customers, our vendors or our service providers, and future changes in laws and regulations could significantly increase our costs and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may be required to post additional surety bonds to secure performance, tax, customs and other obligations relating to our rigs in jurisdictions where bonding requirements are already in effect and in other jurisdictions where we may operate in the future. These requirements would increase the cost of operating in these countries, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In response to the Macondo well blowout incident in April 2010, the U.S. Department of Interior, through the BOEM and BSEE, began an overhaul of the offshore oil and natural gas regulatory process that significantly impacted oil and gas development regulated by the United States. From time to time, new rules, regulations and requirements have been proposed and implemented by BOEM, BSEE or the United States Congress that could materially limit or prohibit, and increase the cost of, offshore drilling. For example, in July 2016, BOEM and BSEE finalized a rule revising and adding requirements for drilling on the U.S. Arctic Outer Continental Shelf. Similarly, in April 2016, BSEE announced a final blowout preventer systems and well control rule. However, in December 2017, BSEE published a proposed rule that would revise a number of the requirements in the blowout preventer systems and well control rule. BOEM also released a new Notice to Lessees and Operators in the Outer Continental Shelf (\"NTL\") in September 2016 that updates offshore bonding requirements. This update eliminates waivers of supplemental bonding and prohibits a company from relying on the financial strength of co-lessees unless co-lessees agree to allocate BOEM-determined self-insurance to the lease. In January 2017, BOEM extended the implementation timeline for the NTL by six months. In May 2017, the Secretary of the Interior directed BOEM to review the NTL and provide a report describing the results of the review and options for revising or rescinding the NTL. BOEM again extended the implementation timeline for the NTL in June 2017. If the NTL goes into effect, these new bonding requirements may increase our customers' operating costs and impact our customers' ability to obtain leases, thereby, reducing demand for our services. We are also subject to increasing regulatory requirements and scrutiny in the North Sea jurisdictions and other countries. These new rules, regulations and requirements, including the adoption of new safety requirements and policies relating to the approval of drilling permits, restrictions on oil and gas development and production activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and elsewhere, implementation of safety and environmental management systems, mandatory third party compliance audits, and the promulgation of numerous Notices to Lessees or similar new regulatory requirements outside of the United States, have impacted and may continue to impact our operations by causing increased costs, delays and operational restrictions. In addition to these rules, regulations and requirements, the U.S. federal government is considering new legislation that could impose additional equipment and safety requirements on operators and drilling contractors in the United States, as well as regulations relating to the protection of the environment. If the new regulations, policies, operating procedures and possibility of increased legal liability resulting from the adoption or amendment of rules and regulations applicable to our operations in the United States or other jurisdictions are viewed by our current or future customers as a significant. 16. impairment to expected profitability on projects, then they could discontinue or curtail their offshore operations in the impacted region, thereby adversely affecting our operations by limiting drilling opportunities or imposing materially increased costs.. Adverse effects may continue as a result of the uncertainty of ongoing inquiries, investigations and court proceedings, or additional inquiries and proceedings by federal or state regulatory agencies or private plaintiffs. In addition, we cannot predict the outcome of any of these inquiries or whether these inquiries will lead to additional legal proceedings against us, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other regulatory action, including legislation or increased permitting requirements. Legal proceedings or other matters against us, including environmental matters, suits, regulatory appeals, challenges to our permits by citizen groups and similar matters, might result in adverse decisions against us. The result of such adverse decisions, both individually or in the aggregate, could be material and may not be covered fully or at all by insurance.. Operational interruptions or maintenance or repair work may cause our customers to suspend or reduce payment of dayrates until operation of the respective drilling rig is resumed, which may lead to loss of revenue or termination or renegotiation of the drilling contract.. If our drilling rigs are idle for reasons that are not related to the ability of the rig to operate, our customers are entitled to pay a waiting, or standby, rate lower than the full operational rate. In addition, if our drilling rigs are taken out of service for maintenance and repair for a period of time exceeding the scheduled maintenance periods set forth in our drilling contracts, we will not be entitled to payment of dayrates until the rig is able to work. Several factors could cause operational interruptions, including:. • breakdowns of equipment and other unforeseen engineering problems;. • work stoppages, including labor strikes;. • shortages of material and skilled labor;. • delays in repairs by suppliers;. • surveys by government and maritime authorities;. • periodic classification surveys;. • inability to obtain permits;. • severe weather, strong ocean currents or harsh operating conditions; and. • force majeure events.. If the interruption of operations were to exceed a determined period due to an event of force majeure, our customers have the right to pay a rate that is significantly lower than the waiting rate for a period of time, and, thereafter, may terminate the drilling contracts related to the subject rig. Suspension of drilling contract payments, prolonged payment of reduced rates or termination of any drilling contract as a result of an interruption of operations as described herein could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As a result of our significant cash flow needs, we may be required to incur additional indebtedness, and in the event of lost market access, may have to delay or cancel discretionary capital expenditures.. Our cash flow needs, both in the short-term and long-term, may include the following:. • normal recurring operating expenses;. • planned and discretionary capital expenditures; and. • repayment of debt and interest.. In the future, we may require funding for capital expenditures that is beyond the amount available to us from cash generated by our operations, cash on hand and borrowings under our existing Credit Facilities. We may raise such additional capital in a number of ways, including accessing capital markets, obtaining additional lines of credit or disposing of assets. However, we can provide no assurance that any of these options will be available to us on terms acceptable to us or at all.. Our debt instruments could limit our operations and our debt level may limit our flexibility to obtain financing and pursue business opportunities. Our ability to obtain financing or to access the capital markets may be limited by our financial condition and our credit ratings at the time of any such financing and the covenants in our existing debt agreements, as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, a depressed oil price, general economic conditions and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Even if we are successful in obtaining additional capital through debt financings, incurring additional indebtedness may significantly increase our interest expense and may reduce our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to fund working capital needs, because we will require additional funds to service our outstanding indebtedness.. We may delay or cancel discretionary capital expenditures, which could have certain adverse consequences, including delaying upgrades or equipment purchases that could make the affected rigs less competitive, adversely affect customer relationships and negatively impact our ability to contract such rigs.. 17. We may have difficulty obtaining or maintaining insurance in the future and our insurance coverage and contractual indemnity rights may not protect us against all the risks and hazards we face.. We do not procure insurance coverage for all of the potential risks and hazards we may face. Furthermore, no assurance can be given that we will be able to obtain insurance against all of the risks and hazards we face or that we will be able to obtain or maintain adequate insurance at rates and with deductibles or retention amounts that we consider commercially reasonable.. Our insurance carriers may interpret our insurance policies such that they do not cover losses for which we make claims. Our insurance policies may also have exclusions of coverage for some losses. Uninsured exposures may include expatriate activities prohibited by U.S. laws, radiation hazards, certain loss or damage to property onboard our rigs and losses relating to shore-based terrorist acts or strikes. Furthermore, the damage sustained to offshore oil and gas assets in the United States as a result of hurricanes has negatively impacted certain aspects of the energy insurance market, resulting in more restrictive and expensive coverage for U.S. named windstorm perils due to the price or lack of availability of coverage. Accordingly, we have in the past self-insured the rigs in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico for named windstorm perils. We currently have U.S. windstorm coverage for most of our U.S. fleet subject to limit, but will continue to monitor the insurance market conditions in the future and may decide not to, or be unable to, purchase named windstorm coverage for some or all of the rigs operating in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico.. Under our drilling contracts, liability with respect to personnel and property is customarily assigned on a \"knock-for-knock\" basis, which means that we and our customers assume liability for our respective personnel and property, irrespective of the fault or negligence of the party indemnified. Although our drilling contracts generally provide for indemnification from our customers for certain liabilities, including liabilities resulting from pollution or contamination originating below the surface of the water, enforcement of these contractual rights to indemnity may be limited by public policy and other considerations and, in any event, may not adequately cover our losses from such incidents. There can also be no assurance that those parties with contractual obligations to indemnify us will necessarily be in a financial position to do so. During depressed market periods such as the one in which we currently operate, the contractual indemnity provisions we are able to negotiate in our drilling contracts may require us to assume more risk than we would during normal market periods.. Although we maintain insurance in the geographic areas in which we operate, pollution, reservoir damage and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Our insurance policies may not adequately cover our losses or may have exclusions of coverage for some losses. We do not have insurance coverage or rights to indemnity for all risks, including loss of hire insurance on most of the rigs in our fleet. Uninsured exposures may include expatriate activities prohibited by U.S. laws and regulations, radiation hazards, cyber risks, certain loss or damage to property onboard our rigs and losses relating to shore-based terrorist acts or strikes. If a significant accident or other event occurs and is not fully covered by insurance or contractual indemnity, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our information technology systems and those of our service providers are subject to cybersecurity risks and threats.. We depend on information technology systems that we manage, and others that are managed by our third-party service and equipment providers, to conduct our day-to-day operations, including critical systems on our drilling units, and these systems are subject to risks associated with cyber incidents or attacks. It has been reported that unknown entities or groups have mounted cyber-attacks on businesses and other organizations solely to disable or disrupt computer systems, disrupt operations and, in some cases, steal data. Due to the nature of cyber-attacks, breaches to our service or equipment providers' systems could go unnoticed for a prolonged period of time. These cybersecurity risks could disrupt our operations and result in downtime, loss of revenue, or the loss, theft, corruption or unauthorized release of critical data of us or those with whom we do business as well as result in higher costs to correct and remedy the effects of such incidents. If our or our service or equipment providers' systems for protecting against cyber incidents or attacks prove to be insufficient and an incident were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Currently, we do not carry insurance for losses related to cybersecurity attacks, and may elect to not obtain such insurance in the future.. A loss of a major tax dispute or a successful tax challenge to our operating structure, intercompany pricing policies or the taxable presence of our subsidiaries in certain countries could result in a higher tax rate on our worldwide earnings, which could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Income tax returns that we file will be subject to review and examination. We will not recognize the benefit of income tax positions we believe are more likely than not to be disallowed upon challenge by a tax authority. If any tax authority successfully challenges our operational structure, intercompany pricing policies or the taxable presence of our subsidiaries in certain countries, if the terms of certain income tax treaties are interpreted in a manner that is adverse to our structure, or if we lose a material tax dispute in any country, our effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings could increase substantially and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. Our consolidated effective income tax rate may vary substantially from one reporting period to another.. We cannot provide any assurances as to what our consolidated effective income tax rate will be because of, among other matters, uncertainty regarding the nature and extent of our business activities in any particular jurisdiction in the future and the tax laws of such jurisdictions, as well. 18. as potential changes in UK, U.S. and other foreign tax laws, regulations or treaties or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, changes in the administrative practices and precedents of tax authorities or any reclassification or other matter (such as changes in applicable accounting rules) that increases the amounts we have provided for income taxes or deferred tax assets and liabilities in our consolidated financial statements. In addition, as a result of frequent changes in the taxing jurisdictions in which our drilling rigs are operated and/or owned, changes in the overall level of our income and changes in tax laws, our consolidated effective income tax rate may vary substantially from one reporting period to another. Income tax rates imposed in the tax jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries conduct operations vary, as does the tax base to which the rates are applied. In some cases, tax rates may be applicable to gross revenues, statutory or negotiated deemed profits or other bases utilized under local tax laws, rather than to net income. Our drilling rigs frequently move from one taxing jurisdiction to another to perform contract drilling services. In some instances, the movement of drilling rigs among taxing jurisdictions will involve the transfer of ownership of the drilling rigs among our subsidiaries. If we are unable to mitigate the negative consequences of any change in law, audit, business activity or other matter, this could cause our consolidated effective income tax rate to increase and cause a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results and/or cash flows.. Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and of human health and safety, and compliance with these laws and regulations could impose significant costs and liabilities that exceed our current expectations.. Substantial costs, liabilities, delays and other significant issues could arise from environmental, health and safety laws and regulations covering our operations, and we may incur substantial costs and liabilities in maintaining compliance with such laws and regulations. Our operations are subject to extensive international conventions and treaties, and national or federal, state and local laws and regulations, governing environmental protection, including with respect to the discharge of materials into the environment and the security of chemical and industrial facilities. These laws govern a wide range of environmental issues, including:. • the release of oil, drilling fluids, natural gas or other materials into the environment;. • air emissions from our drilling rigs or our facilities;. • handling, cleanup and remediation of solid and hazardous wastes at our drilling rigs or our facilities or at locations to which we have sent wastes for disposal;. • restrictions on chemicals and other hazardous substances; and. • wildlife protection, including regulations that ensure our activities do not jeopardize endangered or threatened animals, fish and plant species, nor destroy or modify the critical habitat of such species.. Various governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly actions. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations and permits, or the release of oil or other materials into the environment, may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, the imposition of stricter conditions on or revocation of permits, the issuance of moratoria or injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations, delays in granting permits and cancellation of leases, or could affect our relationship with certain consumers.. There is an inherent risk of the incurrence of environmental costs and liabilities in our business, some of which may be material, due to the handling of our customers' hydrocarbon products as they are gathered, transported, processed and stored, air emissions related to our operations, historical industry operations, and water and waste disposal practices. For example, we, as an operator of mobile offshore drilling units in navigable U.S. waters and certain offshore areas, including the U.S. Outer Continental Shelf, are liable for damages and for the cost of removing oil spills for which we may be held responsible, subject to certain limitations. Our operations may involve the use or handling of materials that are classified as environmentally hazardous. Environmental laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by others or for acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time they were performed. Joint, several or strict liability may be incurred without regard to fault under certain environmental laws and regulations for the remediation of contaminated areas and in connection with past, present or future spills or releases of natural gas, oil and wastes on, under, or from past, present or future facilities. Private parties may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage arising from our operations. In addition, increasingly strict laws, regulations and enforcement policies could materially increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. Our insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs or may not provide sufficient coverage if an environmental claim is made against us.. Our business may be adversely affected by increased costs due to stricter pollution control equipment requirements or liabilities resulting from non-compliance with required operating or other regulatory permits. Also, we might not be able to obtain or maintain from time to time all required environmental regulatory approvals for our operations. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approvals, or if we fail to obtain and comply with them, the operation or construction of our facilities could be prevented or become subject to additional costs. In addition, the steps we could be required to take to bring certain facilities into regulatory compliance could be prohibitively expensive, and we might be required to shut down, divest or alter the operation of those facilities, which might cause us to incur losses.. We make assumptions and develop expectations about possible expenditures related to environmental conditions based on current laws and regulations and current interpretations of those laws and regulations. If the interpretation of laws or regulations, or the laws and regulations. 19. themselves, change, our assumptions may change, and new capital costs may be incurred to comply with such changes. In addition, new environmental laws and regulations might adversely affect our operations, as well as waste management and air emissions. For instance, governmental agencies could impose additional safety requirements, which could affect our profitability. Further, new environmental laws and regulations might adversely affect our customers, which in turn could affect our profitability.. Finally, although some of our drilling rigs will be separately owned by our subsidiaries, under certain circumstances a parent company and all of the unit-owning affiliates in a group under common control engaged in a joint venture could be held liable for damages or debts owed by one of the affiliates, including liabilities for oil spills under environmental laws. Therefore, it is possible that we could be subject to liability upon a judgment against us or any one of our subsidiaries.. Reactivation, refurbishment, conversion or upgrades of rigs are subject to risks, including delays and cost overruns, which could have an adverse impact on our available cash resources and results of operations.. We will continue to make upgrades, refurbishment and repair expenditures to our fleet from time to time, some of which may be unplanned. In addition, we may reactivate rigs that have been cold or warm stacked. Our customers may also require certain shipyard reliability upgrade projects for our rigs. These projects and other efforts of this type are subject to risks of cost overruns or delays inherent in any large construction project as a result of numerous factors, including the following:. • shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor;. • work stoppages and labor disputes;. • unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment;. • local customs strikes or related work slowdowns that could delay importation of equipment or materials;. • weather interferences;. • difficulties in obtaining necessary permits or approvals or in meeting permit or approval conditions;. • design and engineering problems;. • inadequate regulatory support infrastructure in the local jurisdiction;. • latent damages or deterioration to hull, equipment and machinery in excess of engineering estimates and assumptions;. • unforeseen increases in the cost of equipment, labor and raw materials, particularly steel;. • unanticipated actual or purported change orders;. • client acceptance delays;. • disputes with shipyards and suppliers;. • delays in, or inability to obtain, access to funding;. • shipyard availability, failures and difficulties, including as a result of financial problems of shipyards or their subcontractors; and. • failure or delay of third-party equipment vendors or service providers.. The failure to complete a rig reactivation, repair, upgrade, refurbishment or new construction on time, or at all, or the inability to complete a rig conversion or new construction in accordance with its design specifications, may result in loss of revenues, penalties, or delay, renegotiation or cancellation of a drilling contract or the recognition of an asset impairment. Additionally, capital expenditures for rig reactivation, repair, upgrade, refurbishment and construction projects could materially exceed our planned capital expenditures. Moreover, when our rigs are undergoing upgrade, refurbishment and repair, they may not earn a dayrate during the period they are out of service. If we experience substantial delays and cost overruns in our shipyard projects, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently have no new rigs under construction.. Acts of terrorism, piracy and political and social unrest could affect the markets for drilling services, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Acts of terrorism and social unrest, brought about by world political events or otherwise, have caused instability in the world's financial and insurance markets in the past and may occur in the future. Such acts could be directed against companies such as ours. In addition, acts of terrorism, piracy and social unrest could lead to increased volatility in prices for crude oil and natural gas and could affect the markets for drilling services. Insurance premiums could increase and coverage may be unavailable in the future. Government regulations may effectively preclude us from engaging in business activities in certain countries. These regulations could be amended to cover countries where we currently operate or where we may wish to operate in the future.. Our drilling contracts do not generally provide indemnification against loss of capital assets or loss of revenues resulting from acts of terrorism, piracy or political or social unrest. We have limited insurance for our assets providing coverage for physical damage losses resulting from risks, such as terrorist acts, piracy, vandalism, sabotage, civil unrest, expropriation and acts of war, and we do not carry insurance for loss of revenues resulting from such risks.. 20. Failure to attract and retain skilled personnel or an increase in personnel costs could adversely affect our operations.. We require skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our drilling units. In the past, during periods of high demand for drilling services and increasing worldwide industry fleet size, shortages of qualified personnel have occurred. During periods of low demand, such as the one we are currently experiencing, there are layoffs of qualified personnel, who often find work with competitors or leave the industry.  As a result, once market conditions improve, we may face shortages of qualified personnel, which would impair our ability to attract qualified personnel for our new or existing drilling units, impair the timeliness and quality of our work and create upward pressure on personnel costs, any of which could adversely affect our operations.. Supplier capacity constraints or shortages in parts or equipment, supplier production disruptions, supplier quality and sourcing issues or price increases could increase our operating costs, decrease our revenues and adversely impact our operations.. Our reliance on third-party suppliers, manufacturers and service providers to secure equipment used in our drilling operations exposes us to volatility in the quality, price and availability of such items. Certain specialized parts and equipment we use in our operations may be available only from a single or small number of suppliers. A disruption in the deliveries from such third-party suppliers, capacity constraints, production disruptions, price increases, defects or quality-control issues, recalls or other decreased availability or servicing of parts and equipment could adversely affect our ability to meet our commitments to customers, adversely impact our operations and revenues by resulting in uncompensated downtime, reduced day rates or the cancellation or termination of contracts, or increase our operating costs.. Unionization efforts and labor regulations in certain countries in which we operate could materially increase our costs or limit our flexibility.. Certain of our employees and contractors in international markets are represented by labor unions or work under collective bargaining or similar agreements, which are subject to periodic renegotiation. Efforts may be made from time to time to unionize portions of our workforce. In addition, we may be subject to strikes or work stoppages and other labor disruptions in the future. Additional unionization efforts, new collective bargaining agreements or work stoppages could materially increase our costs, reduce our revenues or limit our operational flexibility.. Any failure to comply with the complex laws and regulations governing international trade could adversely affect our operations.. The shipment of goods, services and technology across international borders subjects our business to extensive trade laws and regulations. Import activities are governed by unique customs laws and regulations in each of the countries of operation. Moreover, many countries, including the United States, control the export and re-export of certain goods, services and technology and impose related export recordkeeping and reporting obligations. Governments also may impose economic sanctions against certain countries, persons and other entities that may restrict or prohibit transactions involving such countries, persons and entities. U.S. sanctions, in particular, are targeted against certain countries that are heavily involved in the petroleum and petrochemical industries, which includes drilling activities.. The laws and regulations concerning import activity, export recordkeeping and reporting, export control and economic sanctions are complex and constantly changing. These laws and regulations may be enacted, amended, enforced or interpreted in a manner materially impacting our operations. Shipments can be delayed and denied export or entry for a variety of reasons, some of which are outside our control and some of which may result from failure to comply with existing legal and regulatory regimes. Shipping delays or denials could cause unscheduled operational downtime. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory trading obligations could also result in criminal and civil penalties and sanctions, such as fines, imprisonment, debarment from government contracts, seizure of shipments and loss of import and export privileges.. Currently, we do not, nor do we intend to, operate in countries that are subject to significant sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government or identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism, such as the Crimean region of the Ukraine, Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Sudan and Syria. The U.S. sanctions and embargo laws and regulations vary in their application, as they do not all apply to the same covered persons or proscribe the same activities, and such sanctions and embargo laws and regulations may be amended or strengthened over time. Although we believe that we will be in compliance with all applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations at the filing date, and intend to maintain such compliance, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future, particularly as the scope of certain laws may be unclear and may be subject to changing interpretations. Any such violation could result in fines or other penalties and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not to invest, in us. In addition, certain institutional investors may have investment policies or restrictions that prevent them from holding securities of companies that have contracts with countries identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism. In addition, our reputation and the market for our securities may be adversely affected if we engage in certain other activities, such as entering into drilling contracts with individuals or entities in countries subject to significant U.S. sanctions and embargo laws that are not controlled by the governments of those countries, or engaging in operations associated with those countries pursuant to contracts with third parties that are unrelated to those countries or entities controlled by their governments.. 21. Pension expenses associated with our retirement benefit plans may fluctuate significantly depending upon changes in actuarial assumptions, future investment performance of plan assets and legislative or other regulatory actions.. A portion of our current and retired employee population is covered by pension and other post-retirement benefit plans, the costs of which are dependent upon various assumptions, including estimates of rates of return on benefit plan assets, discount rates for future payment obligations, mortality assumptions, rates of future cost growth and trends for future costs. In addition, funding requirements for benefit obligations of our pension and other post-retirement benefit plans are subject to legislative and other government regulatory actions. Future changes in estimates and assumptions associated with our pension and other post-retirement benefit plans could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or financial disclosures.. Fluctuations in exchange rates and nonconvertibility of currencies could result in losses to us.. We may experience currency exchange losses when revenues are received or expenses are paid in nonconvertible currencies, when we do not hedge an exposure to a foreign currency, when the result of a hedge is a loss or if any counterparty to our hedge were to experience financial difficulties. We may also incur losses as a result of an inability to collect revenues due to a shortage of convertible currency available to the country of operation, controls over currency exchange or controls over the repatriation of income or capital.. We are subject to litigation that could have an adverse effect on us.. We are, from time to time, involved in various litigation matters. These matters may include, among other things, contract disputes, personal injury claims, asbestos and other toxic tort claims, environmental claims or proceedings, employment matters, governmental claims for taxes or duties, and other litigation that arises in the ordinary course of our business. Although we intend to defend these matters vigorously, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any claim or other litigation matter, and there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome of any litigation. Litigation may have an adverse effect on us because of potential negative outcomes, costs of attorneys, the allocation of management's time and attention, and other factors.. We are a holding company, and we are dependent upon cash flow from subsidiaries to meet our obligations.. We currently conduct our operations through our subsidiaries, and our operating income and cash flow are generated by our subsidiaries. As a result, cash we obtain from our subsidiaries is the principal source of funds necessary to meet our debt service obligations. Unless they are guarantors of our indebtedness, our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on our indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. Contractual provisions or laws, as well as our subsidiaries' financial condition and operating requirements, may also limit our ability to obtain the cash that we require from our subsidiaries to pay our debt service obligations. Applicable tax laws may also subject such payments to us by our subsidiaries to further taxation."
