[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Our business faces many risks. We believe the risks described below outline the items of most concern to us.. RISKS DUE TO STRATEGIC AND OPERATIONAL FACTORS. Our inability to successfully execute our customer strategy or our plans to evolve our business model could negatively impact our business and future profitability and growth.. The retail environment is rapidly evolving with customer shopping preferences continuing to shift to digital channels. Computers and mobile electronic devices allow customers to browse and transact anywhere and anytime. Our customer strategy focuses on providing a differentiated and seamless experience across all Nordstrom channels, whether in store or in the digital environment. We are enhancing our customer shopping experience in our stores and online, including mobile and social channels, by pursuing a heightened focus on digital technology to fuel our growth.. Our growth strategies in this area span the development of applications for electronic devices, improvement of customer-facing technology, timely delivery of products purchased digitally, enhancement of inventory management systems, greater and more fluid inventory availability between digital and retail locations, and greater consistency in marketing and pricing strategies. In addition, these strategies will require further expansion and reliance on data science and analytics across all our channels. This business model has a high variable cost structure driven by fulfillment and marketing costs and will continue to require investment in cross-channel operations and supporting technologies.. With the accelerated pace of change in the retail environment, we may not be able to meet our customers' changing expectations of how they shop in stores or through digital channels. If we do not successfully implement and expand our digital initiatives, or do not seamlessly integrate or maintain them properly, we may fall short of our customer's expectations, impacting our brand, reputation, profitability and growth. In addition, if customers shift to digital channels at a different pace than we anticipate, we may need to quickly modify our initiatives and investments, which may adversely impact our profitability and harm our competitive position. We also may not gather accurate and relevant data or effectively utilize that data, which may impact our strategic planning and decision making.. Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  7. Table of Contents. Our business could suffer if we do not appropriately assess and react to competitive market forces and changes in customer behavior.. We compete with other international, national, regional and local retailers, including internet-based businesses, omni-channel department stores, specialty stores, off-price stores and boutiques, that may carry similar lines of merchandise. Digital channels continue to facilitate comparison shopping, intensifying competition in the retail market. If we fail to adequately anticipate and respond to customer and market dynamics, we may lose market share or our ability to remain competitive, causing our sales and profitability to suffer. If we do not properly allocate our capital between the store and digital environment or between the full-price and off-price channels, or adjust the effectiveness and efficiency of our stores and digital channels, our overall sales and profitability could suffer.. Our customer relationships and sales may be negatively impacted if we do not anticipate and respond to consumer preferences and fashion trends or manage inventory levels appropriately.. Our ability to predict or respond to constantly changing fashion trends, consumer preferences and spending patterns significantly impacts our sales and operating results. If we do not identify and respond to emerging trends in consumer spending and preferences quickly enough, we may harm our ability to retain our existing customers or attract new customers. If we purchase too much inventory, we may be forced to sell our merchandise at lower average margins, which could harm our business. Conversely, if we fail to purchase enough merchandise, we may lose opportunities for additional sales and potentially harm relationships with our customers.. The investment in existing and new store locations, including our Nordstrom Men's Store NYC and Nordstrom NYC, may outpace our expected returns.. The locations of our existing stores and planned store openings are assessed based upon desirability, demographics, and retail environment. This involves certain risks, including properly balancing our capital investments between new stores, relocations, remodels, technology and digital channels, assessing the suitability of locations, especially in new domestic and international markets, and constructing, furnishing and supplying a store in a timely and cost-effective manner. In particular, we plan to open our Nordstrom Men's Store NYC in Spring 2018 and our Nordstrom NYC store in 2019.. Sales at our stores may not meet projections, particularly in light of the changing trends between digital and brick-and-mortar shopping channels, which could adversely affect our return on investment. As we enter into new domestic and international markets, such as Manhattan and Canada, our efforts will require additional management attention and resources and may distract us from executing our core operations.. Even if we take appropriate measures to safeguard our information security and privacy environment from security breaches, our customers and our business could still be exposed to risk.. Nordstrom, our subsidiaries and, in some instances, our third-party vendors collect, store and transmit customers' personal information, consumer preferences and credit card information. In addition, our operations involve the collection, storage and transmission of employee information and our financial and strategic data. Security breaches of this information may be the result of intentional or inadvertent activities by our employees or by third parties with whom we have business relationships that may result in the unauthorized release of customer or employee personal or confidential information.. Any measures we implement to prevent a security or cybersecurity threat may not be completely effective and may have the potential to harm relations with our customers and employees or decrease activity on our websites by making them more difficult to use. In addition, the regulatory environment surrounding information security, cybersecurity and privacy is increasingly demanding, with new and constantly changing requirements.. Security breaches and cyber incidents and their remediation, whether at Nordstrom, our third-party providers or other retailers, could expose us to a risk of loss or misappropriation of this information, litigation, regulatory enforcement action, fines, information technology system failures or network disruptions, potential liability, reputation damage and loss of customers' trust and business, any of which could adversely impact our financial performance. Any such breaches or incidents could subject us to financial losses, investigation, notification and remediation costs, which may not be covered by our insurance policies. If there is additional information that is later discovered related to such security breach or incident, there could be further loss of shareholders' and customers' trust and business based upon their reactions to this additional information. Additionally, we could be subject to external credit card fraud. To the extent that any incident results in the loss, damage or misappropriation of information, we may be materially adversely affected by claims from our customers, financial institutions, regulators, payment card networks and other third parties.. Our business may be impacted by information technology system failures or network disruptions.. Our ability to transact with customers and operate our business depends on the efficient operation of our computer and communications systems. If we encounter an interruption or deterioration in critical processes or experience the loss of critical data, which may result from natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, security or cybersecurity threats or attacks or third-party or other disruptions, our business could be harmed. Depending on the severity of the failure, our disaster recovery plans may be inadequate or ineffective. These events could also damage our reputation, result in loss of sales and be expensive to remedy.. 8. Table of Contents. Improvements to our merchandise buying and fulfillment processes and systems could adversely affect our business if not successfully executed.. We are making investments to improve our merchandise planning, procurement, allocation and fulfillment capabilities through changes in personnel, processes, location logistics and technology over a period of several years. If we encounter challenges associated with change management, the ability to hire and retain key personnel involved in these efforts, implementation of associated information technology or adoption of new processes, our ability to continue to successfully execute our strategy or evolve our strategy with changes in the retail environment could be adversely affected. As a result, we may not derive the expected benefits to our sales and profitability, or we may incur increased costs relative to our current expectations.. The possibility of a \"going private transaction\" by the Nordstrom family could negatively impact our operating results, business and relationships with our customers, employees, suppliers and partners.. In June 2017, members of the Nordstrom family formed a group (the \"Group\") to explore the possibility of pursuing a \"going private transaction\" involving the acquisition by the Group of 100% of our outstanding shares of common stock (a \"Going Private Transaction\"). The Board of Directors also formed a special committee (the \"Special Committee\") comprised of independent directors to act on the Company's behalf in connection with such exploration by the Group and any possible transaction. In October 2017, the Group informed the Special Committee that the Group has suspended active exploration of a Going Private Transaction for the balance of the year. The Group also informed the Special Committee that it intends to continue its efforts to explore the possibility of making a going private proposal after the conclusion of the holiday season. In March 2018, the Group delivered an indicative proposal to the Special Committee regarding a Going Private Transaction. The Special Committee determined that the price proposed is inadequate. No assurances can be given regarding the terms and details of any such transaction, that any proposal made by the Group, if any, will be accepted by the Special Committee, that definitive documentation relating to a transaction will be executed, or that a transaction will be consummated in accordance with that documentation, if at all. We do not plan to disclose developments or provide updates on the progress or status of any potential Going Private Transaction until the Special Committee deems further disclosure is appropriate or required. Speculation regarding any developments related to the review of a Going Private Transaction and perceived uncertainties related to our future could cause our stock price to fluctuate significantly.. The possibility of a Going Private Transaction or any other alternative may expose us and our operations to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the potential failure to retain, attract or strengthen our relationships with key personnel, current and potential customers, suppliers, and partners, which may cause them to terminate, or not to renew or enter into, arrangements with us; the potential incurrence of expenses associated with the retention of legal, financial and other advisors regardless of whether any transaction is consummated; distractions and disruptions in our business; and exposure to potential litigation in connection with this process and effecting any transaction, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations as well as the market price of our common stock.. Our customer, employee and vendor relationships could be negatively affected if we fail to maintain our corporate culture and reputation.. We have a well-recognized culture and reputation that consumers may associate with a high level of integrity, customer service and quality merchandise, and it is one of the reasons customers shop with us and employees choose us as a place of employment. Any significant damage to our reputation, including factors outside our control or on social media, could diminish customer trust, weaken our vendor relationships, reduce employee morale and productivity and lead to difficulties in recruiting and retaining qualified employees. Additionally, management may not accurately assess the impact of significant legislative changes, including those that relate to privacy, employment matters and health care, impacting our relationship with our customers or our workforce and adversely affecting our sales and operations.. If we do not effectively design and implement our strategic and business planning processes to attract, retain, train and develop talent and future leaders, our business may suffer.. We rely on the experience of our senior management, who have specific knowledge relating to us and our industry that is difficult to replace, and the talents of our workforce to execute our business strategies and objectives. We have succession plans in place and our Board of Directors reviews these succession plans. If our succession plans do not adequately cover significant and unanticipated turnover, the loss of the services of any of these individuals, or any resulting negative perceptions of our business, could damage our reputation and our business. Additionally, our ability to maintain relationships with and motivate our employees and to effectively attract, develop and retain our future leaders, could be impacted by the uncertainty about the possibility of a Going Private Transaction.. Our program agreement with TD could adversely impact our business.. The program agreement with TD was consummated on terms that allow us to maintain customer-facing activities while TD provides Nordstrom-branded payment methods and payment processing services. If we fail to meet certain service levels, TD has the right to assume certain individual servicing functions. If we lose control of such activities and functions, if we do not successfully respond to potential risks and appropriately manage potential costs associated with the program agreement with TD, or if these transactions negatively impact the customer service associated with our cards, resulting in harm to our business reputation and competitive position, our operations, cash flows and returns to shareholders could be adversely affected. If TD became unwilling or unable to provide these services or if there are changes to the risk management policies implemented under our program agreement with TD, our results may be negatively impacted.. Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  9. Table of Contents. Ownership and leasing real estate exposes us to possible liabilities and losses.. We own or lease the land and/or buildings for all of our stores and are therefore subject to all of the risks associated with owning and leasing real estate. In particular, the value of the assets could decrease, their operating costs could increase, or a store may not be opened as planned due to changes in the real estate market, demographic trends, site competition, dependence on third-party performance or overall economic environment. Additionally, we are potentially subject to liability for environmental conditions, exit costs associated with disposal of a store, commitments to pay base rent for the entire lease term or operate a store for the duration of an operating covenant.. Investment and partnerships in new business strategies and acquisitions could disrupt our core business.. We have invested in or are pursuing strategic growth opportunities, which may include acquisitions of, or investments in, other businesses, as well as new technologies or other investments to provide a superior customer shopping experience in our stores and digital channels. Additionally, our business model will continue to rely more on partnerships with third parties for certain strategic initiatives and technologies. If these investments, acquisitions or partnerships do not perform as expected or create operational difficulties, we may record impairment charges. If we do not realize our anticipated return on investments, our profitability and growth could be adversely affected.. If we fail to appropriately manage our capital, we may negatively impact our operations and shareholder return.. We utilize working capital to finance our operations, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, manage our debt levels and return value to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. Changes in the credit and capital markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate fluctuations, may increase the cost of financing or restrict access to a potential source of liquidity. A deterioration in our capital structure or the quality and stability of our earnings could result in noncompliance with our debt covenants or a downgrade of our credit rating, constraining the financing available to our Company. If our access to financing is restricted or our borrowing costs increase, our operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. Further, if we do not properly allocate our capital to maximize returns, our operations, cash flows and returns to shareholders could be adversely affected.. The concentration of stock ownership in a small number of our shareholders could limit our shareholders' ability to influence corporate matters.. We have regularly reported in our annual proxy statements the holdings of members of the Nordstrom family, including Bruce A. Nordstrom, our former Co-President and Chairman of the Board, his sister Anne E. Gittinger and members of the Nordstrom family within our Executive Team. According to the Schedule 13D/A filed with the SEC on March 5, 2018, these individuals beneficially owned an aggregate of approximately 31% of our common stock. As a result, either individually or acting together, they may be able to exercise considerable influence over matters requiring shareholder approval. In addition, as reported in our periodic filings, our Board of Directors has from time to time authorized share repurchases. While these share repurchases may be offset in part by share issuances under our equity incentive plans and as consideration for acquisitions, the repurchases may nevertheless have the effect of increasing the overall percentage ownership held by these shareholders. The corporate law of the State of Washington, where the Company is incorporated, provides that approval of a merger or similar significant corporate transaction requires the affirmative vote of two-thirds of a company's outstanding shares. The beneficial ownership of these shareholders may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire us, delay or otherwise prevent a significant corporate transaction because the consummation of any such transaction would likely require the approval of these shareholders. As a result, the market price of our common stock could be affected.. RISKS DUE TO ECONOMIC AND EXTERNAL MARKET FACTORS. Our revenues and operating results are affected by the seasonal nature of our business and cyclical trends in consumer spending.. Our business, like that of other retailers, is subject to seasonal fluctuations and cyclical trends in consumer spending. Due to our Anniversary Sale in July and the holidays in the fourth quarter, our sales are typically higher in the second and fourth quarters than in the first and third quarters of the fiscal year. Any factor that negatively impacts these selling seasons could have an adverse effect on our results of operations for the entire year. To provide shareholders a better understanding of management's expectations surrounding results, we provide public guidance on our expected operating and financial results for future periods comprised of forward-looking statements subject to certain risks and uncertainties.. A downturn in economic conditions and other external market factors could have a significant adverse effect on our business and stock price.. During economic downturns, fewer customers may shop for the high-quality items in our stores and on our websites, as these products may be seen as discretionary, and those who do shop may limit the amount of their purchases. This reduced demand may lead to lower sales, higher markdowns and an overly promotional environment or increased marketing and promotional spending.. Additionally, factors such as results differing from guidance, changes in sales and operating income in the peak seasons, changes in our market valuations, performance results for the general retail industry, announcements by us or our industry peers or changes in analysts' recommendations may still impact the price of our common stock and our shareholder returns.. 10. Table of Contents. Our stores located in shopping malls may be adversely affected by any declines in consumer traffic of malls.. The majority of our stores are located within shopping malls and benefit from the abilities that we and other anchor tenants have to generate consumer traffic. A substantial decline in mall traffic, the development of new shopping malls, the availability of locations within existing or new shopping malls, the success of individual shopping malls and the success of other anchor tenants may negatively impact our ability to maintain or grow our sales in existing stores, as well as our ability to open new stores, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. Our business depends on third parties for the production, supply or delivery of goods, and a disruption could result in lost sales or increased costs.. The continued success of our operations is tied to our timely receipt of quality merchandise from third parties. Our process to identify qualified vendors and access quality products in an efficient manner on acceptable terms and cost can be complex. Violations of law with respect to quality and safety by our importers, manufacturers or distributors could result in delays in shipments and receipt of goods or damage our reputation, resulting in lost sales. These vendors may experience difficulties due to economic or political conditions or the countries in which merchandise is manufactured could become subject to new trade restrictions, including increased customs restrictions, tariffs or quotas. Additionally, changes in tax and trade policies that impact the retail industry, such as increased taxation on imported goods, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and liquidity.. The results of our Credit operations could be adversely affected by changes in market conditions.. Revenues earned under our program agreement with TD are indirectly subject to economic and market conditions that are beyond our control, including, but not limited to, interest rates, consumer credit availability, demand for credit, consumer debt levels, payment patterns, delinquency rates, employment trends and other factors. Changes in these economic and market conditions could impair our revenues and profitability.. Our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected by supply chain disruptions, port disruptions, severe weather patterns, natural disasters, widespread pandemics and other natural or man-made disruptions.. These disruptions could cause, among other things, a decrease in consumer spending that would negatively impact our sales, staffing shortages in our stores, distribution centers or corporate offices, interruptions in the flow of merchandise to our stores, disruptions in the operations of our merchandise vendors or property developers, increased costs and a negative impact on our reputation and long-term growth plans. We have a significant amount of our total sales, stores and square footage in the west coast of the United States, particularly in California, which increases our exposure to market-disrupting conditions in this region.. RISKS DUE TO LEGAL AND REGULATORY FACTORS. We are subject to certain laws, litigation, regulatory matters and ethical standards, and our failure to comply with or adequately address developments as they arise could adversely affect our reputation and operations.. Our policies, procedures and practices and the technology we implement are designed to comply with federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations, including those imposed by the SEC, consumer protection and other regulatory agencies, the marketplace, and foreign countries, as well as responsible business, social and environmental practices, all of which may change from time to time. Compliance with laws and regulations and/or significant legislative changes may cause our business to be adversely impacted, or even limit or restrict the activities of our business. In addition, if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations or implement responsible business, social, environmental and supply chain practices, we could be subject to damage to our reputation, class action lawsuits, legal and settlement costs, civil and criminal liability, increased cost of regulatory compliance, losing our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our customers, restatements of our financial statements, disruption of our business and loss of customers. Any required changes to our employment practices could result in the loss of employees, reduced sales, increased employment costs, low employee morale and harm to our business and results of operations. In addition, political and economic factors could lead to unfavorable changes in federal, state and foreign tax laws, which may affect our tax assets or liabilities and adversely affect our results of operations. We are also regularly involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of business. Litigation or regulatory developments could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. Changes to accounting rules and regulations could affect our financial results or financial condition.. Accounting principles and related pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide variety of accounting matters that are relevant to our business, including, but not limited to, revenue recognition, merchandise inventories, leasing, goodwill, impairment of long-lived assets, stock-based compensation and tax matters are highly complex and involve subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments. Changes in these rules and regulations, changes in our interpretation of the rules or regulations or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments could adversely affect our financial performance or financial position."
