[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. In an enterprise as diverse as ours, a wide range of factors could affect future performance. We discuss in this section some of the risk factors that, if they actually occurred, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, value and results of operations. You should consider these risk factors in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause our actual results and financial condition to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements.. The significant risk factors affecting our operations include the following:. Changes in United States or international economic conditions, including declines in the industries we serve, could adversely affect the profitability of any of our operations.. In 2017, approximately 31 percent of our revenue was generated in the United States, while approximately 69 percent was generated outside the United States. Our largest markets include appliance, automotive, construction, container, electronics assembly, food and beverage, furniture, medical, metal finishing, nonwovens, packaging, paper and paperboard converting, plastics processing and semiconductor. A slowdown in any of these specific end markets could directly affect our revenue stream and profitability.. A portion of our product sales is attributable to industries and markets, such as the semiconductor, mobile electronics, polymer processing and metal finishing industries, which historically have been cyclical and sensitive to relative changes in supply and demand and general economic conditions. The demand for our products depends, in part, on the general economic conditions of the industries or national economies of our customers. Downward economic cycles in our customers' industries or countries may reduce sales of some of our products. It is not possible to predict accurately the factors that will affect demand for our products in the future.. Any significant downturn in the health of the general economy, globally, regionally or in the markets in which we sell products, could have an adverse effect on our revenues and financial performance, resulting in impairment of assets.. If we fail to develop new products, or our customers do not accept the new products we develop, our revenue and profitability could be adversely impacted.. Innovation is critical to our success. We believe that we must continue to enhance our existing products and to develop and manufacture new products with improved capabilities in order to continue to be a leading provider of precision technology solutions for the industrial equipment market. We also believe that we must continue to make improvements in our productivity in order to maintain our competitive position. Difficulties or delays in research, development or production of new products or failure to gain market acceptance of new products and technologies may reduce future sales and adversely affect our competitive position. We continue to invest in the development and marketing of new products. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient resources to make such investments, that we will be able to make the technological advances necessary to maintain competitive advantages or that we can recover major research and development expenses. If we fail to make innovations, launch products with quality problems or the market does not accept our new products, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity could be adversely affected. In addition, as new or enhanced products are introduced, we must successfully manage the transition from older products to minimize disruption in customers' ordering patterns, avoid excessive levels of older product inventories and ensure that we can deliver sufficient supplies of new products to meet customers' demands.. Our growth strategy includes acquisitions, and we may not be able to execute on our acquisition strategy or integrate acquisitions successfully.. Our recent historical growth has depended, and our future growth is likely to continue to depend, in part on our acquisition strategy and the successful integration of acquired businesses into our existing operations.  In March 2017, we completed the acquisition of Vention, a leading designer, developer and manufacturer of minimally invasive interventional delivery devices, catheters and advanced components for the global medical technology market. Failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Vention acquisition could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management's time and energy and could have an adverse effect on the acquired company's business, financial condition, operating results and prospects.  In addition, it is possible that the integration process could result in the disruption of our ongoing businesses or cause inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition.. We intend to continue to seek additional acquisition opportunities both to expand into new markets and to enhance our position in existing markets throughout the world. We cannot assure we will be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition opportunities, prevail against competing potential acquirers, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, obtain financing that may be needed to. Nordson Corporation 10. consummate such acquisitions, complete proposed acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations or expand into new markets. In addition, we cannot assure that any acquisition, once successfully integrated, will perform as planned, be accretive to earnings, or prove to be beneficial to our operations and cash flow.. The success of our acquisition strategy is subject to other risks and uncertainties, including:. •  our ability to realize operating efficiencies, synergies or other benefits expected from an acquisition, and possible delays in realizing the benefits of the acquired company or products;. •  diversion of management's time and attention from other business concerns;. •  difficulties in retaining key employees, customers or suppliers of the acquired business;. •  difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies throughout acquired companies;. •  adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers or customers;. •  the risks associated with the assumption of product liabilities, contingent or undisclosed liabilities of acquisition targets; and. •  the ability to generate future cash flows or the availability of financing.. In addition, an acquisition could adversely impact our operating performance as a result of the incurrence of acquisition-related debt, pre-acquisition potential tax liabilities, acquisition expenses, the amortization of acquisition-acquired assets, or possible future impairments of goodwill or intangible assets associated with the acquisition.. We may also face liability with respect to acquired businesses for violations of environmental laws occurring prior to the date of our acquisition, and some or all of these liabilities may not be covered by environmental insurance secured to mitigate the risk or by indemnification from the sellers from which we acquired these businesses. We could also incur significant costs, including, but not limited to, remediation costs, natural resources damages, civil or criminal fines and sanctions and third-party claims, as a result of past or future violations of, or liabilities, associated with environmental laws.. Increased IT security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime could pose a risk to our systems, networks, products, solutions and services.. Increased global IT security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. While we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including employee training, comprehensive monitoring of our networks and systems, and maintenance of backup and protective systems, our systems, networks, products, solutions and services remain potentially vulnerable to advanced persistent threats. Depending on their nature and scope, such threats could potentially lead to the compromising of confidential information, including but not limited to confidential information relating to customer or employee data, improper use of our systems and networks, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our reputation, competitiveness and results of operations.. The interpretation and application of data protection laws, including federal, state and international laws, relating to the collection, use, retention, disclosure, security and transfer of personally identifiable data in the U.S., Europe (including but not limited to the General Data Protection Regulation), and elsewhere, are uncertain and evolving. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. Complying with these laws may cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.. Significant movements in foreign currency exchange rates or change in monetary policy may harm our financial results.. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly with respect to the euro, the yen, the pound sterling and the Chinese yuan. Any significant change in the value of the currencies of the countries in which we do business against the United States dollar could affect our ability to sell products competitively and control our cost structure, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For additional detail related to this risk, see Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk.. The majority of our consolidated revenues in 2017 were generated in currencies other than the United States dollar, which is our reporting currency. We recognize foreign currency transaction gains and losses arising from our operations in the period incurred. As a result, currency fluctuations between the United States dollar and the currencies in which we do business have caused and will continue to cause foreign currency transaction and translation gains and losses, which historically have been material and could continue to be material. We cannot predict the effects of exchange rate fluctuations upon our future operating results because of the. Nordson Corporation 11. number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposures and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates. We take actions to manage our foreign currency exposure, such as entering into hedging transactions, where available, but we cannot assure that our strategies will adequately protect our consolidated operating results from the effects of exchange rate fluctuations. For example, the announcement of Brexit and subsequent steps taken by Britain to begin withdrawal from the European Union caused volatility in global currency exchange rate fluctuations that resulted in the strengthening of the United States dollar against foreign currencies in which we conduct business.  Future adverse consequences arising from Brexit may include continued volatility in exchange rates.  Any significant fluctuation in exchange rates may be harmful to our financial condition and results of operations. We also face risks arising from the imposition of exchange controls and currency devaluations. Exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into United States dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or customers located in or conducting business in a country imposing controls. Currency devaluations diminish the United States dollar value of the currency of the country instituting the devaluation and, if they occur or continue for significant periods, could adversely affect our earnings or cash flow.. Any impairment in the value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, would negatively affect our operating results and total capitalization.. Our total assets reflect substantial intangible assets, primarily goodwill. The goodwill results from our acquisitions and represents the excess of cost over the fair value of the identifiable net assets we acquired. We assess at least annually whether there has been any impairment in the value of our intangible assets. If future operating performance at one or more of our business units were to fall significantly below current levels, if competing or alternative technologies emerge, if market conditions for acquired businesses decline, if significant and prolonged negative industry or economic trends exist, if our stock price and market capitalization declines, or if future cash flow estimates decline, we could incur, under current applicable accounting rules, a non-cash charge to operating earnings for goodwill impairment. Any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of unamortized intangible assets would negatively affect our results of operations and equity book value, the effect of which could be material.. Changes in United States and international tax law may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Changes in applicable domestic or foreign tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation and application, including the possibility of retroactive effect, could affect our business, financial condition and profitability by increasing our tax liabilities. Our future results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in our effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in jurisdictions with differing statutory tax rates, changes in our overall profitability, changes in tax legislation and rates, changes in generally accepted accounting principles and changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities. The U.S. federal government may adopt changes to international trade agreements, tariffs, taxes and other government rules and regulations.  While we cannot predict what changes will actually occur with respect to any of these items, such changes could affect our business and results of operations.. If our intellectual property protection is inadequate, others may be able to use our technologies and tradenames and thereby reduce our ability to compete, which could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition and results of operations.. We regard much of the technology underlying our products and the trademarks under which we market our products as proprietary. The steps we take to protect our proprietary technology may be inadequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology, or third parties may independently develop similar technology. We rely on a combination of patents, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, employee and third-party non-disclosure agreements and other contracts to establish and protect our technology and other intellectual property rights. The agreements may be breached or terminated, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach, and existing trade secrets, patent and copyright law afford us limited protection. Policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. A third party could copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology without authorization. Litigation may be necessary for us to defend against claims of infringement or to protect our intellectual property rights and could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our efforts. Further, we might not prevail in such litigation, which could harm our business.. Our products could infringe on the intellectual property of others, which may cause us to engage in costly litigation and, if we are not successful, could cause us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from selling our products.. Third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us based on their patents or other intellectual property claims, and we may have to pay substantial damages, possibly including treble damages, if it is ultimately determined our products infringe. We may have to obtain a license to sell our products if it is determined that our products infringe upon another party's intellectual property. We might be prohibited from selling our products before we obtain a license, which, if available at all,. Nordson Corporation 12. may require us to pay substantial royalties. Even if infringement claims against us are without merit, defending these types of lawsuits takes significant time, may be expensive and may divert management attention from other business concerns.. We may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are subject to compliance with various laws and regulations, including the FCPA and similar worldwide anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from engaging in bribery or making other improper payments to private or public parties for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or gaining an unfair business advantage. The FCPA also requires proper record keeping and characterization of such payments in our reports filed with the SEC. Our employees are trained and required to comply with these laws, and we are committed to legal compliance and corporate ethics. Violations of these laws could result in severe criminal or civil sanctions and financial penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations.. Our inability to comply with our existing credit facilities' restrictive covenants or to access additional sources of capital could impede growth or the repayment or refinancing of existing indebtedness.. The limits imposed on us by the restrictive covenants contained in our credit facilities could prevent us from making acquisitions or cause us to lose access to these facilities.. Our existing credit facilities contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to, among other things:. •  borrow money or guarantee the debts of others;. •  use assets as security in other transactions;. •  make restricted payments or distributions; and. •  sell or acquire assets or merge with or into other companies.. In addition, our credit facilities require us to meet financial ratios, including a \"Leverage Ratio\" and an \"Interest Coverage Ratio,\" both as defined in the credit facilities.. These restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs and could otherwise restrict our financing activities.. Our ability to comply with the covenants and other terms of our credit facilities will depend on our future operating performance. If we fail to comply with such covenants and terms, we may be in default and the maturity of the related debt could be accelerated and become immediately due and payable. We may be required to obtain waivers from our lenders in order to maintain compliance under our credit facilities, including waivers with respect to our compliance with certain financial covenants. If we are unable to obtain necessary waivers and the debt under our credit facilities is accelerated, we would be required to obtain replacement financing at prevailing market rates.. We may need new or additional financing in the future to expand our business or refinance existing indebtedness. If we are unable to access capital on satisfactory terms and conditions, we may not be able to expand our business or meet our payment requirements under our existing credit facilities. Our ability to obtain new or additional financing will depend on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. We may not be able to obtain new or additional financing because we have substantial debt or because we may not have sufficient cash flow to service or repay our existing or future debt. In addition, depending on market conditions and our financial performance, neither debt nor equity financing may be available on satisfactory terms or at all. Finally, as a consequence of worsening financial market conditions, our credit facility providers may not provide the agreed credit if they become undercapitalized.. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect us.. Any period of interest rate increases may also adversely affect our profitability. At October 31, 2017, we had $1,582,984 of total debt and notes payable outstanding, of which 80 percent was priced at interest rates that float with the market. A one percent increase in the interest rate on the floating rate debt in 2017 would have resulted in approximately $11,064 of additional interest expense. A higher level of floating rate debt would increase the exposure to changes in interest rates. For additional detail related to this risk, see Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk.. Nordson Corporation 13. Failure to retain our existing senior management team or the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could hurt our business and inhibit our ability to operate and grow successfully.. Our success will continue to depend to a significant extent on the continued service of our executive management team and the ability to recruit, hire and retain other key management personnel to support our growth and operational initiatives and replace executives who retire or resign. Failure to retain our leadership team and attract and retain other important management and technical personnel could place a constraint on our global growth and operational initiatives, possibly resulting in inefficient and ineffective management and operations, which would likely harm our revenues, operations and product development efforts and eventually result in a decrease in profitability.. The level of returns on pension plan assets and changes in the actuarial assumptions used could adversely affect us.. Our operating results may be positively or negatively impacted by the amount of expense we record for our defined benefit pension plans. U.S. GAAP requires that we calculate pension expense using actuarial valuations, which are dependent upon our various assumptions including estimates of expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, discount rates for future payment obligations, and the expected rate of increase in future compensation levels. Our pension expense and funding requirements may also be affected by our actual return on plan assets and by legislation and other government regulatory actions. Changes in assumptions, laws or regulations could lead to variability in operating results and could have a material adverse impact on liquidity.. Regulations related to conflict-free minerals may result in additional expenses that could affect our financial condition and business operations.. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the SEC promulgated final rules regarding disclosure of the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, which are mined from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries, as well as procedures regarding a manufacturer's efforts to prevent the sourcing of such minerals and metals produced from those minerals. These new disclosure obligations will require continuing due diligence efforts to support our future disclosure requirements. We incurred and will continue to incur costs associated with complying with such disclosure requirements, including costs associated with canvassing our supply chain to determine the source country of any conflict minerals incorporated in our products, in addition to the cost of remediation and other changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. In addition, the implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of materials used in our products.. Political conditions in the U.S. and foreign countries in which we operate could adversely affect us.. We conduct our manufacturing, sales and distribution operations on a worldwide basis and are subject to risks associated with doing business outside the United States. In 2017, approximately 69 percent of our total sales were generated outside the United States. We expect that international operations and United States export sales will continue to be important to our business for the foreseeable future. Both sales from international operations and export sales are subject in varying degrees to risks inherent in doing business outside the United States. Such risks include, but are not limited to, the following:. •  risks of economic instability;. •  unanticipated or unfavorable circumstances arising from host country laws or regulations;. •  threats of war, terrorism or governmental instability;. •  significant foreign and U.S. taxes on repatriated cash;. •  changes in tax rates, adoption of new tax laws or other additional tax policies, including the implementation of proposals to reform United States and foreign tax laws that could impact how United States multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings;. •  restrictions on the transfer of funds into or out of a country;. •  potential negative consequences from changes to taxation policies;. •  the disruption of operations from labor and political disturbances;. •  the imposition of tariffs, import or export licensing requirements and other potential changes in trade policies and relations arising from policy initiatives implemented by the new U.S. presidential administration; and. •  exchange controls or other trade restrictions including transfer pricing restrictions when products produced in one country are sold to an affiliated entity in another country.. Nordson Corporation 14. Any of these events could reduce the demand for our products, limit the prices at which we can sell our products, interrupt our supply chain, or otherwise have an adverse effect on our operating performance.. Our international operations also depend upon favorable trade relations between the U.S. and those foreign countries in which our customers, subcontractors and materials suppliers have operations. A protectionist trade environment in either the U.S. or those foreign countries in which we do business, such as a change in the current tariff structures, export compliance or other trade policies, may materially and adversely affect our ability to sell our products in foreign markets. The new U.S. presidential administration has criticized existing trade agreements, and while it is currently unclear what actions the administration may take with respect to existing and proposed trade agreements, or restrictions on trade generally, more stringent export and import controls may be imposed in the future.. Our business and operating results may be adversely affected by natural disasters or other catastrophic events beyond our control.. While we have taken precautions to prevent production and service interruptions at our global facilities, severe weather conditions such as hurricanes or tornadoes, as well as major earthquakes, wildfires and other natural disasters, as well as cyberterrorism, in areas in which we have manufacturing facilities or from which we obtain products may cause physical damage to our properties, closure of one or more of our manufacturing or distribution facilities, lack of an adequate work force in a market, temporary disruption in the supply of inventory, disruption in the transport of products and utilities, and delays in the delivery of products to our customers. Any of these factors may disrupt our operations and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. The insurance that we maintain may not fully cover all potential exposures.. We maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance but such insurance may not cover all risks associated with the hazards of our business and is subject to limitations, including deductibles and maximum liabilities covered. We are potentially at risk if one or more of our insurance carriers fail. Additionally, severe disruptions in the domestic and global financial markets could adversely impact the ratings and survival of some insurers. In the future, we may not be able to obtain coverage at current levels, and our premiums may increase significantly on coverage that we maintain."
