[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business and financial results are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are not within our control, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to the Company or that are not currently believed by the Company to be material may also harm the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. When considering any investment in our securities, investors should carefully consider the following information, as well as information contained in the caption \"Forward-Looking Statements\", Item 7A, and other documents we file with the SEC. This list is not exhaustive and the order of presentation does not reflect management's determination of priority or likelihood. Additionally, our listing of risk factors that primarily affects one of our business segments does not mean that such risk factor is inapplicable to our other business segments.. Risks Related to our Business Generally. REGULATORY RISK. Regulation of our businesses, including changes in the regulatory environment, failure of regulatory authorities to approve rates which provide for timely recovery of our costs and an adequate return on invested capital, or an unfavorable outcome in regulatory proceedings may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. The OPUC and WUTC have general regulatory authority over our utility business in Oregon and Washington, respectively, including the rates charged to customers, authorized rates of return on rate base, including ROE, the amounts and types of securities we may issue, services we provide and the manner in which we provide them, the nature of investments we make, actions investors may take with respect to our company, and deferral and recovery of various expenses, including, but not limited to, pipeline replacement, environmental remediation costs, commodity hedging expense, transactions with affiliated interests, weather adjustment mechanisms and other matters. Similarly, in our gas storage businesses FERC has regulatory authority over interstate storage services, the CPUC has regulatory authority over our Gill Ranch storage operations, and the WUTC and OPUC have regulatory authority over our Mist storage operations. Additionally, expansion of our business, including into water or other sectors, could result in regulation by other regulatory authorities.. The prices the OPUC and WUTC allow us to charge for retail service, and the maximum FERC-approved rates FERC authorizes us to charge for interstate storage and related transportation services, are the most significant factors affecting our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. The OPUC and WUTC have the authority to disallow recovery of costs they find imprudently incurred or otherwise disallowed. Additionally, the rates allowed by the FERC may be insufficient for recovery of costs incurred. We expect to continue to make expenditures to expand, improve and operate our utility distribution and gas storage systems. Regulators can find such expansions or improvements of expenditures were not prudently incurred, and deny recovery. Additionally, while the OPUC and WUTC have. established an authorized rate of return for our utility through the ratemaking process, the regulatory process does not provide assurance that we will be able to achieve the earnings level authorized. Moreover, in the normal course of business we may place assets in service or incur higher than expected levels of operating expense before rate cases can be filed to recover those costs - this is commonly referred to as regulatory lag. The failure of any regulatory commission to approve requested rate increases on a timely basis to recover increased costs or to allow an adequate return could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. As a regulated utility, we frequently have dockets open with our regulators. The regulatory proceedings for these dockets typically involve multiple parties, including governmental agencies, consumer advocacy groups, and other third parties. Each party has differing concerns, but all generally have the common objective of limiting amounts included in rates. We cannot predict the timing or outcome of these deferred proceedings or the effects of those outcomes on our results of operations and financial condition.. ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITY RISK. Certain of our properties and facilities may pose environmental risks requiring remediation, the costs of which are difficult to estimate and which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. We own, or previously owned, properties that require environmental remediation or other action. We accrue all material loss contingencies relating to these properties. A regulatory asset at the utility has been recorded for estimated costs pursuant to a Deferral Order from the OPUC and WUTC. In addition to maintaining regulatory deferrals, we settled with most of our historical liability insurers for only a portion of the costs we have incurred to date and expect to incur in the future. To the extent amounts we recovered from insurance are inadequate or we are unable to recover these deferred costs in utility customer rates, we would be required to reduce our regulatory assets which would result in a charge to current year earnings. In addition, in Oregon, the OPUC approved the SRRM, which limits recovery of our deferred amounts to those amounts which satisfy an annual prudence review and earnings test that requires the Company to contribute additional amounts toward environmental remediation costs above approximately $10 million in years in which the Company earns above its authorized Return on Equity (ROE). To the extent the Company earns more than its authorized ROE in a year, the Company would be required to cover environmental expenses greater than the $10 million with those earnings that exceed its authorized ROE. In addition, the OPUC ordered a review of the SRRM in 2018 or when we obtain greater certainty of environmental costs, whichever occurs first. These ongoing prudence reviews, the earnings test, or the three-year review could reduce the amounts we are allowed to recover, and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Moreover, we may have disputes with regulators and other parties as to the severity of particular environmental matters, what remediation efforts are appropriate, and the. 14. Table of Contents. portion of the costs we should bear. We cannot predict with certainty the amount or timing of future expenditures related to environmental investigation, remediation or other action, the portions of these costs allocable to us, or disputes or litigation arising in relation thereto.. Our liability estimates are based on current remediation technology, industry experience gained at similar sites, an assessment of our probable level of responsibility, and the financial condition of other potentially responsible parties. However, it is difficult to estimate such costs due to uncertainties surrounding the course of environmental remediation, the preliminary nature of certain of our site investigations, and the application of environmental laws that impose joint and several liabilities on all potentially responsible parties. These uncertainties and disputes arising therefrom could lead to further adversarial administrative proceedings or litigation, with associated costs and uncertain outcomes, all of which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION COMPLIANCE RISK. We are subject to environmental regulations for our ongoing operations, compliance with which could adversely affect our operations or financial results.. We are subject to laws, regulations and other legal requirements enacted or adopted by federal, state and local governmental authorities relating to protection of the environment, including those legal requirements that govern discharges of substances into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and waste, groundwater quality and availability, plant and wildlife protection, and other aspects of environmental regulation. For example, we are subject to reporting requirements to the Environmental Protection Agency and the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality regarding greenhouse gas emissions. Similarly, there are current legislative efforts in Oregon and Washington to cap or otherwise restrict the maximum GHGs an entity may emit without reduction efforts or other undertakings. These and other current and future additional environmental regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, which may or may not be recoverable in customer rates or through insurance. If these costs are not recoverable, they could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. GLOBAL CLIMATE CHANGE RISK. Future legislation to address global climate change may expose us to regulatory and financial risk. Additionally, our business may be subject to physical risks associated with climate change, all of which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. There are a number of international, federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives being proposed and adopted in an attempt to measure, control or limit the effects of global warming and climate change, including greenhouse gas emissions such as carbon dioxide and methane. Such current or future legislation or regulation could impose on us operational requirements, additional charges to fund energy efficiency initiatives, or levy a tax based on carbon content. Such initiatives could result in us. incurring additional costs to comply with the imposed restrictions, provide a cost advantage to energy sources other than natural gas, reduce demand for natural gas, impose costs or restrictions on end users of natural gas, impact the prices we charge our customers, impose increased costs on us associated with the adoption of new infrastructure and technology to respond to such requirements, and may impact cultural perception of our service or products negatively, diminishing the value of our brand, all of which could adversely affect our business practices, financial condition and results of operations.. Climate change may cause physical risks, including an increase in sea level, intensified storms, water scarcity and changes in weather conditions, such as changes in precipitation, average temperatures and extreme wind or other climate conditions. A significant portion of the nation's gas infrastructure is located in areas susceptible to storm damage that could be aggravated by wetland and barrier island erosion, which could give rise to gas supply interruptions and price spikes.. These and other physical changes could result in disruptions to natural gas production and transportation systems potentially increasing the cost of gas and affecting our ability to procure gas to meet our customer demand. These changes could also affect our distribution systems resulting in increased maintenance and capital costs, disruption of service, regulatory actions and lower customer satisfaction. Additionally, to the extent that climate change adversely impacts the economic health or weather conditions of our service territory directly, it could adversely impact customer demand or our customers' ability to pay. Such physical risks could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. STRATEGIC TRANSACTION RISK. Our ability to successfully complete strategic transactions, including merger, acquisition, divestiture, joint venture, business development projects or other strategic transactions is subject to significant risks, including the risk that required regulatory or governmental approvals may not be obtained, risks relating to unknown or undisclosed problems or liabilities, and the risk that for these or other reasons, we may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we anticipate from such transactions which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. From time to time, we have pursued and may continue to pursue strategic transactions including merger, acquisition, divestiture, joint venture, business development projects or other strategic transactions. Any such transactions involve substantial risks, including the following:. • acquired businesses or assets may not produce revenues, earnings or cash flow at anticipated levels;. • acquired businesses or assets could have, or supply, environmental, permitting, or other problems for which contractual protections prove inadequate;. • we may experience difficulties in integration or operation costs of new businesses;. • we may assume liabilities which were not disclosed to us, that exceed our estimates, or for which our rights to indemnification from the seller are limited;. 15. Table of Contents. • we may be unable to obtain the necessary regulatory or governmental approvals to close a transaction, such approvals may be granted subject to terms that are unacceptable to us, or we may be unable to achieve anticipated regulatory treatment of any such transaction, or such benefits may be delayed or not occur at all;. • we may agree to sell assets for a price that is less than the book value of those assets.. One of more of these conditions could affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT RISK. Our business development projects may encounter unanticipated obstacles, costs, changes or delays that could result in a project becoming impaired, which could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Business development projects involve many risks. We are currently engaged in several business development projects, including, but not limited to, the early planning and development stages for a regional pipeline in Oregon, and an expansion of our gas storage facility at Mist. We may also engage in other business development projects such as investment in additional long-term gas reserves, CNG refueling stations, or projects in the water sector. These projects may not be successful.  Additionally, we may not be able to obtain required governmental permits and approvals to complete our projects in a cost-efficient or timely manner potentially resulting in delays or abandonment of the projects. We could also experience startup and construction delays, construction cost overruns, disputes with contractors, inability to negotiate acceptable agreements such as rights-of-way, easements, construction, gas supply or other material contracts, changes in customer demand or commitment, public opposition to projects, changes in market prices, and operating cost increases. Additionally, we may be unable to finance our business development projects at acceptable interest rates or within a scheduled time frame necessary for completing the project. One or more of these events could result in the project becoming impaired, and such impairment could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. JOINT PARTNER RISK. Investing in business development projects through partnerships, joint ventures or other business arrangements affects our ability to manage certain risks and could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We use joint ventures and other business arrangements to manage and diversify the risks of certain utility and non-utility development projects, including our Trail West pipeline, Gill Ranch storage and our gas reserves agreements. We may acquire or develop part-ownership interests in other projects in the future, including but not limited to, in the water sector. Under these arrangements, we may not be able to fully direct the management and policies of the business relationships, and other participants in those relationships may take action contrary to our interests including making operational decisions that could affect our costs and liabilities. In addition, other participants may withdraw from the project, divest important assets, become financially distressed or bankrupt, or have. economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours.. For example, our gas reserves arrangements, which operate as a hedge backed by physical gas supplies, involve a number of risks. These risks include gas production that is significantly less than the expected volumes, or no gas volumes; operating costs that are higher than expected; changes in our consolidated tax position or tax laws that could affect our ability to take, or timing of, certain tax benefits that impact the financial outcome of this transaction; inherent risks of gas production, including disruption to operations or complete shut-in of the field; and a participant in one of these business arrangements acting contrary to our interests. In addition, while the cost of the original gas reserves venture is currently included in customer rates and additional wells under that arrangement are recovered at a specific cost, the occurrence of one or more of these risks, could affect our ability to recover this hedge in rates.  Further, any new gas reserves arrangements have not been approved for inclusion in rates, and our regulators may ultimately determine to not include all or a portion of future transactions in rates. The realization of any of these situations could adversely impact the project as well as our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. OPERATING RISK. Transporting and storing natural gas involves numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs, some or all of which may not be fully covered by insurance, and which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards inherent in the businesses of local gas distribution and storage, including:. • earthquakes, floods, storms, landslides and other adverse weather conditions and hazards;. • leaks or other losses of natural gas or other chemicals or compounds as a result of the malfunction of equipment or facilities;. • damages from third parties, including construction, farm and utility equipment or other surface users;. • operator errors;. • negative performance by our storage reservoirs that could cause us to fail to meet expected or forecasted operational levels or contractual commitments to our customers;. • problems maintaining, or the malfunction of, pipelines, wellbores and related equipment and facilities that form a part of the infrastructure that is critical to the operation of our gas distribution and storage facilities;. • collapse of underground storage caverns;. • operating costs that are substantially higher than expected;. • migration of natural gas through faults in the rock or to some area of the reservoir where existing wells cannot drain the gas effectively resulting in loss of the gas;. • blowouts (uncontrolled escapes of gas from a pipeline or well) or other accidents, fires and explosions; and. • risks and hazards inherent in the drilling operations associated with the development of the gas storage facilities and/or wells.. 16. Table of Contents. These risks could result in personal injury or loss of human life, damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution or other environmental damage, breaches of our contractual commitments, and may result in curtailment or suspension of our operations, which in turn could lead to significant costs and lost revenues. Further, because our pipeline, storage and distribution facilities are in or near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, and industrial sites, any loss of human life or adverse financial outcomes resulting from such events could be significant. Additionally, we may not be able to maintain the level or types of insurance we desire, and the insurance coverage we do obtain may contain large deductibles or fail to cover certain hazards or cover all potential losses. The occurrence of any operating risks not covered by insurance could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. BUSINESS CONTINUITY RISK. We may be adversely impacted by local or national disasters, pandemic illness, terrorist activities, including cyber-attacks or data breaches, and other extreme events to which we may not be able to promptly respond.. Local or national disasters, pandemic illness, terrorist activities, including cyber-attacks and data breaches, and other extreme events are a threat to our assets and operations. Companies in critical infrastructure industries may face a heightened risk due to exposure to acts of terrorism, including physical and security breaches of our information technology infrastructure in the form of cyber-attacks.  These attacks could target or impact our technology or mechanical systems that operate our distribution, transmission or storage facilities and result in a disruption in our operations, damage to our system and inability to meet customer requirements. In addition, the threat of terrorist activities could lead to increased economic instability and volatility in the price of natural gas or other necessary commodities that could affect our operations. Threatened or actual national disasters or terrorist activities may also disrupt capital or bank markets and our ability to raise capital or obtain debt financing, or impact our suppliers or our customers directly. Local disaster or pandemic illness could result in part of our workforce being unable to operate or maintain our infrastructure or perform other tasks necessary to conduct our business. A slow or inadequate response to events may have an adverse impact on operations and earnings. We may not be able to maintain sufficient insurance to cover all risks associated with local and national disasters, pandemic illness, terrorist activities and other events.  Additionally, large scale natural disasters or terrorist attacks could destabilize the insurance industry making insurance we do have unavailable, which could increase the risk that an event could adversely affect our operations or financial results.. HOLDING COMPANY DIVIDEND RISK.  If we were to reorganize as a holding company, the holding company would depend on its operating subsidiaries to meet financial obligations and the ability of the holding company to pay dividends on its common stock would be dependent on the receipt of dividends and other payments from its subsidiaries.. If we were to implement a holding company structure, NW Natural common stock would be converted or exchanged into shares of a holding company with the only significant assets being the stock of its operating subsidiaries, including NW Natural. NW Natural and its current subsidiaries, which would become NW Holding's direct and indirect subsidiaries, are separate and distinct legal entities, managed by their own boards of directors, and, as is currently the case, would have no obligation to pay any amounts to their respective shareholders, whether through dividends, loans or other payments. The ability of these companies to pay dividends or make other distributions on their common stock is now, and would continue to be, subject to, among other things: their results of operations, net income, cash flows and financial condition, as well as the success of their business strategies and general economic and competitive conditions; the prior rights of holders of existing and future debt securities and any future preferred stock issued by those companies; and any applicable legal restrictions.. In addition, the ability of the holding company's subsidiaries to pay upstream dividends and make other distributions would be subject to applicable state law and regulatory restrictions. Under the OPUC and WUTC regulatory approvals for the holding company formation, if NW Natural ceases to comply with credit and capital structure requirements approved by the OPUC and WUTC, it will not, with limited exceptions, be permitted to pay dividends to the holding company. Under the OPUC and WUTC orders authorizing the Company to form a holding company, NW Natural may not pay dividends or make distributions to the holding company if NW Natural's credit ratings and common equity levels fall below specified ratings and levels. If NW Natural's long-term secured credit ratings are below A- for S&P and A3 for Moody's, dividends may be issued so long as NW Natural's common equity is 45% or above. If NW Natural's long-term secured credit ratings are below BBB for S&P and Baa2 for Moody's, dividends may be issued so long as NW Natural's common equity is 46% or above. Dividends may not be issued if NW Natural's long-term secured credit ratings fall to BB+ or below for S&P or Ba1 or below for Moody's, or if NW Natural's common equity is below 44%. In each case, with the common equity level to be determined on a preceding or projected 13-month basis.. HOLDING COMPANY PRIORITY RISK.  If a holding company structure is completed, the holding company's ability to pay dividends on its common stock would be subject to the prior rights of holders of its indebtedness and preferred stock, if any.. If we were to form a holding company, it may from time to time issue debt securities and preferred stock, as well as additional shares of holding company common stock, in order to make capital contributions to one or more of its subsidiaries or for other reasons, although NW Natural would likely continue to issue its own debt securities and may issue preferred stock. The holding company could also guarantee indebtedness of non-utility subsidiaries. The issuance or guaranty of securities by the holding company would not be subject to the prior approval of the state utility commissions. The consolidated enterprise could thus be more highly leveraged than NW Natural and its current subsidiaries. The holding company's ability to pay dividends. 17. Table of Contents. on its common stock would be subject to the prior rights of holders of the holding company's debt securities (including guarantees) and preferred stock, if any.. In addition, the right of the holding company, as a shareholder, to receive assets of any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries upon the subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization would be subject to the prior rights of the holders of existing and future debt securities and preferred stock issued by such subsidiaries, and, as in the case of dividends, the rights of holders of the holding company common stock to receive any such assets would be subject to the prior rights of the holders of the holding company's debt securities (including guarantees) and preferred stock.. HOLDING COMPANY DIVERSIFICATION RISK.  The holding company may invest in unregulated activities that may prove to be riskier than the current activities of NW Natural, which could result in losses and adversely affect the holding company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The holding company structure may allow us greater opportunities to invest in regulated and unregulated businesses. These investments may involve greater risk than an investment in NW Natural. If losses are incurred in unregulated businesses, they will likely not be recoverable through utility rates and they could adversely affect the holding company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RISK. The cost of providing pension and postretirement healthcare benefits is subject to changes in pension assets and liabilities, changing employee demographics and changing actuarial assumptions, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Until we closed the pension plans to new hires, which for non-union employees was in 2006 and for union employees was in 2009, we provided pension plans and postretirement healthcare benefits to eligible full-time utility employees and retirees. Most of our current utility employees were hired prior to these dates, and therefore remain eligible for these plans. Our cost of providing such benefits is subject to changes in the market value of our pension assets, changes in employee demographics including longer life expectancies, increases in healthcare costs, current and future legislative changes, and various actuarial calculations and assumptions. The actuarial assumptions used to calculate our future pension and postretirement healthcare expense may differ materially from actual results due to significant market fluctuations and changing withdrawal rates, wage rates, interest rates and other factors. These differences may result in an adverse impact on the amount of pension contributions, pension expense or other postretirement benefit costs recorded in future periods. Sustained declines in equity markets and reductions in bond rates may have a material adverse effect on the value of our pension fund assets and liabilities. In these circumstances, we may be required to recognize increased contributions and pension expense earlier than we had planned to the extent that the value of pension assets is less than the total anticipated liability under the plans, which could have a. negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. WORKFORCE RISK. Our business is heavily dependent on being able to attract and retain qualified employees and maintain a competitive cost structure with market-based salaries and employee benefits, and workforce disruptions could adversely affect our operations and results.. Our ability to implement our business strategy and serve our customers is dependent upon our continuing ability to attract and retain talented professionals and a technically skilled workforce, and being able to transfer the knowledge and expertise of our workforce to new employees as our largely older workforce retires. We expect that a significant portion of our workforce will retire within the current decade, which will require that we attract, train and retain skilled workers to prevent loss of institutional knowledge or skills gap.  Without an appropriately skilled workforce, our ability to provide quality service and meet our regulatory requirements will be challenged and this could negatively impact our earnings. Additionally, within our utility segment, a majority of our workers are represented by the OPEIU Local No.11 AFL-CIO, and are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that extends to November 30, 2019. Disputes with the union representing our employees over terms and conditions of their agreement could result in instability in our labor relationship and work stoppages that could impact the timely delivery of gas and other services from our utility and storage facilities, which could strain relationships with customers and state regulators and cause a loss of revenues. Our collective bargaining agreements may also limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce, and our ability to change work rules and practices and implement other efficiency-related improvements to successfully compete in today's challenging marketplace, which may negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.. LEGISLATIVE, COMPLIANCE AND TAXING AUTHORITY RISK. We are subject to governmental regulation, and compliance with local, state and federal requirements, including taxing requirements, and unforeseen changes in or interpretations of such requirements could affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities. We are required to comply with a variety of laws and regulations and to obtain authorizations, permits, approvals and certificates from governmental agencies in various aspects of our business. Significant changes in federal, state, or local governmental leadership can accelerate or amplify changes in existing laws or regulations, or the manner in which they are interpreted or enforced. For example, the U.S. Presidential Administration has made numerous leadership changes at federal administrative agencies since the 2016 U.S. Presidential election. Moreover, the U.S. Congress and the U.S. Presidential Administration may make substantial changes to fiscal, tax, regulation and other federal policies. The U.S. Presidential Administration has called for significant changes to U.S. fiscal policies, U.S. trade, healthcare, immigration, foreign, and government regulatory policy. To the extent the U.S. Congress or U.S. Presidential Administration implements changes to U.S. policy, those. 18. Table of Contents. changes may impact, among other things, the U.S. and global economy, international trade and relations, unemployment, immigration, corporate taxes, healthcare, the U.S. regulatory environment, inflation and other areas. Although we cannot predict the impact, if any, of these changes to our business, they could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Until we know what policy changes are made and how those changes impact our business and the business of our competitors over the long term, we will not know if, overall, we will benefit from them or be negatively affected by them.. Though we cannot predict the changes in laws, regulations, or enforcement that are likely as a result of these transitions, we expect there to be a number of significant changes. We cannot predict with certainty the impact of any future revisions or changes in interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations. Additionally, any failure to comply with existing or new laws and regulations could result in fines, penalties or injunctive measures that could affect operating assets. For example, under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, the FERC has civil authority under the Natural Gas Act to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1 million per day for each violation. In addition, as the regulatory environment for our industry increases in complexity, the risk of inadvertent noncompliance may also increase. Changes in regulations, the imposition of additional regulations, and the failure to comply with laws and regulations could negatively influence our operating environment and results of operations.. Additionally, changes in federal, state or local tax laws and their related regulations, or differing interpretations or enforcement of applicable law by a federal, state or local taxing authority, could result in substantial cost to us and negatively affect our results of operations. Tax law and its related regulations and case law are inherently complex and dynamic. Disputes over interpretations of tax laws may be settled with the taxing authority in examination, upon appeal or through litigation. Our judgments may include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken that may be subject to challenge by taxing authorities. Changes in laws, regulations or adverse judgments and the inherent difficulty in quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions may negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.. In this regard, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 was approved by the U.S. Congress on December 20, 2017 and signed into law by the U.S. President on December 22, 2017. This legislation makes significant changes to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. Such changes include a reduction in the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% and limitations on certain corporate deductions and credits, among other changes. Certain of these changes may negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We expect that the elimination of bonus depreciation may increase taxes in 2018 and 2019, which may have an adverse effect on cash flows during this period. In addition, there is uncertainty as to how our regulators will reflect the impact of the legislation in rates. The resulting ratemaking treatment may negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.. SAFETY REGULATION RISK. We may experience increased federal, state and local regulation of the safety of our systems and operations, which could adversely affect our operating costs and financial results.. The safety and protection of the public, our customers and our employees is and will remain our top priority. We are committed to consistently monitoring and maintaining our distribution system and storage operations to ensure that natural gas is acquired, stored and delivered safely, reliably and efficiently. Given recent high-profile natural gas explosions, leaks and accidents in other parts of the country involving both distribution systems and storage facilities, we anticipate that the natural gas industry may be the subject of even greater federal, state and local regulatory oversight. For example, in 2016, the Protecting our Infrastructure of Pipelines and Enhancing Safety Act (PIPES Act) was signed into law increasing regulations for natural gas storage pipelines and underground storage facilities. Similarly, in 2016, California passed legislation directing the Department of Oil, Gas and Geothermal Resources (DOGGR) to develop regulations affecting gas storage operations. DOGGR has issued proposed regulations which we expect to go into effect within the first half of 2018. As currently written, these regulations require mechanical integrity testing and implementation of gas flow limited to tubing only for all wells at Gill Ranch within the next 7 years.. We intend to work diligently with industry associations and federal and state regulators to seek to ensure compliance with these and other new laws. We expect there to be increased costs associated with compliance, and those costs could be significant. If these costs are not recoverable in our customer rates, they could have a negative impact on our operating costs and financial results.. HEDGING RISK. Our risk management policies and hedging activities cannot eliminate the risk of commodity price movements and other financial market risks, and our hedging activities may expose us to additional liabilities for which rate recovery may be disallowed, which could result in an adverse impact on our operating revenues, costs, derivative assets and liabilities and operating cash flows.. Our gas purchasing requirements expose us to risks of commodity price movements, while our use of debt and equity financing exposes us to interest rate, liquidity and other financial market risks. In our Utility segment, we attempt to manage these exposures with both financial and physical hedging mechanisms, including our gas reserves transactions which are hedges backed by physical gas supplies. While we have risk management procedures for hedging in place, they may not always work as planned and cannot entirely eliminate the risks associated with hedging. Additionally, our hedging activities may cause us to incur additional expenses to obtain the hedge. We do not hedge our entire interest rate or commodity cost exposure, and the unhedged exposure will vary over time. Gains or losses experienced through hedging activities, including carrying costs, generally flow through the PGA mechanism or are recovered in future general rate cases. However, the hedge transactions we enter into for the utility are subject to a prudence review by the OPUC and WUTC, and, if found imprudent, those expenses may be, and have been. 19. Table of Contents. previously, disallowed, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, our actual business requirements and available resources may vary from forecasts, which are used as the basis for our hedging decisions, and could cause our exposure to be more or less than we anticipated. Moreover, if our derivative instruments and hedging transactions do not qualify for regulatory deferral and we do not elect hedge accounting treatment under generally accepted accounting standards, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. We also have credit-related exposure to derivative counterparties. Counterparties owing us money or physical natural gas commodities could breach their obligations. Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements to meet our normal business requirements. In that event, our financial results could be adversely affected. Additionally, under most of our hedging arrangements, any downgrade of our senior unsecured long-term debt credit rating could allow our counterparties to require us to post cash, a letter of credit or other form of collateral, which would expose us to additional costs and may trigger significant increases in borrowing from our credit facilities if the credit rating downgrade is below investment grade.  Further, based on current interpretations, we are not considered a \"swap dealer\" or \"major swap participant\" in 2017, so we are exempt from certain requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act.  If we are unable to claim this exemption, we could be subject to higher costs for our derivatives activities.. INABILITY TO ACCESS CAPITAL MARKET RISK. Our inability to access capital, or significant increases in the cost of capital, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability to obtain adequate and cost effective short-term and long-term financing depends on maintaining investment grade credit ratings as well as the existence of liquid and stable financial markets. Our businesses rely on access to capital and bank markets, including commercial paper, bond and equity markets, to finance our operations, construction expenditures and other business requirements, and to refund maturing debt that cannot be funded entirely by internal cash flows. Disruptions in capital markets could adversely affect our ability to access short-term and long-term financing. Our access to funds under committed credit facilities, which are currently provided by a number of banks, is dependent on the ability of the participating banks to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity. Disruptions in the bank or capital financing markets as a result of economic uncertainty, changing or increased regulation of the financial sector, or failure of major financial institutions could adversely affect our access to capital and negatively impact our ability to run our business and make strategic investments.. A negative change in our current credit ratings, particularly below investment grade, could adversely affect our cost of borrowing and access to sources of liquidity and capital.. Such a downgrade could further limit our access to borrowing under available credit lines. Additionally, downgrades in our current credit ratings below investment grade could cause additional delays in accessing the capital markets by the utility while we seek supplemental state regulatory approval, which could hamper our ability to access credit markets on a timely basis. A credit downgrade could also require additional support in the form of letters of credit, cash or other forms of collateral and otherwise adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. REPUTATIONAL RISKS. Customers', legislators', and regulators' opinions of us are affected by many factors, including system reliability and safety, protection of customer information, rates, media coverage, and public sentiment. To the extent that customers, legislators, or regulators have or develop a negative opinion of us, our financial positions, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.. A number of factors can affect customer satisfaction including: service interruptions or safety concerns due to failures of equipment or facilities or from other causes, and our ability to promptly respond to such failures; our ability to safeguard sensitive customer information; and the timing and magnitude of rate increases, and volatility of rates. Customers', legislators', and regulators' opinions of us can also be affected by media coverage, including the proliferation of social media, which may include information, whether factual or not, that damages our brand and reputation.. If customers, legislators, or regulators have or develop a negative opinion of us and our utility services, this could result in increased regulatory oversight and could affect the returns on common equity we are allowed to earn. Additionally, negative opinions about us could make it more difficult for us to achieve favorable legislative or regulatory outcomes. Negative opinions could also result in sales volumes reductions or increased use of other sources of energy. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Risks Related Primarily to Our Local Utility Business. REGULATORY ACCOUNTING RISK. In the future, we may no longer meet the criteria for continued application of regulatory accounting practices for all or a portion of our regulated operations.. If we could no longer apply regulatory accounting, we could be required to write off our regulatory assets and precluded from the future deferral of costs not recovered through rates at the time such amounts are incurred, even if we are expected to recover these amounts from customers in the future.. GAS PRICE RISK. Higher natural gas commodity prices and volatility in the price of gas may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.. The cost of natural gas is affected by a variety of factors, including weather, changes in demand, the level of production and availability of natural gas supplies, transportation constraints, availability and cost of pipeline. 20. Table of Contents. capacity, federal and state energy and environmental regulation and legislation, natural disasters and other catastrophic events, national and worldwide economic and political conditions, and the price and availability of alternative fuels. In our utility segment, the cost we pay for natural gas is generally passed through to our customers through an annual PGA rate adjustment. If gas prices were to increase significantly, it would raise the cost of energy to our utility customers, potentially causing those customers to conserve or switch to alternate sources of energy. Significant price increases could also cause new home builders and commercial developers to select alternative energy sources. Decreases in the volume of gas we sell could reduce our earnings, and a decline in customers could slow growth in our future earnings. Additionally, because a portion of any (10% or 20%) difference between the estimated average PGA gas cost in rates and the actual average gas cost incurred is recognized as current income or expense, higher average gas costs than those assumed in setting rates can adversely affect our operating cash flows, liquidity and results of operations. Additionally, notwithstanding our current rate structure, higher gas costs could result in increased pressure on the OPUC or the WUTC to seek other means to reduce rates, which also could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.. Higher gas prices may also cause us to experience an increase in short-term debt and temporarily reduce liquidity because we pay suppliers for gas when it is purchased, which can be in advance of when these costs are recovered through rates. Significant increases in the price of gas can also slow our collection efforts as customers experience increased difficulty in paying their higher energy bills, leading to higher than normal delinquent accounts receivable resulting in greater expense associated with collection efforts and increased bad debt expense.. CUSTOMER GROWTH RISK. Our utility margin, earnings and cash flow may be negatively affected if we are unable to sustain customer growth rates in our local gas distribution segment.. Our utility margins and earnings growth have largely depended upon the sustained growth of our residential and commercial customer base due, in part, to the new construction housing market, conversions of customers to natural gas from other energy sources and growing commercial use of natural gas. The last recession slowed new construction. While construction has resumed and the multi-family composition has been higher than its pre-recession pace, overall construction has not returned to the pre-recession pace. Insufficient growth in these markets, for economic, political or other reasons could result in an adverse long-term impact on our utility margin, earnings and cash flows.. RISK OF COMPETITION. Our gas distribution business is subject to increased competition which could negatively affect our results of operations.. In the residential and commercial markets, our gas distribution business competes primarily with suppliers of electricity, fuel oil, and propane. In the industrial market, we compete with suppliers of all forms of energy. Competition. among these forms of energy is based on price, efficiency, reliability, performance, market conditions, technology, environmental impacts and public perception.. Technological improvements in other energy sources such as heat pumps, batteries or other alternative technologies could erode our competitive advantage. If natural gas prices rise relative to other energy sources, or if the cost, environmental impact or public perception of such other energy sources improves relative to natural gas, it may negatively affect our ability to attract new customers or retain our existing residential, commercial and industrial customers, which could have a negative impact on our customer growth rate and results of operations.. RELIANCE ON THIRD PARTIES TO SUPPLY NATURAL GAS RISK. We rely on third parties to supply the natural gas in our distribution segment, and limitations on our ability to obtain supplies, or failure to receive expected supplies for which we have contracted, could have an adverse impact on our financial results.. Our ability to secure natural gas for current and future sales depends upon our ability to purchase and receive delivery of supplies of natural gas from third parties. We, and in some cases, our suppliers of natural gas do not have control over the availability of natural gas supplies, competition for those supplies, disruptions in those supplies, priority allocations on transmission pipelines, or pricing of those supplies. Additionally, third parties on whom we rely may fail to deliver gas for which we have contracted. If we are unable or are limited in our ability to obtain natural gas from our current suppliers or new sources, we may not be able to meet our customers' gas requirements and would likely incur costs associated with actions necessary to mitigate services disruptions, both of which could significantly and negatively impact our results of operations.. SINGLE TRANSPORTATION PIPELINE RISK. We rely on a single pipeline company for the transportation of gas to our service territory, a disruption of which could adversely impact our ability to meet our customers' gas requirements.. Our distribution system is directly connected to a single interstate pipeline, which is owned and operated by Northwest Pipeline. The pipeline's gas flows are bi-directional, transporting gas into the Portland metropolitan market from two directions: (1) the north, which brings supplies from the British Columbia and Alberta supply basins; and (2) the east, which brings supplies from the Alberta and the U.S. Rocky Mountain supply basins. If there is a rupture or inadequate capacity in the pipeline, we may not be able to meet our customers' gas requirements and we would likely incur costs associated with actions necessary to mitigate service disruptions, both of which could significantly and negatively impact our results of operations.. WEATHER RISK. Warmer than average weather may have a negative impact on our revenues and results of operations.. We are exposed to weather risk primarily in our utility segment. A majority of our volume is driven by gas sales to space heating residential and commercial customers during the winter heating season. Current utility rates are based on. 21. Table of Contents. an assumption of average weather. Warmer than average weather typically results in lower gas sales. Colder weather typically results in higher gas sales. Although the effects of warmer or colder weather on utility margin in Oregon are expected to be mitigated through the operation of our weather normalization mechanism, weather variations from normal could adversely affect utility margin because we may be required to purchase more or less gas at spot rates, which may be higher or lower than the rates assumed in our PGA. Also, a portion of our Oregon residential and commercial customers (usually less than 10%) have opted out of the weather normalization mechanism, and 11% of our customers are located in Washington where we do not have a weather normalization mechanism. These effects could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. CUSTOMER CONSERVATION RISK. Customers' conservation efforts may have a negative impact on our revenues.. An increasing national focus on energy conservation, including improved building practices and appliance efficiencies may result in increased energy conservation by customers. This can decrease our sales of natural gas and adversely affect our results of operations because revenues are collected mostly through volumetric rates, based on the amount of gas sold. In Oregon, we have a conservation tariff which is designed to recover lost utility margin due to declines in residential and small commercial customers' consumption. However, we do not have a conservation tariff in Washington that provides us this margin protection on sales to customers in that state.. RELIANCE ON TECHNOLOGY RISK. Our efforts to integrate, consolidate and streamline our operations have resulted in increased reliance on technology, the failure or security breach of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Over the last several years we have undertaken a variety of initiatives to integrate, standardize, centralize and streamline our operations. These efforts have resulted in greater reliance on technological tools such as: an enterprise resource planning system, an automated dispatch system, an automated meter reading system, a customer information system, a web-based ordering and tracking system, and other similar technological tools and initiatives. The failure of any of these or other similarly important technologies, or our inability to have these technologies supported, updated, expanded or integrated into other technologies, could adversely impact our operations. We take precautions to protect our systems, but there is no guarantee that the procedures we have implemented to protect against unauthorized access to secured data and systems are adequate to safeguard against all security breaches. Our utility could experience breaches of security pertaining to sensitive customer, employee, and vendor information maintained by the utility in the normal course of business, which could adversely affect the utility's reputation, diminish customer confidence, disrupt operations, materially increase the costs we incur to protect against these risks, and subject us to possible financial liability or increased regulation or litigation, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Furthermore, we rely on information technology systems in our operations of our distribution and storage operations. There are various risks associated with these systems, including, hardware and software failure, communications failure, data distortion or destruction, unauthorized access to data, misuse of proprietary or confidential data, unauthorized control through electronic means, programming mistakes and other inadvertent errors or deliberate human acts. In particular, cyber security attacks, terrorism or other malicious acts could damage, destroy or disrupt all of our business systems. Any failure of information technology systems could result in a loss of operating revenues, an increase in operating expenses and costs to repair or replace damaged assets. As these potential cyber security attacks become more common and sophisticated, we could be required to incur costs to strengthen our systems or obtain specific insurance coverage against potential losses.. Risks Related Primarily to Our Gas Storage Businesses. LONG-TERM LOW OR STABILIZATION OF GAS PRICE RISK. Any significant stabilization of natural gas prices or long-term low gas prices could have a negative impact on the demand for our natural gas storage services, which could adversely affect our financial results.. Storage businesses benefit from price volatility, which impacts the level of demand for services and the rates that can be charged for storage services. Largely due to the abundant supply of natural gas made available by hydraulic fracturing techniques, natural gas prices have dropped significantly to levels that are near historic lows. If prices and volatility remain low or decline further, then the demand for storage services, and the prices that we will be able to charge for those services, may decline or be depressed for a prolonged period of time. Prices below the costs to operate the storage facility could result in a decision to shut-in all or a portion of the facility. A sustained decline in these prices or a shut-in of all or a portion of the facility could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. NATURAL GAS STORAGE COMPETITION RISK. Increasing competition in the natural gas storage business could reduce the demand for our storage services and drive prices down for storage, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our natural gas storage segment competes primarily with other storage facilities and pipelines. Natural gas storage is an increasingly competitive business, with the ability to expand or build new storage capacity in California, the U.S. Rocky Mountains and elsewhere in the United States and Canada. Increased competition in the natural gas storage business could reduce the demand for our natural gas storage services, drive prices down for our storage business, and adversely affect our ability to renew or replace existing contracts at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 22. Table of Contents. IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS RISK. Additional impairments of the value of long-lived assets could have a material effect on our financial condition, or results of operations.. We review the carrying value of long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. The determination of recoverability is based on the undiscounted net cash flows expected to result from the operation of such assets. Projected cash flows depend on the future operating costs and projected revenues associated with the asset, storage pricing, the ability to contract with higher value customers, and the future market and price for gas storage over the remaining life of the asset. We recognized a $192.5 million impairment of long-lived assets at the Gill Ranch Facility as of December 31, 2017. Further changes in revenues, operating costs, or a decision to sell the facility may result in an additional impairment of long-lived assets at the Gill Ranch Facility. Additionally, we review our other long-lived assets to determine if an impairment analysis is necessary. Any impairment charge taken with respect to our long-lived assets could be material and could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. THIRD-PARTY PIPELINE RISK. Our gas storage businesses depend on third-party pipelines that connect our storage facilities to interstate pipelines, the failure or unavailability of which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our gas storage facilities are reliant on the continued operation of a third-party pipeline and other facilities that provide delivery options to and from our storage facilities. Because we do not own all of these pipelines, their operations are not within our control. If the third-party pipeline to which we are connected were to become unavailable for current or future withdrawals or injections of natural gas due to repairs, damage to the infrastructure, lack of capacity or other reasons, our ability to operate efficiently and satisfy our customers' needs could be compromised, thereby potentially having an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows."
