[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Our operations and financial results are subject to a high degree of risk. These risks include, but are not limited to, those described below, each of which may have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The realization of any of these risks could have a significant adverse effect on our reputation, business, including our financial condition, results of operations and growth, which we refer to collectively in this section as our business, and ability to accomplish our strategic objectives. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose part or all of your investment.. Risks Related to the Development, Regulatory Approval and Commercialization of our Current and Future Product Candidates. We will need substantial additional funding. If we are unable to raise capital when needed, we would be forced to delay, reduce, terminate or eliminate our product development programs, or our commercialization efforts.. We expect to continue to incur substantial expenses in connection with our ongoing activities, including conducting clinical trials of our clinical-stage product candidates, and conducting activities necessary to pursue regulatory approval for our product candidates in the future. In addition, if we obtain regulatory approval of any of our product candidates, we expect to incur significant commercialization expenses for product sales, marketing, manufacturing and distribution. Furthermore, we expect to continue to incur substantial costs associated with operating as a public company. Accordingly, we will need to obtain substantial additional funding in connection with our continuing operations. Adequate funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to raise capital when needed or on attractive terms, we would be forced to delay, reduce, terminate or eliminate our product development programs, or our commercialization efforts.. As of December 31, 2017, we had cash and cash equivalents of $2.5 million and negative working capital of $(4.7) million. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, together with the net proceeds of our public offering in January 2018, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements into the second quarter of 2019 and will allow us to execute our ongoing and planned near-term development activities, as described in the section entitled \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Overview\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Although we successfully raised approximately $35.2 million in net proceeds from our January 2018 Public Offering, we anticipate that we will need substantial additional funding to continue our operating activities and make further advancements in each of our drug development programs, as described in the section entitled \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Overview\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Further advancement of our development programs is dependent upon our ability to access additional capital through non-dilutive sources, including partnerships, collaborations, licensing, grants or other strategic relationships or through the issuance of debt or equity securities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional capital on terms acceptable to us, on a timely basis or at all. A. 23. failure to obtain sufficient funds on acceptable terms when needed could cause us to alter or reduce our planned operating activities, including but not limited to delaying planned product candidate development activities, to conserve our cash and cash equivalents. Such actions could delay development timelines and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and market valuation. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $160.2 million and there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern if we do not secure adequate additional financing.. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including:. •  the initiation, progress, timing and costs of our non-clinical development, clinical trials and our analysis of the results of such trials for our clinical-stage product candidates;. •  the scope, progress, results and costs of preclinical development, laboratory testing and clinical trials for our other pre-clinical or future product candidates;. •  the extent to which we exercise any developmental or commercialization rights we may have under any arrangements with collaborators or partners;. •  costs, timing and outcome of regulatory review of our product candidates;. •  costs of commercialization activities, including product sales, marketing, manufacturing and distribution, for any of our product candidates for which we receive regulatory approval;. •  costs of preparing, filing and prosecuting patent applications, maintaining and enforcing our intellectual property rights and defending intellectual property-related claims;. •  the extent to which we acquire or invest in other businesses, products and technologies;. •  our ability to obtain government or other third-party funding for the development of our product candidates;. •  the costs associated with our securities litigation, and the outcome of that litigation;. •  the occurrence and timing of potential development and regulatory milestones achieved by Sato, our licensee for SB204 in certain topical dosage forms in Japan;. •  our ability to establish additional partnering and collaborations on favorable terms, if at all; and. •  revenue, if any, received from commercial sales of our product candidates, should any of our product candidates be approved by the FDA or a similar regulatory authority outside the United States.. Conducting preclinical testing and clinical trials is a time-consuming, expensive and uncertain process that takes years to complete, and we may never generate the necessary data or results required to obtain regulatory approval and achieve product sales. In addition, our product candidates, if approved, may not achieve commercial success. Our commercial revenues, if any, will be derived from sales of products that we do not expect to be commercially available for several years, if at all. Accordingly, we will need to continue to rely on additional financing to achieve our business objectives. Additional financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, we currently have outstanding warrants to purchase approximately 10 million shares of our common stock. We may find it more difficult to raise additional equity capital if it should be needed for our business while the warrants are outstanding.. Drug development involves a lengthy and expensive process with uncertain outcomes, and results from earlier studies and trials may not be predictive of future trial results.. Clinical testing is expensive and can take many years to complete, and its outcome is inherently uncertain. Failure or delay can occur at any time during the clinical trial process. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier preclinical studies or clinical trials. These setbacks have been caused by, among other things, preclinical findings made while clinical trials were underway and safety or efficacy observations made in clinical trials, including previously unreported adverse events.. 24. The results of preclinical studies and early clinical trials of our product candidates may not be predictive of the results of later-stage clinical trials. Product candidates in later stages of clinical trials may fail to show the required safety profile or meet the efficacy endpoints despite having progressed through preclinical studies and initial clinical trials. Notwithstanding any potential promising results in earlier testing, we cannot be certain that we will not face similar setbacks. Even if our clinical development is completed for any of our product candidates, the results may not be sufficient to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates.. For example, the top-line results of our two identically designed Phase 3 pivotal clinical trials for SB204 revealed that SB204 demonstrated statistical significance on all three co-primary endpoints in one trial, but demonstrated statistical significance on only one of the three co-primary endpoints in the other trial. Following an in-depth analysis of the full data sets from our two identically designed Phase 3 pivotal clinical trials for SB204, including post hoc analyses in pooled and sub populations, and after receiving feedback from the FDA in September 2017, we believe it is necessary to conduct additional Phase 3 program development activities for SB204 prior to NDA submission. As described in the section entitled \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Overview - Product Candidate Outlook - SB204\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we expect to obtain additional FDA input and guidance during a Type C meeting scheduled in the second quarter of 2018. We believe further FDA input from the upcoming meeting will facilitate (i) finalization of our Phase 3 strategy and (ii) conclusion and execution of a strategic arrangement that will facilitate execution of our strategy. We cannot assure you that the FDA's feedback, if any, and the resulting clinical trial design will achieve trial results that are sufficient to support an FDA submission for our acne product candidate, or regulatory approval of that product, or that we will be able to complete a strategic arrangement, whether through the contemplated arrangement or another one, to finance and support the development necessary to achieve these objectives.. Delay or termination of planned clinical trials for our product candidates could result in unplanned expenses or significantly adversely impact our commercial prospects with respect to, and ability to generate revenues from, such product candidates.. We may experience delays in completing ongoing trials and initiating planned trials and we cannot be certain whether these trials or any other future clinical trials for our product candidates will begin on time, need to be redesigned, enroll an adequate number of patients on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. Clinical trials can be delayed or terminated for a variety of reasons, including delays or failures related to:. •  the FDA disagreeing as to the design or implementation of our clinical trials;. •  reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations, or CROs clinical trial sites and prospective strategic partners, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs, trial sites and partners;. •  obtaining institutional review board, or IRB, approval at each site;. •  the safety profiles of our product candidates;. •  recruiting suitable patients to participate in a trial;. •  having patients complete a trial or return for post-treatment follow-up;. •  clinical sites deviating from trial protocol;. •  addressing patient safety concerns that arise during the course of a trial;. •  adding a sufficient number of clinical trial sites;. •  manufacturing sufficient quantities of product candidate for use in clinical trials; or. •  changes to our financial priorities or insufficient capital available to fund clinical trials.. We could also encounter delays if a clinical trial is suspended or terminated by us, by the IRBs of the institutions in which such trials are being conducted, by the Data Safety Monitoring Board, or DSMB, for such trial or by the FDA or other regulatory authorities. Such authorities may suspend or terminate a clinical trial due to a number of factors, including failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols,. 25. inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial site by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold, unforeseen safety issues or adverse events, failure to demonstrate a benefit from using a drug, changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions or lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. Even if we complete our trials on schedule, inconsistent trial results may result in a delay in our completion of an overall program for a product candidate.. If we experience delays in the completion, or termination, of any clinical trials for our product candidates, we may experience increased costs, have difficulty raising capital through non-dilutive or dilutive sources, and have to slow down our product candidate development and regulatory approval process timelines. Further, the commercial prospects of our product candidates may be harmed and our ability to generate product revenues from any of these product candidates could be delayed or not realized at all. Any of these occurrences may significantly harm our business, financial condition and prospects. In addition, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of our product candidates.. In addition, our ongoing or future preclinical studies may not prove successful in demonstrating proof-of concept, or may show adverse toxicological findings, and even if successful may not necessarily predict that subsequent clinical trials will show the requisite safety and efficacy of our product candidates.. If we encounter difficulties enrolling patients in our clinical trials, our clinical development activities could be delayed or otherwise adversely affected.. The timely completion of clinical trials in accordance with their protocols depends on, among other things, our ability to enroll a sufficient number of patients who remain in the trial until its conclusion. We may experience difficulties in patient enrollment in our clinical trials for a variety of reasons. The enrollment of patients depends on many factors, including:. •  the patient eligibility criteria defined in the protocol;. •  the size of the patient population required for analysis of the trial's primary endpoints;. •  the proximity of patients to trial sites;. •  the design of the trial;. •  our ability to recruit clinical trial investigators with the appropriate competencies and experience;. •  clinicians' and patients' perceptions as to the potential advantages of the product candidate being studied in relation to other available therapies, including any new drugs that may be approved for the indications we are investigating;. •  our ability to obtain patient consents; and. •  the risk that patients enrolled in clinical trials will drop out of the trials before completion.. In addition, our clinical trials will compete for the recruitment of patients with other clinical trials for product candidates that are in the same therapeutic areas as our product candidates, and this competition will reduce the number and types of patients available to us, because some patients who might have opted to enroll in our trials may instead opt to enroll in a trial being conducted by one of our competitors.. Delays in patient enrollment may result in increased costs, which would adversely impact our statement of operations and cash flows or may affect the timing or outcome of the planned clinical trials, which could prevent completion of these trials and adversely affect our ability to advance the development of our product candidates and hurt our competitive position.. 26. We may expend our limited resources to pursue a particular product candidate or indication and fail to capitalize on product candidates or indications that may be more profitable or for which there is a greater likelihood of success.. Because we have limited financial and managerial resources, we intend to focus on developing product candidates for specific indications that we identify as most likely to succeed, in terms of their potential both to gain regulatory approval and to achieve commercialization. As a result, we may forego or delay pursuit of opportunities with other product candidates or in other indications with greater commercial potential.. Our resource allocation decisions may cause us to fail to capitalize on viable commercial products or profitable market opportunities. Our spending on current and future research and development programs and product candidates for specific indications may not yield any commercially viable product candidates. If we do not accurately evaluate the commercial potential or target market for a particular product candidate, we may relinquish valuable rights to that product candidate through collaboration, licensing or other royalty arrangements in cases in which it would have been more advantageous for us to retain sole development and commercialization rights to the product candidate.. Our product candidates may pose safety issues, cause adverse events or have other properties that could delay or prevent their regulatory approval, limit the commercial profile of an approved label, or result in significant negative consequences following marketing approval, if any.. We, any partner with whom we may collaborate in the future or the FDA may suspend, delay, require modifications to or terminate our clinical trials at any time, for various reasons, including the discovery of serious or unexpected toxicities or other safety issues experienced by trial participants.. In addition, adverse events caused by our product candidates could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in a more restrictive label or the delay or denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities. Results of our clinical trials could reveal a high and unacceptable severity and prevalence of adverse events or unexpected characteristics. To date, patients treated with our product candidates have experienced drug-related cutaneous tolerability observations, including dryness, scaling, burning, erythema, itching, pain or irritation, and adverse events, including irritation and contact dermatitis.. If safety issues or unacceptable adverse events arise in the development of our product candidates, we, the FDA, the IRBs at the institutions in which our trials are conducted, or the DSMB could suspend or terminate our clinical trials or the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities could order us to cease clinical trials or deny approval of our product candidates for any or all targeted indications. Treatment-related adverse events could also affect patient recruitment or the ability of enrolled patients to complete the trial or result in potential product liability claims. In addition, these adverse events may not be appropriately recognized or managed by the treating medical staff.. Any of the foregoing events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the particular product candidate, if approved, and may result in the loss of significant revenues to us, which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations and business.. We may rely on strategic relationships for the further development and commercialization of our product candidates, and if we are unable to enter into such relationships, or if such relationships are unsuccessful, we may be unable to realize the potential economic benefit of those product candidates.. We are exploring alternative pathways for continued development of our product candidates. For example, we are currently exploring and intend to advance certain clinical-stage product candidates through partnerships, collaborations or other strategic relationships, including the contemplated arrangement associated with our acne product candidate as described in the section entitled \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Overview - Product Candidate Outlook - SB204\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete a strategic arrangement, whether through the contemplated arrangement or another one, to finance and support the necessary development for our acne product candidate. If we are unable to enter into strategic relationships on terms that are beneficial to us, or at all, we may not have sufficient capital to continue developing or commercialize our product candidates that are outside of our. 27. current core focus. Even if we enter into such a strategic relationship, we may have to relinquish a significant portion of the future economic value of the underlying product candidate in connection with the applicable transaction and may be limited in our ability, or unable, to recover such value.. Our ability to enter into successful strategic relationships for the continued development of one or more of our product candidates may be impaired by several factors, including, among others, that:. •  we will face significant competition in seeking appropriate strategic partners, and the negotiation process is likely to be time-consuming and complex;. •  strategic partners may fail to secure sufficient capital resources from their investors in amounts required to fund planned development activities;. •  strategic partners may not devote the necessary resources to complete development activities because of limited financial or scientific resources or the belief that other product candidates may have a higher likelihood of obtaining approval or potentially generate a greater return on investment;. •  strategic partners may fail to properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights, where applicable, or may use proprietary information in a way that may expose us to potential loss or liability;. •  we are likely to have limited control over decisions of strategic partners that may result in significant delays or the termination of development of our product candidates;. •  strategic partners may develop a product that competes, directly or indirectly, with our product candidates, or may choose to pursue alternative technologies, including those of our competitors; and. •  disputes between us and our strategic partners concerning the research, development or commercialization of our product candidates or our arrangements with respect to our product candidates could lead to ligation or arbitration that would be costly and detract time from development.. Further, if a strategic relationship terminates or is otherwise unsuccessful, we may need to seek out and establish an alternative arrangement. This may not be possible, or we may not be able to do so on terms which are acceptable to us, in which case, it may be necessary for us to cease the development of the applicable product candidate or candidates, or conduct the remaining clinical development on our own and with our own funds.. The regulatory approval processes of the FDA are lengthy, time-consuming and inherently unpredictable, and if we are ultimately unable to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, our business will be substantially harmed.. The time required to obtain approval by the FDA is unpredictable but typically takes many years following the commencement of clinical trials and depends upon numerous factors, including the substantial discretion of the regulatory authorities. In addition, approval policies, regulations, or the type and amount of clinical data necessary to gain approval may change during the course of a product candidate's clinical development and may vary among jurisdictions. We have not obtained regulatory approval for any product candidate and it is possible that none of our existing product candidates or any product candidates we may seek to develop in the future will ever obtain regulatory approval. Neither we nor any future collaborator is permitted to market any of our product candidates in the United States until we receive regulatory approval of an NDA from the FDA.. Prior to obtaining approval to commercialize a product candidate in the United States or abroad, we or our collaborators must demonstrate with substantial evidence from well-controlled clinical trials, and to the satisfaction of the FDA, that such product candidates are safe and effective for their intended uses. Results from preclinical studies and clinical trials can be interpreted in different ways. Even if we believe the preclinical or clinical data for our product candidates are promising, such data may not be sufficient to support approval by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. For example, there are multiple methodologies for handling missing data and other statistical considerations to take into account that the FDA may utilize when analyzing the robustness of any data set during NDA review. The FDA may also require us to conduct additional preclinical studies or clinical trials for our product candidates either prior to or post-approval, or it may object to elements of our clinical development program.. 28. The FDA can delay, limit or deny approval of our product candidates or require us to conduct additional preclinical or clinical testing or abandon a program for many reasons, including:. •  the FDA's disagreement with the design or implementation of our clinical trials;. •  negative or ambiguous results from our clinical trials;. •  results that may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA for approval;. •  serious and unexpected drug-related adverse events experienced by participants in our clinical trials or by individuals using drugs similar to our product candidates;. •  our inability to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA that our product candidates are safe and effective for the proposed indication;. •  the FDA's disagreement with the interpretation of data from preclinical studies or clinical trials;. •  our inability to demonstrate that the clinical and other benefits of our product candidates outweigh any safety or other perceived risks;. •  the FDA's requirement for additional preclinical studies or clinical trials;. •  the FDA's disagreement regarding the formulation, labeling or the specifications of our product candidates;. •  the FDA's failure to approve the manufacturing processes or facilities of third-party manufacturers with which we contract; or. •  the potential for approval policies or regulations of the FDA to significantly change in a manner rendering our clinical data insufficient for approval.. Of the large number of drugs in development, only a small percentage successfully complete the FDA approval process and become commercialized. The lengthy approval process as well as the unpredictability of outcomes from future clinical trials may result in our failing to obtain regulatory approval to market our product candidates.. Even if we eventually complete clinical testing and receive approval of an NDA or foreign marketing application for our product candidates, the FDA may grant approval contingent on the performance of costly additional clinical trials, including Phase 4 clinical trials, or the implementation of a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, which may be required to ensure safe use of the drug after approval. The FDA also may approve a product candidate for a more limited indication or patient population than we originally requested, and the FDA may not approve the labeling that we believe is necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of a product candidate. Any delay in obtaining, or inability to obtain, applicable regulatory approval would delay or prevent commercialization of that product candidate.. Even if we make a submission under a special protocol assessment, or SPA, from the FDA, there is no guarantee that we will obtain agreement from the FDA on the SPA. Even if we do obtain the FDA's agreement, an SPA would not guarantee approval of any of our product candidates or any other particular outcome from regulatory review.. We currently do not have an SPA in place with respect to any of our product candidates. However, we may, in the future, decide to make a submission for an SPA for any of our current or future product candidates.. The FDA's SPA process is designed to facilitate the FDA's review and approval of drugs by allowing the FDA to evaluate, among other things, the proposed design and size of clinical trials that are intended to form the primary basis for determining a drug product's efficacy. Upon specific request by a clinical trial sponsor, the FDA will evaluate the protocol and respond to a sponsor's questions regarding, among other things, primary efficacy endpoints, trial conduct and data analysis. The FDA aims to complete SPA reviews within 45 days of receipt of the request. The FDA ultimately assesses whether the protocol design and planned analysis of the trial are acceptable to support regulatory approval of the product candidate with respect to the effectiveness of the indication studied. All agreements and disagreements between the FDA and the sponsor regarding an SPA must be clearly documented in an SPA letter or the minutes of a meeting between the sponsor and the FDA.. 29. Even if the FDA agrees to the SPA, an SPA agreement does not guarantee approval of a product candidate. Even if the FDA agrees to the design, execution, and analysis proposed in protocols reviewed under the SPA process, the FDA may revoke or alter its agreement in certain circumstances. In particular, an SPA agreement is not binding on the FDA if public health concerns emerge that were unrecognized at the time of the SPA agreement, other new scientific concerns regarding product safety or efficacy arise, the sponsor company fails to comply with the agreed upon trial protocols, or the relevant data, assumptions or information provided by the sponsor in a request for the SPA change or are found to be false or omit relevant facts. In addition, even after an SPA agreement is finalized, the SPA agreement may be modified, and such modification will be deemed binding on the FDA review division, except under the circumstances described above, if the FDA and the sponsor agree in writing to modify the protocol and if generally such modification is intended to improve the study. The FDA retains significant latitude and discretion in interpreting the terms of the SPA agreement and the data and results from any study that is the subject of the SPA agreement.. Moreover, if the FDA revokes or alters its agreement under the SPA, or interprets the data collected from the clinical trial differently than we do, the FDA may not deem the data sufficient to support an application for regulatory approval.. Regulatory approval of our product candidates by foreign regulatory authorities may be delayed or denied. We may be subject to pricing controls imposed by foreign governments and regulatory authorities.. We may seek regulatory approval of our product candidates from foreign regulatory authorities in the future. Such regulatory authorities may impose additional regulations and guidelines that differ in form and substance from those imposed by their counterparts in the United States and with which we are more familiar. Accordingly, the regulatory approval of our product candidates in those foreign jurisdictions could be delayed, limited or denied altogether. This could limit the scope of or prevent the commercialization of our products in the future and adversely affect our financial performance.. Further, in some countries, the pricing of pharmaceutical prescriptions is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a product candidate. In addition, there can be considerable pressure by governments and other stakeholders on prices and reimbursement levels, including as part of cost containment measures. Political, economic and regulatory developments may further complicate pricing negotiations, and pricing negotiations may continue after coverage and reimbursement have been obtained. Reference pricing used by various countries and parallel distribution or arbitrage between low-priced and high-priced countries can further reduce prices. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our product candidate to other available therapies, which is time-consuming and costly. If coverage and reimbursement of our product candidates are unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our business could be harmed.. We may face product liability exposure, and if successful claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability if our insurance coverage for those claims is inadequate.. We face an inherent risk of product liability as a result of the clinical testing of our product candidates and will face an even greater risk if we commercialize any products. This risk exists even if a product is approved for commercial sale by the FDA and manufactured in facilities licensed and regulated by the FDA or an applicable foreign regulatory authority. Our product candidates are designed to affect important bodily functions and processes. Any adverse events, manufacturing defects, misuse or abuse associated with our product candidates could result in injury to a patient or even death. We cannot offer any assurance that we will not face product liability suits in the future, nor can we assure you that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover our liability under any such cases.. 30. In addition, a liability claim may be brought against us even if our product candidates merely appear to have caused an injury. Product liability claims may be brought against us by consumers, healthcare providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling or otherwise coming into contact with our product candidates, among others. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims we will incur substantial liabilities and reputational harm. In addition, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in:. •  withdrawal of clinical trial participants;. •  decreased enrollment rates of clinical trial participants;. •  termination of clinical trial sites or entire trial programs;. •  the inability to commercialize our product candidates;. •  decreased demand for our product candidates;. •  impairment of our business reputation;. •  product recall or withdrawal from the market or labeling, marketing or promotional restrictions;. •  substantial costs of any related litigation or similar disputes;. •  distraction of management's attention and other resources from our primary business;. •  substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants against us that may not be covered by insurance; or. •  loss of revenue.. We have obtained product liability insurance coverage, with an aggregate limit of $5.0 million, for clinical trials. Large judgments have been awarded in class action or individual lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated adverse events. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all of our product liability related expenses or losses and may not cover us for any expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost, in sufficient amounts or upon adequate terms to protect us against losses due to product liability. We will need to increase our product liability coverage if any of our product candidates receive regulatory approval, which will be costly, and we may be unable to obtain this increased product liability insurance on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to decline and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash, negatively impact our statement of operations and could harm our financial condition.. If we receive regulatory approval to market any of our product candidates, our relationships with healthcare providers, customers and third-party payors, as well as our general business operations, may be subject to applicable anti-kickback, fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations, and failure to comply with such regulations could expose us to penalties including criminal sanctions, civil penalties, exclusion from government healthcare programs, contractual damages, reputational harm and diminished profits and future earnings.. Healthcare providers, customers and third-party payors will play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of any product candidates for which we may obtain marketing approval. Our future arrangements with third-party payors, healthcare providers and customers and our general operations may expose us to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we market, sell and distribute any product candidates for which we obtain marketing approval. Restrictions under applicable federal and state healthcare laws and regulations may include the following:. •  the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons and entities from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward, or in return for, either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service, for which payment may be made, in whole or in part, under a federal healthcare program such as Medicare and Medicaid. A person or entity does not. 31. need to have actual knowledge of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation.. •  the federal false claims and civil monetary penalties laws, including the civil False Claims Act, which impose criminal and civil penalties, including through civil whistleblower or qui tam actions, against individuals or entities for knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, to the federal government, claims for payment that are false or fraudulent or knowingly making a false statement to avoid, decrease or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government; in addition, the government may assert that a claim including items and services resulting from a violation of the U.S. federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the False Claims Act;. •  the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which imposes criminal and civil liability for, among other things, executing or attempting to execute a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters. Similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation;. •  HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH, and their implementing regulations, which also imposes obligations, including mandatory contractual terms, on certain types of people and entities with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information;. •  the federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which requires manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children's Health Insurance Program (with certain exceptions) to report annually to the government information related to certain payments or other ''transfers of value'' made to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors) and teaching hospitals, and requires applicable manufacturers to report annually to the government ownership and investment interests held by the physicians described above and their immediate family members and payments or other ''transfers of value'' to such physician owners; and. •  analogous state and foreign laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws, which may apply to sales or marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by non-governmental third-party payors, including private insurers; state laws that require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government; state laws that require drug manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers or report marketing expenditures and pricing information; and state and foreign laws governing the privacy and security of health information in some circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts.. Efforts to ensure that our internal operations and business arrangements with third parties comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations will involve substantial costs. It is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that our business practices may not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law involving applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the statutory exceptions and safe harbors available under such laws, it is possible that some of our business activities, including our relationships with physicians and other healthcare providers, some of whom will recommend, purchase or prescribe our products, could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws.. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other governmental laws and regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment, exclusion of products from government funded healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, disgorgement, contractual damages, reputational harm, diminished profits and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. If any of the physicians or other healthcare providers or entities with whom we expect to do business is found to be not in compliance with applicable laws, they may be subject to criminal, civil or administrative. 32. sanctions, including exclusions from government funded healthcare programs, which would adversely impact our statement of operations and cash flows.. Even if our current product candidates or any future product candidates obtain regulatory approval, they may fail to achieve the broad degree of physician and patient adoption and use necessary for commercial success.. The commercial success of any of our current or future product candidates, if approved, will depend significantly on the broad adoption and use of the resulting product by physicians and patients for approved indications. Our product candidates may not be commercially successful. The degree and rate of physician and patient adoption of our current or future product candidates, if approved, will depend on a number of factors, including:. •  the clinical indications for which the product is approved and patient demand for approved products that treat those indications;. •  the effectiveness of our product as compared to other available therapies;. •  the availability of coverage and adequate reimbursement from managed care plans and other healthcare payors for any of our product candidates that may be approved;. •  the cost of treatment with our product candidates in relation to alternative treatments and willingness to pay for the product, if approved, on the part of patients;. •  acceptance by physicians, major operators of clinics and patients of the product as a safe and effective treatment;. •  physician and patient willingness to adopt a new therapy over other available therapies to treat approved indications;. •  overcoming any biases physicians or patients may have toward particular therapies for the treatment of approved indications;. •  patient satisfaction with the results and administration of our product candidates and overall treatment experience;. •  the willingness of patients to pay for certain of our product candidates relative to other discretionary items, especially during economically challenging times;. •  the revenue and profitability that our product candidates may offer a physician as compared to alternative therapies;. •  the prevalence and severity of adverse events;. •  limitations or warnings contained in the FDA-approved labeling for our product candidates;. •  any FDA requirement to undertake a REMS;. •  the effectiveness of our sales, marketing and distribution efforts;. •  adverse publicity about our product candidates or favorable publicity about competitive products; and. •  potential product liability claims.. If any of our current or future product candidates are approved for use but fail to achieve the broad degree of physician and patient adoption necessary for commercial success, our operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected, which may delay, prevent or limit our ability to generate revenue and continue our business.. 33. Our product candidates may cause side effects which could delay or prevent their commercialization.. If any of our product candidates receives marketing approval, and we or other companies developing other nitric oxide-based therapies, including KNOW Bio, which has the right to develop our current nitric oxide-based technology in non-dermatological and non-oncoviral-mediated indications, later identify undesirable side effects caused by such products, a number of potentially significant negative consequences could result, including:. •  regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product;. •  we may be required to recall a product or change the way such product is administered to patients;. •  additional restrictions may be imposed on the marketing of the particular product or the manufacturing processes for the product or any component thereof;. •  regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, such as a ''black box'' warning or a contraindication;. •  we may be required to implement a REMS or create a Medication Guide outlining the risks of such adverse events for distribution to patients;. •  we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients;. •  the product may become less competitive; and. •  our reputation may suffer.. We expect to educate and train medical personnel so they know how to use our product candidates to understand their potential side effect profiles. Inadequate training in recognizing or managing the potential side effects of our product candidates could result in patient injury.. If we are unable to establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities for our product candidates or any future product candidate that receives regulatory approval, we may not be successful in commercializing those product candidates, if approved.. We do not currently have a sales, marketing or distribution infrastructure in place. To achieve commercial success for any product candidate for which we may obtain marketing approval, we will need to establish a sales, marketing and distribution framework internally or through a commercial partner or other form of strategic relationship for commercialization. In the future, we may build a focused sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure to market any of our product candidates in the United States. There are risks involved with establishing our own sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. For example, recruiting and training a sales force is expensive and time-consuming and could delay market uptake. If the commercial launch of a product candidate for which we recruit a sales force and establish marketing capabilities is delayed or does not occur for any reason, we would have prematurely or unnecessarily incurred these commercialization expenses. This may be costly, and our investment would be lost if we cannot retain or reposition our sales and marketing personnel.. Factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize our products on our own include:. •  our inability to recruit, train and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel;. •  the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to physicians or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe any future products;. •  the lack of complementary products to be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and. •  unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating an independent sales and marketing organization.. If we are unable to establish our own sales, marketing and distribution capabilities and enter into arrangements with third parties to perform these services, this could, in turn, decrease our revenue and our profitability. In addition, we may not be successful in entering into arrangements with third parties to sell, market and distribute our product candidates or may be unable to do so on terms that are favorable to us. We may not have adequate control over such. 34. third parties, and any of them may fail to devote the necessary resources and attention to sell and market our products effectively. If we do not establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities successfully, either on our own or in collaboration with third parties, we will not be successful in commercializing our product candidates.. Additionally, we have entered into an exclusive license agreement with Sato relating to SB204 for the treatment of acne vulgaris in Japan, and we expect to continue to evaluate strategic partnerships to commercialize our dermatology products in select international markets. We may not be sufficiently familiar or have the requisite resources to penetrate international markets where some of our competitors have already achieved broad recognition and have established commercialization strategies in place. Moreover, we may not succeed in targeting healthcare providers, including physicians, who may not be familiar with our product candidates.. Our product candidates, if approved, will face significant competition and our failure to effectively compete may prevent us from achieving significant market penetration.. The pharmaceutical industry is characterized by rapidly advancing technologies, intense competition and a strong emphasis on developing proprietary therapeutics. Numerous companies are engaged in the development, patenting, manufacturing and marketing of healthcare products competitive with those that we are developing. We face competition from a number of sources, such as pharmaceutical companies, generic drug companies, biotechnology companies and academic and research institutions, many of which have greater financial resources, marketing capabilities, sales forces, manufacturing capabilities, research and development capabilities, clinical trial expertise, intellectual property portfolios, experience in obtaining patents and regulatory approvals for product candidates and other resources than we do. Some of the companies that offer competing products also have a broad range of other product offerings, large direct sales forces and long-term customer relationships with our target physicians, which could inhibit our market penetration efforts. In addition, certain of our product candidates, if approved, may compete with other products, including over-the-counter treatments, for a share of some patients' discretionary budgets and for physicians' attention within their clinical practices.. Many pharmaceutical companies currently offer products and continue to develop additional alternative product candidates and technologies for indications similar to those targeted by our product candidates, as described in the section entitled \"Business - Competition\" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The markets in which we compete, particularly the market for dermatological therapies, are competitive and are characterized by significant technological development and new product introduction. We anticipate that, if we obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates, we will face significant competition from other approved therapies. If approved, our product candidates may also compete with unregulated, unapproved and off-label treatments. To compete successfully in the marketplace, we will have to demonstrate that the relative cost, safety and efficacy of our approved products, if any, provide an attractive alternative to existing and other new therapies. Such competition could lead to reduced market share for our product candidates and contribute to downward pressure on the pricing of our product candidates.. Due to less stringent regulatory requirements in certain foreign countries, there are many more products and procedures available for use in those international markets than are approved for use in the United States. In certain international markets, there are also fewer limitations on the claims that our competitors can make about the effectiveness of their products and the manner in which they can market them. As a result, we expect to face more competition in these markets than in the United States.. Even if we obtain marketing approval for any product candidates, the products may become subject to unfavorable third-party coverage or reimbursement policies, which would harm our business.. The success of our product candidates, if approved, depends on the availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement from government authorities and third-party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations. Patients who are provided medical treatment for their conditions generally rely on third-party payors to reimburse all or part of the costs associated with their treatment. Adequate coverage and reimbursement from governmental healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and commercial payors is critical to product acceptance.. Government authorities and third-party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, decide which drugs and treatments they will cover and the amount of reimbursement that will be provided. Coverage. 35. decisions may depend on clinical and economic standards that disfavor new products when more established or lower cost therapeutic alternatives are already available or subsequently become available. Third-party payors may refuse to include a particular branded product in their formularies or lists of medications for which third-party payors provide coverage and reimbursement, or otherwise restrict patient access through formulary controls or otherwise to a branded product when a less costly generic equivalent or alternative is available. Coverage may be more limited than the purposes for which a product is approved by the FDA or similar regulatory authorities outside the United States.. Assuming that we obtain coverage for a given product, the resulting reimbursement rates might not be adequate to cover our costs, including research, development, manufacture, sale and distribution, or achieve or sustain profitability, or may require co-payments that patients find unacceptably high. Patients are unlikely to use our products unless coverage is provided and reimbursement is adequate to cover a significant portion of the cost of our product candidates. Increasingly, third-party payors are requiring that pharmaceutical companies provide them with predetermined discounts from list prices and are challenging the prices charged for products. There is significant uncertainty related to insurance coverage and reimbursement of newly approved products. It is difficult to predict at this time what third-party payors will decide with respect to the coverage and reimbursement for our product candidates. In the United States, no uniform policy of coverage and reimbursement for products exists among third-party payors. Therefore, coverage and reimbursement for a product can differ significantly from payor to payor. As a result, obtaining and maintaining coverage and reimbursement for a product from a government or other third-party payor is a time-consuming and costly process that could require us to provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost-effectiveness data for the use of our products to each payor separately, with no assurance that adequate coverage and reimbursement will be applied consistently or obtained in the first instance.. Governmental and third-party payors in the United States and abroad are developing increasingly sophisticated methods of controlling healthcare costs. Further, we believe that future coverage and reimbursement will likely be subject to increased restrictions both in the United States and in international markets. Third-party coverage and reimbursement for our product candidates for which we may receive regulatory approval may not be available, limited, or adequate in either the United States or international markets.. Risks Related to our Financial Results. We have incurred significant losses since our inception. We expect to incur losses for at least the next several years and may never achieve or maintain profitability.. Since inception, we have incurred significant operating losses. Our net loss was $28.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, $59.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 and $37.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $160.2 million. As a result of our historical operating losses and expected future negative cash flows from operations, we have concluded that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Similarly, the report of our independent registered public accounting firm on our December 31, 2017 financial statements includes an explanatory paragraph indicating that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. To date, we have financed our operations primarily through the sale of our securities in public offerings, private placements of our preferred stock, convertible notes and proceeds from government research contracts and grants. We also received an upfront payment following the execution of a license agreement for the exclusive right to develop, use and sell SB204 in certain topical dosage forms in Japan for the treatment of acne vulgaris. We have devoted substantially all of our efforts to research and development, including clinical trials. We have not completed development of any product candidates. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses and operating losses for at least the next several years. We anticipate that we will continue to incur substantial expenses if and as we:. •  continue to conduct clinical trials for our existing clinical stage product candidates;. •  initiate clinical trials for other future product candidates and new chemical entities;. •  seek regulatory approvals for our product candidates that complete clinical trials;. 36. •  qualify contract manufacturing organizations for the manufacture of drug product for the commercial launch of our product candidates;. •  establish a sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure to commercialize products for which we may obtain regulatory approval;. •  maintain, expand and protect our intellectual property portfolio;. •  continue our research and development efforts;. •  exercise any development or commercialization rights we may have under any arrangements with collaborators or partners;. •  hire additional clinical, quality control, scientific and management personnel;. •  add executive, operational, financial and management information systems and personnel;. •  incur costs associated with our securities litigation, and the outcome of that litigation; and. •  incur additional legal, accounting and other expenses in operating as a public company.. To become and remain profitable, we must develop and eventually commercialize a product or products with significant market potential. This development and commercialization will require us to be successful in a range of challenging activities, including successfully completing clinical trials of our product candidates, obtaining regulatory approval for these product candidates, and marketing and selling those products for which we may obtain regulatory approval. We are only in the preliminary stages of some of these activities. We may never succeed in these activities and may never generate revenues that are significant or large enough to achieve profitability.. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our failure to become and remain profitable would decrease the value of the company and could impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business, maintain our research and development efforts or continue our operations. A decline in the value of our company could also cause you to lose all or part of your investment.. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss, or NOL, carryforwards may be limited.. As of December 31, 2017, we had NOL carryforwards available to reduce future taxable income, if any, for federal and state income tax purposes of $140.5 million and $142.4 million, respectively. If not utilized, the federal and state NOL carryforwards will begin expiring in 2028 and 2023 for federal and state tax purposes, respectively. Our ability to utilize NOL carryforward amounts to reduce taxable income in future years may be limited for various reasons, including if future taxable income is insufficient to recognize the full benefit of such NOL carryforward amounts prior to their expiration. Additionally, our ability to fully utilize these U.S. tax assets can also be adversely affected by \"ownership changes\" within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, in a three-year period. Any ownership change is generally defined as a greater than 50% increase in equity ownership by \"5% stockholders,\" as that term is defined for purposes of Section 382 of the Code in any three-year period. Although we have not completed a full analysis under Section 382, our initial public offering, or IPO, combined with our public offering in January 2018 may have resulted in an ownership change as defined in Section 382. Further, we may experience an ownership change in the future as a result of further shifts in our stock ownership. As a result, if we earn net taxable income, our ability to use our pre-change NOL carryforwards to offset U.S. federal taxable income may be subject to limitations, which could potentially result in increased future tax liability to us. In addition, at the state level, there may be periods during which the use of NOL carryforwards is suspended or otherwise limited, which could accelerate or permanently increase state taxes owed.. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights to our technologies or product candidates.. Until such time, if ever, as we can generate substantial product revenues, we expect to finance our cash needs through a combination of equity offerings, debt financings, government contracts, government and other third-party grants or other third-party funding from research, development and manufacturing service contracts, marketing and distribution arrangements and other collaborations, strategic alliances and licensing arrangements. We will require. 37. substantial funding to fund our operating expenses and other activities. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, or if we agree to grant warrants or issue other equity to our strategic partners in connection with collaboration arrangements, our existing stockholders' ownership interests will be diluted, and the terms of these securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect our existing stockholders' rights. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends.. We have collaborated and intend to collaborate further with third parties for the development and commercialization of our product candidates.  If we raise additional funds through government or other third-party funding, marketing and distribution arrangements or other collaborations, strategic alliances or licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies, future revenue streams, research programs or product candidates or to grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us.  For example, we have entered into an exclusive license agreement with Sato relating to SB204 for the treatment of acne vulgaris in Japan.. The issuance of shares upon exercise of our outstanding warrants and options may cause substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and reduce the trading price of our common stock.. We have outstanding and exercisable warrants and options that if exercised may result in dilution to the interests of other stockholders and may reduce the trading price of our common stock. We presently have 10 million warrants outstanding and exercisable with an exercise price of $4.66 per share. In addition, we had approximately 0.7 million outstanding and exercisable options as of December 31, 2017 with a weighted average exercise price of $7.76 per share.. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm on our 2017 consolidated financial statements contains an explanatory paragraph regarding going concern, and we will need additional financing to execute our business plan, to fund our operations and to continue as a going concern.. Since inception, we have experienced recurring operating losses and negative cash flows and we expect to continue to generate operating losses and consume significant cash resources in the foreseeable future. These conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern without additional financing. As a result, our independent registered public accounting firm included an explanatory paragraph in its report on our 2017 consolidated financial statements with respect to this uncertainty. Substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern may materially and adversely affect the price per share of our common stock and we may have a more difficult time obtaining financing.. We have prepared our consolidated financial statements on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. Our 2017 consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities that may result from the outcome of this uncertainty.. We have a limited operating history and no history of commercializing drugs, which may make it difficult for you to evaluate the success of our business to date and to assess our future viability.. We commenced operations in 2006, and our operations to date have been largely focused on developing our Nitricil technology and platform of product candidates. We have not yet demonstrated our ability to obtain regulatory approvals, manufacture a drug on a commercial scale, or arrange for a third-party to do so on our behalf, or conduct sales and marketing activities necessary for successful commercialization. Consequently, any predictions you make about our future success or viability may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a longer operating history or a history of successfully developing and commercializing drugs.. We may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other known or unknown factors in achieving our business objectives. We will need to transition at some point from a company with a development focus to a company capable of supporting commercial activities. We may not be successful in such a transition.. 38. We may be adversely affected by natural disasters and other catastrophic events, and by man-made problems such as terrorism, that could disrupt our business operations and our business continuity and disaster recovery plans may not adequately protect us from a serious disaster.. Our corporate headquarters are located in Morrisville, North Carolina, near major hurricane and tornado zones. If a disaster, power outage or other event occurred that prevented us from using all or a significant portion of our headquarters, that damaged critical infrastructure, such as enterprise financial systems, manufacturing resource planning or enterprise quality systems, or that otherwise disrupted operations, it may be difficult or, in certain cases, impossible for us to continue our business for a substantial period of time. Our manufacturers' and suppliers' facilities are located in multiple locations, where other natural disasters or similar events, such as blizzards, tornadoes, fires, explosions or large-scale accidents or power outages, could severely disrupt their operations. In addition, acts of terrorism and other geo-political unrest could cause disruptions in our business or the businesses of our collaborators, manufacturers or the economy as a whole. All of the aforementioned risks may be further increased if we do not implement a disaster recovery plan or our collaborators' or manufacturers' disaster recovery plans prove to be inadequate. Any of the above could result in delays in the regulatory approval, manufacture, distribution or commercialization of our product candidates.. Risks Related to Manufacturing and our Reliance on Third Parties. We may not be successful in continuing to establish development and commercialization collaborations, which could adversely affect, and potentially prohibit, our ability to develop our product candidates.. We may continue to enter into strategic partnerships with third parties to develop and commercialize our product candidates. There can be no assurance that we will be able to establish such collaborations on favorable terms, if at all, or that our current or future collaborative arrangements will be successful. If we are unable to reach successful agreements with suitable collaborators for our product candidates, we would face significant incremental costs, we may be required to limit the scope and number of our product candidates we can commercially develop or the territories in which we commercialize them or we might fail to commercialize products or programs for which a suitable collaborator cannot be found. Our current and future collaboration partners may not dedicate sufficient resources to the development and commercialization of our product candidates or may otherwise fail in their development and commercialization due to factors beyond our control. If we fail to achieve successful collaborations, we may incur additional product development and commercialization expenses and our operating results and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. If we breach or fail to comply with any provision of a collaboration agreement, a collaborator may have the right to terminate, in whole or in part, such agreement or to seek damages. Some of our collaboration agreements are complex and involve sharing of certain data, know-how and intellectual property rights amongst the parties. Additionally, these potential collaborators may not accept the transfer of critical methods and processes in order for development and commercialization work for our drug product candidates to take place.  Our collaborators could interpret certain provisions differently than we do, which could lead to unexpected or inadvertent disputes with our collaborators. Any one of our collaborators could breach covenants or restrictions in our agreements, leading us into disputes and potential breaches of our agreements with other collaborators.. We rely on third parties to conduct preclinical studies and clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize any of our product candidates.. We currently do not have the ability to independently conduct preclinical studies that comply with the regulatory requirements known as good laboratory practice, or GLP, requirements. We also do not currently have the ability to independently conduct any clinical trials. The FDA and regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions require us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practice, or GCP, requirements for conducting, monitoring, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials, in order to ensure that the data and results are scientifically credible and accurate and that the trial subjects are adequately informed of the potential risks of participating in clinical trials. We rely on medical institutions, clinical investigators, contract laboratories and other third parties, such as CROs, to conduct GLP-compliant preclinical studies and GCP-compliant clinical trials on our product candidates properly and on time. While we will have agreements governing their activities, we control only certain aspects of their activities and have limited influence over their actual performance. The third parties with whom we contract for execution of our GLP preclinical studies and our GCP clinical trials play a. 39. significant role in the conduct of these studies and trials and the subsequent collection and analysis of data. These third parties are not our employees and, except for restrictions imposed by our contracts with such third parties, we have limited ability to control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. Although we rely on these third parties to conduct our GLP-compliant preclinical studies and GCP-compliant clinical trials, we remain responsible for ensuring that each of our GLP preclinical studies and GCP clinical trials is conducted in accordance with its investigational plan and protocol and applicable laws and regulations, and our reliance on the third parties does not relieve us of our regulatory responsibilities. In addition, if any of our third parties terminate their involvement with us for any reason, we may not be able to enter into similar arrangements with alternative third parties within a short period of time or do so on commercially reasonable terms.. Many of the third parties with whom we contract may also have relationships with other commercial entities, including our competitors, for whom they may also be conducting clinical trials or other drug development activities that could harm our competitive position. In addition, since the number of qualified clinical investigators is limited, we expect to conduct some of our clinical trials at the same clinical trial sites that some of our competitors use, which will reduce the number of patients who are available for our clinical trials in such clinical trial site. If the third parties conducting our GLP preclinical studies or our GCP clinical trials do not perform their contractual duties or obligations, experience work stoppages, do not meet expected deadlines, terminate their agreements with us or need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to their failure to adhere to our clinical trial protocols, GLPs or GCPs, or for any other reason, we may need to enter into new arrangements with alternative third parties. This could be difficult, costly or impossible, and our preclinical studies or clinical trials may need to be extended, delayed, terminated or repeated. As a result, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval in a timely fashion, or at all, for the applicable product candidate, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product candidates would be harmed, our costs could increase, and our ability to generate revenues could be delayed.. In addition, principal investigators for our clinical trials may serve as scientific advisors or consultants to us from time to time and may receive cash or equity compensation in connection with such services. If these relationships and any related compensation result in perceived or actual conflicts of interest, or the FDA concludes that the financial relationship may have affected the interpretation of the trial, the integrity of the data generated at the applicable clinical trial site may be questioned and the utility of the clinical trial itself may be jeopardized, which could result in the delay or rejection by the FDA of any NDA we submit. Any such delay or rejection could prevent us from commercializing our future product candidates.. Unexpected results in the analysis of raw materials, the API or drug product or problems with the quality systems supporting analytical work could adversely affect our development and commercialization timelines and result in increased costs of our development programs.. We currently rely on third-parties to test most of the raw materials necessary to produce the API and drug products we require. It is a regulatory requirement that raw materials are tested and there are a limited number of suppliers for testing these raw materials.  There may be a need to assess alternate suppliers to prevent a possible disruption of the supply of these raw materials for the manufacture of API or drug product.  Additionally, the analytical equipment used by these third-parties must be maintained and operational.  With future third-party testing of raw materials, we do not have any control over the process or timing of their testing work.  Additionally, if the results do not meet specifications, then obtaining additional raw materials may jeopardize the start or overall conduct of preclinical studies and clinical trials which could result in the delay of developing or commercializing our future product candidates.. We currently perform internal tests to ensure the API and drug product meets our quality specifications. The analytical equipment we use to perform these tests must be maintained, qualified and operational. If there are equipment problems or if the results of the analytical testing do not meet our quality specifications, then manufacturing additional API or drug product may increase costs and may jeopardize the start or overall conduct of preclinical studies and clinical trials which could result in the delay of developing or commercializing our future product candidates.. 40. Unexpected delays in our ability to manufacture our NVN1000 API, or any other Nitricil NCEs, in our facility, for support of our development activities could adversely affect our development and commercialization timelines and result in increased costs of our development programs.. We currently manufacture the NVN1000 API, one of our Nitricil NCEs, for all of our product candidates at our facility in Morrisville, North Carolina. We have a limited number of personnel that have experience in drug substance manufacturing and who possess the expertise necessary to manufacture NVN1000. If our facility were to sustain significant damage, or if we had significant attrition in our manufacturing personnel, or if we have substantial problems with our equipment, our manufacturing operations could be delayed for an extended period of time. If our existing inventories of API are depleted, we may be unable to supply necessary materials for preclinical studies and clinical trials, causing longer timelines, increased costs and delays in the development and commercialization of drug products, if approved by the FDA or other regulatory authorities.. Further, the FDA requires API to be manufactured in accordance with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP. Our facilities have been audited for cGMP compliance. In addition, our NCE manufacturing processes and operating conditions have been evaluated and tested by qualified vendors to ensure a safe operating environment. These tests include raw materials and product handling, process chemistry, air quality and waste disposal and containment. However, if our facilities are found to be noncompliant with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be required to take remedial actions, causing further delays and increased costs.. Failure to qualify and contract with third party manufacturers or failure of those third parties to provide us with sufficient quantities of API at acceptable quality levels or prices, could adversely impact our development and commercialization of any of our product candidates or result in our breaching our obligations to others.. While we currently manufacture the API in our own facilities, we intend to identify and qualify third parties to manufacture the API for our own use and intend to rely on them for API that we may provide to others for development and commercial purposes. The facilities used by our future contract manufacturers to manufacture our API must be approved by the FDA pursuant to inspections that will be conducted after we submit our NDA to the FDA. We do not control the manufacturing process of, and are completely dependent on, our contract manufacturing partners for compliance with the regulatory requirements, known as cGMP. If our contract manufacturers cannot successfully manufacture material that conforms to our specifications and the strict regulatory requirements of the FDA or others, they will not be able to secure or maintain regulatory approval for their manufacturing facilities. In addition, we have no control over the ability of our contract manufacturers to maintain adequate quality control, quality assurance and qualified personnel. If the FDA or a comparable foreign regulatory authority does not approve these facilities for the manufacture of our API or if it withdraws any such approval in the future, we may need to find alternative manufacturing facilities, which would significantly impact our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval for or market our product candidates, if approved.. We currently manufacture clinical trial materials internally and we intend to qualify and contract with third parties to manufacture clinical trial materials and commercial supplies of any approved product candidates. If we do not have sufficient quantities of clinical trial materials at acceptable quality levels, it could adversely impact our development and commercialization of any of our product candidates or result in our breaching our obligations to others.. We currently have the infrastructure and capability internally to manufacture clinical trial materials.  However, we currently lack the resources and the capability to manufacture any of our product candidates on a commercial scale. While we currently manufacture the clinical trial materials in our own facilities, we intend to identify and qualify third parties to manufacture the finished drug product for our own use and intend to rely on them for finished drug products that we may provide to others for development and commercial purposes. If the FDA or a comparable foreign regulatory authority does not approve these facilities for the manufacture of our product candidates or if it withdraws any such approval in the future, we may need to find alternative manufacturing facilities, which would significantly impact our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval for or market our product candidates, if approved.. 41. We currently intend to manufacture certain drug products in-house, including compounding, formulation and primary packaging for our clinical trials. We currently contract with multiple labeling and packaging materials suppliers for our drug products. If we or our labeling and packaging materials suppliers were unable to manufacture and provide the necessary drug product supplies to conduct our clinical trials, we may not be able to contract with another third party in a timely manner to meet our product candidate specifications and supply needs. As a result, we could experience delays in the development and commercialization timelines of our product candidates, as well as increased costs. Furthermore, we expect to continue to depend on internal capabilities and third-party suppliers of raw materials for the foreseeable future. See risks related to third party suppliers described below.. If future third party manufacturers are unable to perform the required technology transfer of the manufacturing processes and analytical methods for drug product development and commercial manufacturing under cGMP guidelines and regulations, we could experience delays in the development and commercialization timelines of our product candidates, as well as increased costs.  Further, while we intend to contract with third party manufacturers for clinical trial materials and prior to commercial launch in order to ensure that we maintain adequate supplies of finished drug product, we may be unable to enter into such agreements or do so on commercially reasonable terms.. We rely on third parties to supply raw materials necessary to manufacture our API and drug products. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines for raw materials, we may be unable to manufacture API or drug product which could jeopardize the start of preclinical studies or clinical trials and potentially delay or cause failure to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize any of our product candidates.. We rely on third-party suppliers for the raw materials necessary to produce the API and drug products we require. There are a limited number of suppliers for raw materials, including nitric oxide, that are used in the manufacture of our product candidates, drugs (once approved by the FDA or comparable regulatory authority) or the drug products we supply to others, and there may be a need to assess alternate suppliers to prevent a possible disruption of the manufacture of the materials, importantly nitric oxide, necessary to produce our product candidates for our clinical trials, and if approved, ultimately for commercial sale, or to satisfy our obligations to others. We have not entered into long-term agreements with our current suppliers or with any alternate suppliers. We currently obtain our raw material supplies for finished drug products through individual purchase orders. With future third-party manufacturers of our product candidates, we do not have any control over the process or timing of the acquisition of these raw materials. Moreover, we currently do not have any agreements for the commercial production of these raw materials, including nitric oxide. Although we generally do not begin a clinical trial unless we believe we have a sufficient supply of a product candidate to complete the clinical trial, any significant delay in the supply of the raw material components to manufacture drug products for an ongoing clinical trial due to the need to replace a raw material supplier could considerably delay completion of our clinical trials, product testing and potential regulatory approval of our product candidates. If we or our future third party manufacturers are unable to purchase these raw materials, including nitric oxide, after regulatory approval has been obtained for our product candidates, the commercial launch of our product candidates would be delayed or there would be a shortage in supply, which would impair our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our product candidates.. Our employees, independent contractors, principal investigators, CROs, consultants, commercial partners and vendors may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including noncompliance with regulatory standards and requirements, which could expose us to liability and hurt our reputation.. We are exposed to the risk that our employees, independent contractors, principal investigators, CROs, consultants, commercial partners and vendors may engage in fraudulent conduct or other illegal activity. Misconduct by these parties could include intentional, reckless or negligent conduct or disclosure of unauthorized activities to us that violates: (i) FDA laws and regulations, including those laws that require the reporting of true, complete and accurate information to the FDA, (ii) manufacturing standards, (iii) federal, state and foreign data privacy, security, fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws, or (iv) laws that require the true, complete and accurate reporting of financial information or data. Activities subject to these laws also involve the improper use or misrepresentation of information obtained in the course of clinical trials, creating fraudulent data in our preclinical studies or clinical trials or illegal misappropriation of drug product, which could result in regulatory sanctions and cause serious harm to our reputation. It is not always possible to identify and deter misconduct by employees and other third parties, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or. 42. unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations. Additionally, we are subject to the risk that a person or government could allege such fraud or other misconduct, even if none occurred. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business and financial results, including, without limitation, the imposition of significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, monetary fines, possible exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs, reputational harm, diminished profits and future earnings, and curtailment of our operations.. Risks Related to Our Operations. Our business involves the use of hazardous materials and we and our third-party suppliers and manufacturers must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business.. The manufacturing activities of our third-party suppliers and manufacturers involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials owned by us, including the components of our product candidates such as nitric oxide and other hazardous compounds. We and our manufacturers and suppliers are subject to laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials. In some cases, these hazardous materials and various wastes resulting from their use are stored at our suppliers' or manufacturers' facilities pending use and disposal. We and our suppliers and manufacturers cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination, which could cause an interruption of our commercialization efforts, research and development efforts and business operations, injury to our service providers and others and environmental damage resulting in costly clean-up and liabilities under applicable laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specified waste products. Although we believe that the safety procedures utilized by our third-party suppliers and manufacturers for handling and disposing of these materials generally comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, we cannot guarantee that this is the case or eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In such an event, we may be held liable for any resulting damages and such liability could exceed our financial resources.. We specialize solely in developing nitric oxide-based topical therapeutics for dermatological and oncovirus-mediated diseases, and if we do not successfully achieve regulatory approval for any of our product candidates or successfully commercialize them, we may not be able to continue as a business.. All of our clinical development efforts to date have focused on the development of nitric oxide-based topical therapies. There can be no assurance that the intended or anticipated results from the use of nitric oxide-based therapies will be reaped, and that we will successfully bring our product candidates to market. Because all of our current product candidates are based on nitric oxide and our Nitricil technology, the failure of our Nitricil technology to be safe or efficacious generally will have adverse implications for our entire product candidate pipeline. If, for any reason, our intended use of nitric oxide does not materialize, we may not be able to redeploy our resources to alternative components or raw materials, efficiently or at all.. Changes to our leadership team could prove disruptive to our operations and have adverse consequences for our business and operating results.. We are currently conducting a search for a permanent chief executive officer and permanent chief financial officer. Managing transitions in our executive leadership team may divert our existing management team's attention from our core operations, and the recent transitions we have experienced may make it more difficult for us to identify a permanent chief executive officer or permanent chief financial officer or to retain existing employees. If we are unable to timely locate successors for key management positions, it may negatively impact our business. In addition, the recent transitions we have experienced have increased our dependency on the remaining members of the senior executive team and other key employees within the organization. We have incurred costs related to transitions in our management team, including severance payments, and expect to incur recruitment costs related to the hiring of new executives from time to time.. 43. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of computer system failures, cyber-attacks or deficiencies in our cyber-security.. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems, and those of third parties on which we rely, are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, malware, natural disasters, terrorism, war, telecommunication and electrical failures, cyber-attacks or cyber-intrusions over the Internet, attachments to emails, persons inside our organization, or persons with access to systems inside our organization. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber-attacks or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments, and cyber terrorists, has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. If such an event were to occur and cause interruptions in our operations, it could result in a material disruption of our product development programs. For example, the loss of clinical trial data from completed or ongoing or planned clinical trials could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. To the extent that any disruption or security breach was to result in a loss of or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur material legal claims and liability, and damage to our reputation, and the further development of our product candidates could be delayed.. Our disclosure controls and procedures address cybersecurity and include elements intended to ensure that there is an analysis of potential disclosure obligations arising from security breaches. We also maintain compliance programs to address the potential applicability of restrictions against trading while in possession of material, nonpublic information generally and in connection with a cyber-security breach. However, a breakdown in existing controls and procedures around our cyber-security environment may prevent us from detecting, reporting or responding to cyber incidents in a timely manner and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and value of the Company's stock.. We may experience significant future growth which may adversely disrupt our operations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had 58 full-time employees and one part-time employee. As our development progresses, we may experience significant growth in the number of our employees and the scope of our operations, particularly in the area of product development and, if any of our product candidates receives marketing approval, sales, marketing and distribution. To manage our anticipated future growth, we must continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational and financial systems, expand our facilities and continue to recruit and train additional qualified personnel. Due to our limited financial resources and the limited experience of our management team in managing a company with such anticipated growth, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. The expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs and may divert our management and business development resources. Any inability to manage growth could delay the execution of our business plans or disrupt our operations.. Risks Related to Government Regulation. Even if we receive regulatory approval of our product candidates, we will be subject to ongoing regulatory obligations and continued regulatory review, which may result in significant additional expense, and we may be subject to penalties, if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements or experience unanticipated problems with our product candidates.. Any regulatory approvals that we receive for our product candidates may be subject to limitations on the approved indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or the conditions of approval or contain requirements for potentially costly post-market testing and surveillance to monitor the safety and efficacy of the product candidate. The FDA may also require a REMS as a condition of approval of our product candidates, which could include requirements for a medication guide, physician communication plans or additional elements to ensure safe use, such as restricted distribution methods, patient registries and other risk minimization tools. In addition, if the FDA or a comparable foreign regulatory authority approves our product candidates, the manufacturing processes, labeling, packaging, distribution, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion, import, export and recordkeeping for our product candidates will be subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. These requirements include submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, registration, as well as continued compliance with cGMPs and GCP requirements for any clinical trials that we conduct post-approval. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our product candidates, including adverse events of unanticipated. 44. severity or frequency, or with our third-party manufacturers or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in, among other things:. •  restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of our product candidates, withdrawal of the product from the market, or voluntary or mandatory product recalls;. •  fines, warning letters or holds on clinical trials;. •  refusal by the FDA to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us or suspension or revocation of approvals;. •  product seizure or detention, or refusal to permit the import or export of our product candidates; and. •  injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties.. The FDA's and other regulatory authorities' policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent, limit or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. For example, in December 2016, the 21st Century Cures Act, or Cures Act, was signed into law. The Cures Act, among other things, is intended to modernize the regulation of drugs and spur innovation, but its ultimate implementation remains unclear. If we are slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing requirements or the adoption of new requirements or policies, or if we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may fail to obtain any marketing approvals, lose any marketing approval that we may have obtained and we may not achieve or sustain profitability.. We also cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. For example, certain policies of the Trump administration may impact our business and industry. Namely, the Trump administration has taken several executive actions, including the issuance of a number of executive orders, that could impose significant burdens on, or otherwise materially delay, the FDA's ability to engage in routine regulatory and oversight activities such as implementing statutes through rulemaking, issuance of guidance, and review and approval of marketing applications. An under-staffed FDA could result in delays in FDA's responsiveness or in its ability to review submissions or applications, issue regulations or guidance or implement or enforce regulatory requirements in a timely fashion or at all.  It is difficult to predict how these actions will be implemented, and the extent to which they will impact the FDA's ability to exercise its regulatory authority. If these executive actions impose constraints on FDA's ability to engage in oversight and implementation activities in the normal course, our business may be negatively impacted. In addition, if we are slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing requirements or the adoption of new requirements or policies, or if we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may lose any marketing approval that we may have obtained and we may not achieve or sustain profitability.. Recently enacted and future legislation may increase the difficulty and cost for us to obtain marketing approval of and commercialize our product candidates and affect the prices we may obtain.. In the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of legislative and regulatory changes and proposed changes regarding the healthcare system that could prevent or delay marketing approval of our product candidates, restrict or regulate post-approval activities and affect our ability to profitably sell any product candidates for which we obtain marketing approval.. For example, in the United States, in 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, or collectively the ACA, a sweeping law intended to broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of healthcare spending, enhance remedies against fraud and abuse, add new transparency requirements for the healthcare and health insurance industries, impose new taxes and fees on the health industry and impose additional health policy reforms. Among the provisions of the ACA of importance to our potential product candidates are the following:. •  an annual, nondeductible fee payable by any entity that manufactures or imports specified branded prescription drugs and biologic agents;. •  an increase in the statutory minimum rebates a manufacturer must pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program;. 45. •  a new methodology by which rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program are calculated for drugs that are inhaled, infused, instilled, implanted or injected;. •  a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50% point-of-sale discounts off negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries under their coverage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturer's outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D;. •  extension of manufacturers' Medicaid rebate liability to individuals enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations;. •  expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs;. •  expansion of the entities eligible for discounts under the Public Health Service pharmaceutical pricing program;. •  a new requirement to annually report drug samples that manufacturers and distributors provide to physicians; and. •  a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research.. Since its enactment, there have been judicial and Congressional challenges to certain aspects of the ACA. We expect that the current presidential administration and U.S. Congress will likely continue to seek to modify, repeal, or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the Affordable Care Act. The impact that President Trump's administration and the U.S. Congress may have, if any, is uncertain, and any changes will likely take time to unfold, and could have an impact on coverage and reimbursement for healthcare items and services covered by plans that were authorized by the Affordable Care Act.. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted in the U.S. since the ACA was enacted. These changes included aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect in April 2013 and, due to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, will remain in effect through 2025 unless additional action is taken by Congress. In January 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which, among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to several types of providers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. These new laws may result in additional reductions in Medicare and other healthcare funding. In addition, recently there has been heightened governmental scrutiny over the manner in which manufacturers set prices for their commercial products, which has resulted in several Congressional inquiries and proposed bills designed to, among other things, reform government program reimbursement methodologies.. We expect that the ACA, as well as other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, may result in additional reductions in Medicare and other healthcare funding, more rigorous coverage criteria, new payment methodologies and in additional downward pressure on the price that we receive for any approved product. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare or other government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. The implementation of cost containment measures or other healthcare reforms may prevent us from being able to generate revenue, attain profitability, or commercialize our product candidates, if approved.. Legislative and regulatory proposals have been made to expand post-approval requirements and restrict sales and promotional activities for pharmaceutical products. We cannot be sure whether additional legislative changes will be enacted, or whether the FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations will be changed, or what the impact of such changes on the marketing approvals of our product candidates, if any, may be. In addition, increased scrutiny by the U.S. Congress of the FDA's approval process may significantly delay or prevent marketing approval, as well as subject us to more stringent product labeling and post-marketing testing and other requirements.. 46. We are subject to governmental economic sanctions and export and import controls that could impair our ability to compete in international markets or subject us to liability if we are not in compliance with applicable laws.. As a U.S. company, we are subject to U.S. import and export controls and economic sanctions laws and regulations, and we are required to import and export our product candidates, technology and services in compliance with those laws and regulations, including the U.S. Export Administration Regulations, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, and economic embargo and trade sanction programs administered by the Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control.. U.S. economic sanctions and export control laws and regulations prohibit the shipment of certain products and services to countries, governments and persons targeted by U.S. sanctions. While we are currently taking precautions to prevent doing any business, directly or indirectly, with countries, governments and persons targeted by U.S. sanctions and to ensure that our product candidates, if approved, are not exported or used by countries, governments and persons targeted by U.S. sanctions, such measures may be circumvented.. Furthermore, if we export our product candidates, if approved, the exports may require authorizations, including a license, a license exception or other appropriate government authorization. Complying with export control and sanctions regulations for a particular sale may be time-consuming and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. Failure to comply with export control and sanctions regulations for a particular sale may expose us to government investigations and penalties.. If we are found to be in violation of U.S. sanctions or import or export control laws, it could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties, including possible incarceration for those individuals responsible for the violations, the loss of export or import privileges and reputational harm.. We are subject to anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws with respect to our operations and non-compliance with such laws can subject us to criminal or civil liability and harm our business.. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, or the FCPA, the U.S. domestic bribery statute contained in 18 U.S.C. § 201, the U.S. Travel Act, the USA PATRIOT Act and possibly other anti-bribery and anti-money laundering laws in countries in which we may conduct activities. Anti-corruption laws are interpreted broadly and prohibit companies and their employees and third-party intermediaries from authorizing, offering or providing, directly or indirectly, improper payments or benefits to recipients in the public or private sector. As we commercialize our product candidates and eventually commence international sales and business, we may engage with collaborators and third-party intermediaries to sell our products abroad and to obtain necessary permits, licenses and other regulatory approvals. We or our third-party intermediaries may have direct or indirect interactions with officials and employees of government agencies or state-owned or affiliated entities. We may be held liable for the corrupt or other illegal activities of these third-party intermediaries, our employees, representatives, contractors, partners and agents, even if we do not explicitly authorize such activities.. Noncompliance with anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws could subject us to whistleblower complaints, investigations, sanctions, settlements, prosecution, other enforcement actions, disgorgement of profits, significant fines, damages, other civil and criminal penalties or injunctions, suspension or debarment from contracting with certain persons, the loss of export privileges, reputational harm, adverse media coverage and other collateral consequences. Responding to any action will likely result in a materially significant diversion of management's attention and resources and significant defense costs and other professional fees.. Recent U.S. tax legislation may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Recently enacted U.S. tax legislation has significantly changed the U.S. federal income taxation of U.S. corporations, including by reducing the U.S. corporate income tax rate, limiting interest deductions, permitting immediate expensing of certain capital expenditures, and revising the rules governing net operating losses and foreign tax credits. Many of these changes are effective immediately, without any transition periods or grandfathering for existing transactions. The legislation is unclear in many respects and could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, as well as interpretations and implementation regulations by the U.S. Department of the Treasury and Internal Revenue Service, any of which could materially affect the impacts of the. 47. legislation. In addition, it is unclear how these U.S. federal income tax changes will affect state and local taxation, which often uses federal taxable income as a starting point for computing state and local tax liabilities. See Note 9 - Income Taxes for additional information about our deferred tax assets.. While some of the changes made by the tax legislation may adversely affect us in one or more reporting periods and prospectively, other changes may be beneficial on a going forward basis. We continue to work with our tax advisors to determine the full impact of this legislation on us.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. If we are unable to obtain and maintain patent protection for our product candidates, or if the scope of the patent protection obtained is not sufficiently broad, our competitors could develop and commercialize technology and products similar or identical to ours, and our ability to successfully commercialize our technology and product candidates may be impaired.. We rely upon a combination of patents, trade secret protection, and confidentiality agreements to protect the intellectual property related to our product candidates. Our success depends in large part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection in the United States and other countries with respect to our product candidates. We seek to protect our proprietary position by filing patent applications in the United States and abroad related to our product candidates.. The patent prosecution process is expensive and time-consuming, however, and we may not be able to file and prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. It is also possible that we will fail to identify patentable aspects of our technology platform or product candidates before it is too late to obtain patent protection. We may not have the right to control the preparation, filing and prosecution of patent applications, or to maintain the rights to patents licensed to or from third parties. In particular, certain patents and patent applications covering our core technology platform are exclusively licensed from the University of North Carolina, or UNC, and under our license agreement with UNC, we rely on UNC to prosecute and maintain such patents and applications. Therefore, these patents and applications, and any other patents and applications that we may license from or to third parties, may not be prosecuted and enforced in a manner consistent with the best interests of our business.. If the patent applications we hold or have in-licensed with respect to our product candidates fail to issue, if their breadth or strength of protection is threatened, or if they fail to provide meaningful exclusivity for our current or any future product candidates, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Even if our owned and licensed patent applications issue as patents, they may not issue in a form that will provide us with any meaningful protection, prevent competitors from competing with us or otherwise provide us with any competitive advantage. Our competitors may be able to circumvent our owned and licensed patents by developing similar or alternative technologies or products in a non-infringing manner.. The patent position of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies generally is highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions and has in recent years been the subject of much litigation. In addition, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States or vice versa. For example, European patent law restricts the patentability of methods of treatment of the human body more than United States law does. Publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind the actual discoveries, and patent applications in the United States and other jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases not at all. Therefore, we cannot know with certainty whether we were the first to make the inventions claimed in our owned and licensed patents or pending patent applications, or that we were the first to file for patent protection of such inventions. As a result, the issuance, scope, validity, enforceability and commercial value of our patent rights are highly uncertain. Our pending and future patent applications may not result in patents being issued that protect our technology or products, in whole or in part, or which effectively prevent others from commercializing competitive technologies and products. Changes in either the patent laws or interpretation of the patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our owned and licensed patents or narrow the scope of our patent protection while patent reform legislation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents.. 48. Recent patent reform legislation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents. On September 16, 2011, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the Leahy-Smith Act, was signed into law. The Leahy-Smith Act includes a number of significant changes to United States patent law. These include provisions that affect the way patent applications are prosecuted and may also affect patent litigation. The USPTO recently developed new regulations and procedures to govern administration of the Leahy-Smith Act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the Leahy-Smith Act, and in particular, the first to file provisions, only became effective on March 16, 2013. Accordingly, it is not clear what, if any, impact the Leahy-Smith Act will have on the operation of our business. However, the Leahy-Smith Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents, all of which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. For example, the first to file system under the Leahy-Smith Act may incentivize companies like us in the biopharmaceutical industry to file patent applications as soon as possible, and filing applications as soon as possible runs the risk that the application will not have the supporting data to claim the broadest protection possible in the United States.. Moreover, we may be subject to a third-party preissuance submission of prior art to the USPTO or become involved in opposition, derivation, reexamination, inter partes review, post-grant review or interference proceedings challenging our patent rights or the patent rights of others. An adverse determination in any such submission, proceeding or litigation could reduce the scope of, or invalidate, our patent rights, allow third parties to commercialize our technology or products and compete directly with us, without payment to us, or result in our inability to manufacture or commercialize products without infringing third-party patent rights. In addition, if the breadth or strength of protection provided by our owned and licensed patents and patent applications is threatened, it could dissuade companies from collaborating with us to license, develop or commercialize current or future product candidates.. In addition, the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its inventorship, scope, validity or enforceability, and our owned and licensed patents may be challenged in the courts or patent offices in the United States and abroad. Such challenges may result in loss of exclusivity or freedom to operate or in patent claims being narrowed, invalidated or held unenforceable, in whole or in part, which could limit our ability to stop others from using or commercializing similar or identical technology and products, or limit the duration of the patent protection of our technology and products. Given the amount of time required for the development, testing and regulatory review of new product candidates, patents protecting such candidates might expire before or shortly after such candidates are commercialized. As a result, our patent portfolio may not provide us with sufficient rights to exclude others from commercializing products similar or identical to ours.. Finally, certain of our activities and our licensors' activities have been funded, and may in the future be funded, by the U.S. federal government. When new technologies are developed with U.S. federal government funding, the government obtains certain rights in any resulting patents, including a nonexclusive license authorizing the government to use the invention for non-commercial purposes. These rights may permit the government to disclose our confidential information to third parties and to exercise \"march-in\" rights to use or allow third parties to use our patented technology. The government can exercise its march-in rights if it determines that action is necessary because we fail to achieve practical application of the U.S. government-funded technology, because action is necessary to alleviate health or safety needs, to meet requirements of federal regulations or to give preference to U.S. industry. In addition, U.S. government-funded inventions must be reported to the government, U.S. government funding must be disclosed in any resulting patent applications, and our rights in such inventions may be subject to certain requirements to manufacture products in the United States.. Obtaining and maintaining our patent protection depends on compliance with various procedural, document submission, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements.. Periodic maintenance fees on any issued patent are due to be paid to the USPTO and other foreign patent agencies in several stages over the lifetime of the patent. The USPTO and various foreign national or international patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other similar provisions during the patent application process. While an inadvertent lapse can in many cases be cured by payment of a late fee or by other means in accordance with the applicable rules, there are situations in which noncompliance can result. 49. in abandonment or lapse of the patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. Non-compliance events that could result in abandonment or lapse of patent rights include, but are not limited to, failure to timely file national and regional stage patent applications based on our international patent application, failure to respond to official actions within prescribed time limits, non-payment of fees and failure to properly legalize and submit formal documents. If we or our licensors fail to maintain the patents and patent applications covering our technology platform or product candidates, our competitors might be able to enter the market, which would have an adverse effect on our business.. Changes in U.S. patent laws could diminish the value of patents in general, thereby impairing our ability to protect our products.. The United States has recently enacted and implemented wide-ranging patent reform legislation. The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled on several patent cases in recent years, either narrowing the scope of patent protection available in certain circumstances or weakening the rights of patent owners in certain situations. In addition to increasing uncertainty with regard to our ability to obtain patents in the future, this combination of events has created uncertainty with respect to the value of patents, once obtained. Depending on actions by the U.S. Congress, the federal courts, and the USPTO, the laws and regulations governing patents could change in unpredictable ways that would weaken our ability to obtain new patents or to enforce patents that we have licensed or that we might obtain in the future.. We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our owned and licensed patents, which could be expensive, time-consuming and unsuccessful. Further, our issued patents could be found invalid or unenforceable if challenged in court.. If we were to initiate legal proceedings against a third-party to enforce a patent directed to our product candidates, or one of our future product candidates, the defendant could counterclaim that our patent is invalid or unenforceable. In patent litigation in the United States, defendant counterclaims alleging invalidity or unenforceability are commonplace. Grounds for a validity challenge could be an alleged failure to meet any of several statutory requirements, including lack of novelty, obviousness, non-enablement or insufficient written description. Grounds for an unenforceability assertion could be an allegation that someone connected with prosecution of the patent withheld relevant information from the USPTO or made a misleading statement during prosecution. Third parties may also raise similar claims before the USPTO, even outside the context of litigation. The outcome following legal assertions of invalidity and unenforceability is unpredictable. With respect to the validity question, for example, we cannot be certain that there is no invalidating prior art of which we and the patent examiner were unaware during prosecution. If a defendant were to prevail on a legal assertion of invalidity or unenforceability, we would lose at least part, and perhaps all, of the patent protection on our product candidates. Such a loss of patent protection would harm our business.. Interference proceedings provoked by third parties or brought by us or declared by the USPTO may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our owned and licensed patents or patent applications. An unfavorable outcome could require us to cease using the related technology or to attempt to license rights to it from the prevailing party. Our business could be harmed if the prevailing party does not offer us a license on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation.. Most of our competitors are larger than we are and have substantially greater resources than we do. They are, therefore, likely to be able to sustain the costs of complex patent or other intellectual property rights litigation longer than we could. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, which could harm our business. In addition, the uncertainties associated with litigation could compromise our ability to raise the funds necessary to continue our clinical trials, continue our internal research programs, or in-license needed technology or other product candidates. There could also be public announcements of the results of. 50. the hearing, motions, or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive those results to be negative, it could cause the price of shares of our common stock to decline.. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights throughout the world, which could impair our business.. Filing, prosecuting and defending patents on our product candidates in all countries throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive, and our intellectual property rights in some countries outside the United States can be less extensive than those in the United States. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as federal and state laws in the United States. Consequently, we may not be able to prevent third parties from practicing our invention in such countries. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection to develop their own products and may export otherwise infringing products to territories where we have patent protection, but enforcement rights are not as strong as those in the United States. These products may compete with our product candidates and our owned and licensed patents or other intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent them from competing.. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of some countries do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our owned and licensed patents generally. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial costs and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business, could put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our owned and licensed patent applications at risk of not issuing and could provoke third parties to assert claims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate, and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially meaningful.. Many countries, including European Union countries, India, Japan and China, have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled under specified circumstances to grant licenses to third parties. In those countries, we may have limited remedies if patents are infringed or if we are compelled to grant a license to a third party, which could materially diminish the value of those patents. This could limit our potential revenue opportunities. Accordingly, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights around the world may be inadequate to obtain a significant commercial advantage from the intellectual property that we develop or license.. We may not be able to obtain licenses to third-party intellectual property. Third parties may initiate legal proceedings alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights.. A third party may hold intellectual property, including patent rights that are important or necessary to the development or commercialization of our product candidates. However, we may not be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, our existing licenses may be terminated or may not be renewed, which could hurt our business.. In addition, our commercial success depends upon our ability to develop, manufacture, market and sell our product candidates and use our proprietary technologies without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. There is considerable intellectual property litigation in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries. We may become party to, or threatened with, future adversarial proceedings or litigation regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our products and technology, including interference or derivation proceedings before the USPTO. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications owned by third parties exist in the fields in which we are developing our product candidates. As the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries expand and more patents are issued, and as we gain greater visibility and market exposure as a public company, the risk increases that our product candidates or other business activities may be subject to claims of infringement of the patent and other proprietary rights of third parties. Third parties may assert infringement claims against us based on existing patents or patents that may be granted in the future. We have conducted searches for information in support of patent protection and otherwise evaluating the patent landscape for nitric oxide releasing materials and products, and, based on these searches and evaluations to date, we do not believe that there are valid patents which contain granted claims that could be asserted with respect to our nitric oxide-based product candidates.. 51. Parties making claims against us may obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability to further develop and commercialize one or more of our product candidates or force us to cease some of our business operations. Defense of these claims, regardless of their merit, would involve substantial litigation expense and would be a substantial diversion of employee resources from our business. If we are found to infringe a third party's intellectual property rights, we could be required to redesign our infringing products or obtain a license from such third party to continue developing and marketing our products and technology. However, we may not be able to obtain any required license on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Even if we were able to obtain a license, it could be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors access to the same technologies licensed to us. Moreover, we could be forced, including by court order, to cease commercializing the infringing technology or product. In addition, we could be found liable for monetary damages, including treble damages and attorneys' fees if we are found to have willfully infringed a patent. Claims that we have misappropriated the confidential information or trade secrets of third parties could have a similar negative impact on our business.. We may be subject to claims by third parties asserting that we or our employees have misappropriated their intellectual property or claiming ownership of what we regard as our own intellectual property.. Many of our employees were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies or universities. Although we try to ensure that our employees do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have used or disclosed intellectual property, including trade secrets or other proprietary information, of any such employee's former employer. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims.. In addition, while it is our policy to require our employees and contractors who may be involved in the development of intellectual property to execute agreements assigning such intellectual property to us, we may be unsuccessful in executing such an agreement with each party who in fact develops intellectual property that we regard as our own. Our and their assignment agreements may not be self-executing or may be breached, and we may be forced to bring claims against third parties, or defend claims they may bring against us, to determine the ownership of what we regard as our intellectual property.. If we fail in prosecuting or defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. Even if we are successful in prosecuting or defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management.. If we fail to comply with our obligations under any license, collaboration or other agreements, it could have a material adverse effect on our commercialization efforts for our product candidates.. Our current licenses impose, and any future licenses we enter into may impose, various development, commercialization, milestone, royalty, diligence, sublicensing, insurance, patent prosecution and enforcement, and other obligations on us. If we breach any of these obligations, or use the intellectual property licensed to us in an unauthorized manner, we may be required to pay damages and the licensor may have the right to terminate the license, which could result in us being unable to develop, manufacture and sell products that are covered by the licensed technology or enable a competitor to gain access to the licensed technology.. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, our business and competitive position would be harmed.. In addition to seeking patents for our product candidates, we also rely on trade secrets, including unpatented know-how, technology and other proprietary information, to maintain our competitive position.. We seek to protect our trade secrets, in part, by entering into non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with parties who have access to them, such as our employees (including through specific provisions in employment contracts), corporate collaborators, outside scientific collaborators, contract manufacturers, consultants, advisors and other third parties. We also enter into confidentiality and invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and consultants. Despite these efforts, any of these parties may breach the agreements and disclose our proprietary information, including our trade secrets, and we may not be able to obtain adequate remedies for such. 52. breaches. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally disclosed or misappropriated a trade secret is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, some courts inside and outside the United States are less willing or unwilling to protect trade secrets. If any of our trade secrets were to be lawfully obtained or independently developed by a competitor, we would have no right to prevent them, or those to whom they communicate it, from using that technology or information to compete with us. If any of our trade secrets were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our competitive position would be materially impaired.. Our reliance on third parties requires us to share our trade secrets, which increases the possibility that a competitor will discover them or that our trade secrets will be misappropriated or disclosed.. Because we expect to rely on third parties to manufacture any of our current or future product candidates, we must, at times, share trade secrets with them. These agreements typically limit the rights of the third parties to use or disclose our confidential information, including our trade secrets. Despite the contractual provisions employed when working with third parties, the need to share trade secrets and other confidential information increases the risk that such trade secrets become known by our competitors, are inadvertently incorporated into the technology of others, or are disclosed or used in violation of these agreements. Given that our proprietary position is based, in part, on our know-how and trade secrets, a competitor's discovery of our trade secrets or other unauthorized use or disclosure would impair our competitive position and may adversely impact our business.. Any trademarks we have obtained or may obtain may be infringed or successfully challenged, materially harming to our business.. We expect to rely on trademarks as one means to distinguish any of our product candidates that are approved for marketing from the products of our competitors. Once we select new trademarks and apply to register them, our trademark applications may not be approved. Third parties may oppose or attempt to cancel our trademark applications or trademarks, or otherwise challenge our use of the trademarks. In the event that our trademarks are successfully challenged, we could be forced to rebrand our products, which could result in loss of brand recognition and could require us to devote resources to advertising and marketing new brands. Further, our competitors may infringe our trademarks, including with respect to our Nitricil technology and we may not have adequate resources to enforce our trademarks.. Outside of the United States we cannot be certain that any country's patent or trademark office will not implement new rules that could seriously affect how we draft, file, prosecute and maintain patents, trademarks and patent and trademark applications.. We cannot be certain that the patent or trademark offices of countries outside the United States will not implement new rules that increase costs for drafting, filing, prosecuting and maintaining patents, trademarks and patent and trademark applications or that any such new rules will not restrict our ability to file for patent protection. For example, we may elect not to seek patent protection in some jurisdictions or for some product candidates in order to save costs. We may be forced to abandon or return the rights to specific patents due to a lack of financial resources.. Intellectual property rights do not necessarily address all potential threats to our competitive advantage.. The degree of future protection afforded by our intellectual property rights is uncertain because intellectual property rights have limitations, and may not adequately protect our business, or permit us to maintain our competitive advantage, for reasons including but not limited to the following:. •  others may be able to make formulations or compositions that are the same as or similar to certain of our product candidates but that are not covered by the claims of the patents that we own or license;. •  others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies without infringing our trade secret or similar rights;. •  issued patents that we own or license may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be held invalid or unenforceable as a result of legal challenges;. 53. •  our competitors might conduct research and development activities in the United States and other countries that provide a safe harbor from patent infringement claims for certain research and development activities, as well as in countries where we do not have patent rights, and then use the information learned from such activities to develop competitive products for sale in our major commercial markets; and. •  we may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. The price of our common stock may be volatile and fluctuate significantly, which could result in substantial losses for our existing stockholders.. Our stock price has in the past been, and is likely to be in the future, volatile. The stock market in general has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. During the period from January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2017, the closing sales price of our common stock ranged from a high of $26.86 per share to a low of $3.82 per share. Our stock price experienced significant decline following the announcement of top-line results of our Phase 3 clinical trials of SB204 in late January 2017, and for the period from February 1, 2017 to December 31, 2017, the closing sales price of our common stock ranged from a high of $7.09 per share to a low of $3.82 per share. As a result of this volatility, our existing stockholders may not be able to sell their stock at a favorable price. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including:. •  actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition and operating results;. •  actual or anticipated changes in our growth rate relative to our competitors;. •  potential competition from existing products or new products that may emerge;. •  development of new technologies that may address our markets and may make our technology less attractive;. •  changes in physician, hospital or healthcare provider practices that may make our product candidates less attractive;. •  announcements by us, our partners or our competitors regarding significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, collaborations or capital commitments;. •  developments or disputes concerning proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies;. •  the recruitment or departure of key personnel;. •  failure to meet or exceed financial estimates and projections of the investment community or that we provide to the public;. •  actual or anticipated changes in estimates as to financial results, development timelines or recommendations by securities analysts;. •  variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us;. •  changes to reimbursement levels by commercial third-party payors and government payors, including Medicare, and negative announcements relating to reimbursement levels;. •  general economic, industry and market conditions; and. •  the other factors described in this \"Risk Factors\" section.. In addition, the stock market in general and emerging growth companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. A certain degree of stock price volatility can be attributed to being a newly public company. These broad market and industry fluctuations may negatively impact the price or liquidity of our common stock, regardless. 54. of our operating performance.  Any actual or perceived negative operational developments or market or industry fluctuations may compound each other's negative impacts on the price of liquidity of our common stock.. We have been named as a defendant in putative securities class action lawsuits. These, and potential similar or related litigation, could result in substantial damages and may divert management's time and attention from our business.. As described in the section entitled \"Legal Proceedings\" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, putative stockholder class action lawsuits have been filed against us and certain of our current and former directors and officers. These lawsuits were filed on behalf of a putative class of all persons who purchased or otherwise acquired our securities (1) pursuant or traceable to our IPO, or (2) on the open market during the period specified in the complaints. The lawsuits assert claims for violation of Sections 11 and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933 and Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Exchange Act and SEC Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, in connection with statements related to our Phase 3 clinical trials of SB204. The complaints seek, among other things, an unspecified amount of compensatory damages and attorneys' fees and costs on behalf of the putative class. We believe that the claims lack merit and intend to defend the lawsuits vigorously, but there can be no assurance that a favorable resolution will be obtained in any of these matters. An unfavorable resolution in such lawsuits, whether by final judgment or an unfavorable settlement, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, the actual cost of the litigation may be significant, and the litigation may divert management's time and attention from our business.. Our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders, if they choose to act together, will to have the ability to control or significantly influence matters submitted to stockholders for approval.. Our executive officers, directors and stockholders who owned more than 5% of our outstanding common stock and their respective affiliates, in the aggregate, hold shares representing approximately 32% of our outstanding voting common stock as of January 10, 2018, following the close of our recent public offering. As a result, if these stockholders were to choose to act together, they would be able to significantly influence matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, as well as our management and affairs. For example, these persons, if they choose to act together, would control or significantly influence the election of directors and approval of any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership control may:. •  delay, defer or prevent a change in control;. •  entrench our management and the board of directors; or. •  impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us that other stockholders may desire.. The significant concentration of stock ownership may negatively impact the price of our common stock due to investors' perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise.. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws under Delaware law could make an acquisition of our company, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management.. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. In addition, because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors. Among other things, these provisions include those establishing:. •  a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms, which may delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our board of directors;. 55. •  no cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates;. •  the exclusive right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from filling vacancies on our board of directors;. •  the ability of our board of directors to authorize the issuance of shares of preferred stock and to determine the terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer;. •  the ability of our board of directors to alter our amended and restated bylaws without obtaining stockholder approval;. •  the required approval of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to adopt, amend or repeal our amended and restated bylaws or repeal the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation regarding the election and removal of directors;. •  a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders;. •  the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the chief executive officer, the chairman, the president or the board of directors, which may delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors;. •  advance notice procedures that stockholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us; and. •  the requirement that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware be the sole and exclusive forum for derivative actions and other corporate claims unless we consent to an alternative forum in writing, which may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or any of our directors, officers or other employees and discourage lawsuits with respect to such claims.. Moreover, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner.. We have broad discretion in the use of our financial resources, including our cash and cash equivalents, and may not use them effectively.. Our management has broad discretion in the application of our financial resources, including our cash and cash equivalents, and could spend our cash in ways that do not improve our results of operations or enhance the value of our common stock. Our future use of our financial resources may differ substantially from our current plans. The failure by our management to apply our financial resources effectively could result in financial losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business and cause the price of our common stock to decline. Pending their use, we may invest our cash and cash equivalents in a manner that does not produce income or that loses value.. Future sales of shares by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline.. If our existing stockholders sell, or indicate an intent to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock that are eligible for sale in the public market, in some cases subject to compliance with the requirements of Rule 144 and after expiration of lock-up agreements entered into in connection with the January 2018 Offering, the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly. As of January 10, 2018, we had approximately 26.0 million shares of common stock outstanding and exercisable warrants to purchase approximately 10.0 million shares of common. 56. stock outstanding. Approximately 4.2 million shares are subject to lock-up restrictions, which restrictions expire beginning on April 5, 2018. Also, on October 2, 2017, we filed a registration statement on Form S-3, which the SEC declared effective on October 10, 2017, which registered for resale 2,623,485 shares of our common stock (or approximately 10% of our total outstanding shares of common stock as of January 10, 2018) held by Malin Life Sciences Holdings Limited, or Malin. Malin is among the stockholders subject to the lock-up restrictions. Certain other of our stockholders hold substantial amounts of our common stock. If substantial amounts of shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" and the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies may make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the JOBS Act, and may remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of (i) the end of the fiscal year in which the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700.0 million as of the end of the second fiscal quarter, (ii) the end of the fiscal year in which we have total annual gross revenue of $1.07 billion or more during such fiscal year, (iii) the date on which we issue more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt in a three-year period or (iv) December 31, 2021, the end of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the completion of our IPO. For so long as we remain an emerging growth company, we are permitted and intend to rely on exemptions from certain disclosure requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. These exemptions include:. •  not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements in the assessment of our internal control over financial reporting;. •  not being required to comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor's report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements;. •  reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation; and. •  exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved.. We have taken advantage of reduced reporting requirements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In particular, we do not intend to provide all of the executive compensation related information that would be required if we were not an emerging growth company. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be reduced or more volatile. In addition, the JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. This allows an emerging growth company to delay the adoption of these accounting standards until they would otherwise apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption and, therefore, we will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards and the accompanying demands on time and resources as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies face.. We have and expect to continue to incur substantial costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management has and will continue to be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives and corporate governance practices.. As a public company, and particularly after we are no longer an emerging growth company, we have and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the listing requirements of The Nasdaq Global Market and other applicable securities rules and regulations impose various requirements on public companies, including establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations have and will continue to require substantial legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, these rules and regulations make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, which in turn could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors.. 57. We continue to evaluate these rules and regulations and cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. These rules and regulations are often subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices.. Our management team has limited experience managing a public company.. Some members of our management team have limited experience managing a publicly traded company, interacting with public company investors and complying with the increasingly complex laws pertaining to public companies. Our management team may not successfully or efficiently manage our existence as a public company subject to significant regulatory oversight and reporting obligations under the federal securities laws and the continuous scrutiny of securities analysts and investors. These obligations and constituents require significant attention from our senior management and could divert their attention away from the day-to-day management of our business.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If any of the analysts who cover us issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding us, our business model, our intellectual property or our stock performance, or if our regulatory clearance timelines, clinical trial results or operating results fail to meet the expectations of analysts, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. Because we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our capital stock in the foreseeable future, capital appreciation, if any, will be our stockholders' sole source of gain.. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain all of our future earnings, if any, to finance the growth and development of our business. Any future debt agreements may preclude us from paying dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be our stockholders' sole source of gain for the foreseeable future.. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis could be impaired which could adversely impact the market price of our stock.. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the rules and regulations of the stock market on which our common stock is listed. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. We must perform system and process evaluations and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our Form 10-K filing for that year, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. This requires that we incur substantial additional professional fees and internal costs to expand our accounting and finance functions and that we expend significant management efforts.. From time to time, we may identify weaknesses in our system of internal financial and accounting controls and procedures that could result in a material misstatement of our financial statements. Our internal control over financial reporting will not prevent or detect all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud will be detected.. If we are unable to maintain proper and effective internal controls, we may not be able to produce timely and accurate financial statements. If that were to happen, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be. 58. subject to sanctions or investigations by the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed, the SEC or other regulatory authorities."
