[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Our business depends on the success of our two commercialized products, lomitapide and metreleptin. These products may not be successful and may not generate sales at levels sufficient to sustain our operations.. Our business depends on the success of our two commercialized products, lomitapide and metreleptin. We have a limited history of generating revenues from the sale of such products, and we anticipate that we will continue to incur significant costs and expend significant operating and management resources associated with developing and commercializing them. We may not be able to undertake such efforts or investments on a timely basis, at desirable levels or on favorable terms, or at all, including as a result of a decline in our total revenues, insufficient cash flows and overall availability of our resources. Even if we are able to undertake any such efforts and investments, these products may not be successful and may not generate sales at levels sufficient to sustain our operations.. Our ability to meet expectations with respect to sales of these products (and revenues from such sales), and to attain profitability and positive cash flow from operations, in the time periods we anticipate, or at all, will depend on the commercial success of these products in the U.S. and other key markets, which will depend on, among other factors: obtaining or maintaining regulatory approvals for such products, and obtaining or maintaining such regulatory approvals without onerous restrictions or limitations in the resulting label; obtaining or maintaining favorable pricing for and reimbursement of these products in the U.S. and in key countries outside the U.S.; and the availability of financial assistance for individuals who otherwise cannot afford our products. Commercial success of these products will also significantly depend on continued and expanded acceptance by the medical community of, and market demand and medical need for, these products, including, in the case of lomitapide, in light of. 45. the availability of PCSK9 inhibitor products, which has had a significant adverse impact on sales of lomitapide in the U.S. We expect that named patient sales of lomitapide in Brazil in the near-term will continue to be a significant source of revenues; however, we expect net product sales from named patient sales in Brazil and other countries to continue to fluctuate quarter-over-quarter significantly more than sales in the U.S. and other markets where our products are approved for commercial use, which could have a negative impact on our stock price. If lomitapide or metreleptin does not achieve, expand or maintain commercial success, our future operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected, and we may never achieve profitability.. We may not be able to maintain or expand market acceptance for lomitapide or metreleptin in the U.S. or to gain market acceptance in markets outside the U.S. where we commercialize such products, and we may continue to see a significant number of patients who choose not to start or stay on therapy.. The commercial success of lomitapide and metreleptin will depend primarily upon our ability to maintain and expand the acceptance of these products by the medical community, including by physicians and healthcare payers, and by the relevant patients in the U.S., and to gain and maintain such acceptance in countries outside the U.S. where such products are or may be commercialized. The degree of market acceptance of our products will therefore depend on a number of factors, including:. • physicians' views as to the scope of the approved indication and limitations on use and warnings and precautions contained in the approved labeling or prescribing information for our products, including the boxed warnings on the JUXTAPID and MYALEPT labels;. • the extent to which the instructions to patients in the JUXTAPID label to cease therapy upon the occurrence of severe diarrhea and related language about the risk of gastrointestinal issues while on JUXTAPID will negatively affect the ability or willingness of a physician to prescribe JUXTAPID, a patient to be willing to initiate or continue on JUXTAPID therapy, or insurance companies, managed care organizations, other private payers, and government entities that provide reimbursement for medical costs to continue to provide reimbursement for JUXTAPID;. • the willingness of insurance companies, managed care organizations, other private payers, and government entities in the U.S. that provide reimbursement for medical costs to continue to provide reimbursement for JUXTAPID and MYALEPT at the price at which we offer each and without imposing restrictions on the use of the product, such as, for JUXTAPID, requiring adult homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (\"HoFH\") patients to undergo treatment with a  PCSK9 inhibitor product prior to starting JUXTAPID or switching current JUXTAPID patients to PCSK9 inhibitor products, and for MYALEPT, requiring potential patients to first undergo leptin level tests, in each case, which delay or otherwise impact reimbursement;. • the ability and willingness of adult HoFH and GL patients to pay, or to arrange for payment assistance with respect to, any patient cost-sharing amounts for JUXTAPID or MYALEPT applicable under their insurance coverage, and the availability of co-pay assistance;. • the availability, efficacy, safety, tolerability, and pricing of competitive therapies, including, in the case of lomitapide, PCSK9 inhibitor products, which risk is described in more detail under the risk factor \"We are subject to intense competition. If we are unable to compete effectively, we may not be able to achieve our revenue goals or achieve profitability or cash-flow positive operations. Competitive products could render lomitapide or metreleptin, or any other product  or product candidate that we develop or acquire, non-competitive or obsolete, which would have a materially negative impact on our results of operations.\";. • our ability to invest capital, including new capital (which we may not be able to raise in a timely manner, on favorable terms, or at all) into the development and commercialization efforts for our products; and. • the effectiveness of our sales, marketing and distribution strategies and our ability to execute on and achieve these strategies, particularly in light of our recent workforce reduction and cost-containment plan, as well as the continuing challenges to the lomitapide business, including, among other things, the impact of competitive products on JUXTAPID sales, and the use of a contract sales force in Japan.. Further, we may not be able to expand, or even maintain, market share for lomitapide due to the risk of hepatotoxicity, and the enhanced requirements of the recently modified and implemented JUXTAPID Risk Evaluation Management Strategy (\"REMS\") program (as so modified, the \"JUXTAPID REMS program\"), which program includes complex and burdensome certification, education, prescribing and documentation requirements. We may lose JUXTAPID patients temporarily or permanently, or add new adult patients with HoFH at a slower than expected pace, for a variety of reasons, including: the inability. 46. to certify new healthcare professionals on a timely basis or at all; the failure of new healthcare professionals and patients to complete the patient counseling requirements and sign and submit the required patient acknowledgment form on a timely basis or at all; the failure of prescriptions for JUXTAPID to meet all of the requirements of the JUXTAPID REMS program, including any resulting payer issues or delays; and that the more complex and involved efforts to educate healthcare professionals of the goals of the JUXTAPID REMS program, and related documentation, may cause healthcare professionals to stop or delay treatment with JUXTAPID, or try alternative therapies for adult HoFH patients before starting or continuing JUXTAPID treatment. Further, it is possible that the enhanced requirements of the JUXTAPID REMS program will cause JUXTAPID to be viewed as more risky than other therapies, and some healthcare providers and patients may determine that the burdens of the JUXTAPID REMS program, and perceived risks of the therapy, outweigh the benefits of JUXTAPID as compared to other available treatments, which would have a negative impact on JUXTAPID revenues. Further, the JUXTAPID REMS program could discourage insurance companies, managed care organizations, other private payers, and government entities that provide reimbursement for medical costs from continuing to provide reimbursement for JUXTAPID, which would also have a negative impact on JUXTAPID revenues. Even without taking into account the implications of the JUXTAPID REMS program, some physicians and HoFH patients may simply determine that the benefits of lomitapide in reducing low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (\"LDL-C\") levels do not outweigh the risks associated with the product, including those risks described in the boxed warning for JUXTAPID in the U.S. and in the prescribing information for lomitapide in the other countries in which it is approved, which warn that lomitapide can cause hepatotoxicity.. Similarly, MYALEPT is available only through a REMS program (the \"MYALEPT REMS program\"), because of the potential for development of anti-metreleptin antibodies and the associated risks of serious adverse sequelae (such as severe infections, excessive weight gain, glucose intolerance, diabetes mellitus) and risk of lymphoma. As part of this program, we must certify all healthcare providers who prescribe MYALEPT, certify the pharmacies that dispense the medicine, and obtain prescriber attestation that each patient has a diagnosis consistent with GL. Even without taking into account the implications of the MYALEPT REMS program, some physicians and congenital or acquired GL patients may determine that the benefits of metreleptin in treating complications of leptin deficiency in GL do not outweigh the risks of using metreleptin, including those risks set forth in the boxed warning for MYALEPT in the U.S., which label warns of the risk of anti-metreleptin antibodies with neutralizing activity and the risk of lymphoma.. In addition, we have adopted risk management plans in other countries where we have obtained approval of lomitapide to help educate physicians on the safety information for lomitapide and appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients. Other countries that may approve lomitapide or metreleptin may require risk management plans that may be similar to or more onerous than those we have adopted to date. The prescribing information for each product also describes a number of additional contraindications, warnings, and precautions, including those related to pregnancy and potential adverse interactions with other drugs, and other potential adverse reactions, that could limit the market acceptance of lomitapide and metreleptin. These contraindications, warnings, and precautions make it more difficult for some patients to decide to begin therapy or to stay on therapy. GI adverse reactions, which are common with lomitapide and the risk of which can be reduced only by adherence to a low-fat diet, and elevated alanine aminotransferase (\"ALT\") and aspartate aminotransferase (\"AST\") also lead to treatment discontinuation in a significant percentage of lomitapide patients. With respect to metreleptin, concerns related to the route of administration of metreleptin, as a daily injection, may deter some patients from beginning therapy or staying on therapy. As a result, even if a physician prescribes one of our products, the prescription may not result in a patient beginning therapy or staying on therapy.. If we are not able to achieve a high degree of market acceptance of lomitapide in the treatment of adult patients with HoFH and metreleptin in the treatment of GL, we may not be able to achieve our revenue goals or other financial goals or to achieve profitability or cash-flow positive operations in the time periods we expect, or at all, and our results of operations and stock price could be negatively impacted.. We may not have sufficient cash to support further development and growth of our business and we will likely need to raise substantial additional capital in the near term. Raising additional capital may restrict our operations, require us to relinquish rights, including to our products and intellectual property, or cause dilution to our existing shareholders. If additional capital is not available at all or on acceptable terms when we need it, we will have to delay, reduce or cease operations.. Aegerion's level of indebtedness, the significant negative impact of PCSK9 inhibitor products on U.S. JUXTAPID sales, the payments by Aegerion to the government under the Settlement, and the costs and expenses Aegerion has incurred, and expects to continue to incur, in connection with the JUXTAPID Investigations and other ongoing government investigations and related matters have significantly diminished and are expected to further significantly diminish the capital we have to fund anticipated and unanticipated expenses and any strategic needs or opportunities that may arise. These significant expenses coupled with our current and expected revenue levels could leave us with insufficient cash to sustain our operations. Aegerion's current level of indebtedness primarily consists of the Convertible Notes ($325 million principal, due in August 2019), the Senior Loan (with a. 47. current principal amount outstanding of $38.1 million, due in July 2019), and the New Loan ($20 million in principal outstanding as of March 16, 2018, due at the earliest of (i) August 1, 2019, (ii) 30 days prior to the maturity date of the Convertible Notes, (iii) the date that any restructuring or recapitalization of all or substantially all of the Convertible Notes, including any exchange offer or similar transaction, is substantially consummated, and (iv) upon acceleration of the obligations under the New Loan Agreement), as described, and as such terms are defined in the Part I, Item 1 - \"Business - Recent Corporate and Securities Transactions\" section of this Annual Report.. In January 2018, as a result of the challenges we have been facing and in an effort to manage our cash resources, we announced significant operating cost and workforce reduction plans and our intention to review our capital structure. We may need to implement additional cost containment measures based on our expected revenues and expenses, as well as the upcoming maturity of Aegerion's Convertible Notes, the Senior Loan and the New Loan Agreement. There can be no assurance, however, that any cost containment measures, including the recent cost and workforce reductions, will result in the cost savings we anticipate or that additional cost containment measures will be capable of being obtained or implemented. Accordingly, we will likely need to seek additional capital through debt and/or equity financing to service our indebtedness, strengthen our cash position and fund our operations. We may not be able to obtain additional capital when we need it, or such capital may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, particularly while the Convertible Notes, the Senior Loan and the New Loan Agreement are outstanding. We may also pursue opportunities to obtain additional external financing in the future through collaborations, strategic licensing arrangements, lease arrangements related to facilities, in order to, among other things, fund operations or finance potential product acquisitions and maintain sufficient resources for unanticipated events. Any such additional financing may not be available when we need it or may not be available on terms that are favorable to us. Our need to raise additional capital in the near term, the size of any such financings and the availability and terms of any such financings, will depend on many factors, including:. • the success of our commercialization efforts and the level of revenues generated from sales of lomitapide and metreleptin in the U.S., and of lomitapide in other key countries where it is approved and being commercialized, including Japan;. • the status of ongoing or recently concluded government investigations and lawsuits, such as the Settlement and the JUXTAPID Investigations, including relevant obligations, the disclosure of possible or actual outcomes, and the negative publicity surrounding such matters, and the costs associated with the resolution of these investigations and lawsuits, including the civil penalties, restitution and settlement amounts discussed in the \"Legal Proceedings\" section of this Annual Report and the cost of implementing and complying with the CIA, the DPA, and the FDA Consent Decree and criminal probation terms;. • the timing and costs of satisfying our debt obligations, including interest payments and any amounts due upon the maturity of such debt, including under the indebtedness described above;. • the level of revenues we receive from named patient sales of our products in Brazil and other key countries where a mechanism exists to sell the product on a pre-approval basis in such country based on U.S. approval of such products or EU approval of lomitapide, particularly in light of the regulatory approval of Amgen's PCSK9 inhibitor product in Brazil in April 2016, the potential availability of that and other PCSK9 inhibitor products on a named patient sales basis in Brazil, the additional requirements that have been recently imposed on named patient sales of pharmaceutical products in Brazil, including our products, and potential future additional requirements or limitations, and the ongoing court proceedings in Brazil reviewing the regulatory framework for named patient sales;. • the level of physician, patient and payer acceptance of lomitapide and metreleptin, and the extent of the negative impact of and other risks associated with the availability of PCSK9 inhibitor products on sales of JUXTAPID in the U.S.;. • our ability to continue to manage our costs and expenses to better align with our revenues and strengthen our capital structure, while supporting approved products in a compliant manner;. • our ability to provide security to collateralize any financings, which may be required by lenders as a condition to providing us with any funding, particularly given the fact that substantially all of Aegerion's assets have been pledged as collateral under the Senior Loan and the New Loan Agreement, including the intellectual property of metreleptin and lomitapide;. • gaining regulatory and pricing and reimbursement approvals to market our products in countries in which the products are not currently approved and/or reimbursed, where it makes business sense to seek such approval, without significant restrictions, discounts, caps or other cost containment measures, including regulatory and pricing and reimbursement approval of metreleptin in the EU for both GL and the PL subgroup, in connection with which we filed an MAA in the EMA in December 2016, and the timing and costs of seeking such approvals;. 48. • the timing and cost of lifecycle management and clinical development activities, particularly our anticipated trial assessing metreleptin in patients with hypoleptinemic metabolic disorder (\"HMD\");. • the willingness of insurance companies, managed care organizations, other private payers, and government entities that provide reimbursement for medical costs in the U.S. to continue to provide reimbursement for our products at the prices at which we offer our products without imposing any additional major hurdles to access or other significant restrictions or limitations, and the ability and willingness of HoFH and GL patients to pay, or to arrange for payment assistance with respect to, any patient cost-sharing amounts for our products applicable under their insurance coverage, particularly in light of recent reductions in contributions to 501(c)(3) patient organizations by pharmaceutical companies;. • the cost of maintaining the sales and marketing capabilities necessary for the commercialization of our products for their targeted indications in the market(s) in which each has received regulatory approval and we elect to commercialize such products, to the extent reimbursement and pricing approvals are obtained, and certain other key international markets, if approved;. • the timing and costs of future business development opportunities;. • the cost of filing, prosecuting and enforcing patent claims, including the cost of defending any challenges to the patents or our claims of exclusivity;. • the costs of our manufacturing-related activities and the other costs of commercializing our products;. • the levels, timing and collection of revenues received from sales of our products in the future;. • whether we are successful in our efforts to defend ourselves in, or to settle on acceptable terms, any significant litigation, including litigation that may result, directly or indirectly from the Settlement; and. • the cost of our current and future observational cohort studies and other post-marketing commitments, including to the FDA, the EMA and in any other countries where our products are ultimately approved.. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership interest of our existing shareholders will be diluted, and the terms may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of our shareholders. For example, our existing shareholders may be diluted if the Convertible Notes or the warrants issued in connection with the New Loan Agreement are converted into Novelion common shares. Additional debt financing similar to or more burdensome than our outstanding debt, if available, could result in increased fixed payment obligations and may involve agreements that include granting of collateral, subordinating the seniority of our security interests to Aegerion's assets under the Senior Loan to Aegerion, granting instruments convertible into our equity, and impose additional covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions such as incurring debt, making capital expenditures, undertaking business development activities or declaring dividends. If we raise additional funds through collaboration, strategic alliance and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies, future revenue streams or product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us.. We may be unable to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, at required levels, in a timely manner, or at all. If we are unable to obtain additional financing, including for purposes of settling conversions of the Convertible Notes, or repaying the Senior Loan or amounts under the New Loan Agreement, we may be required to delay, reduce or cease operations, including our planned development, sales and marketing and business development efforts. Any of these outcomes would harm our business, financial condition and operating results. The source, timing, terms and availability of any future financing will depend principally upon equity and debt market conditions, interest rates and, more specifically, on our commercial success, the status of Aegerion's ongoing government investigations, including the Investigation, and the results of our future development efforts.. Servicing Aegerion's debt requires a significant amount of cash. Aegerion may not have sufficient cash from its business to make payments on its debt, and it may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to settle conversions of, or to repurchase, the Convertible Notes upon a fundamental change, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations on a consolidated basis, and our ability to respond to changes in our business.. In August 2014, Aegerion incurred indebtedness in the amount of $325.0 million in aggregate principal with additional accrued interest under the Convertible Notes, for which interest is payable semi-annually in arrears on February 15 and August 15 of each year.. 49. On June 14, 2016, Aegerion entered into the Senior Loan Agreement pursuant to which Aegerion could initially borrow up to $15.0 million used to fund Aegerion's working capital. Since the consummation of the business combination, Aegerion has continued to borrow pursuant to the terms of the Senior Loan Agreement, which has been amended from time to time, including on March 15, 2018 pursuant to the Amended and Restated Senior Loan Agreement. As of March 15, 2018, there was approximately $38.1 million outstanding under the Amended and Restated Senior Loan Agreement, including all accrued interest paid in kind.  The Senior Loan accrues interest at the rate of 8.0% per annum (which increases by 3.0% in connection with an event of default), which accrues and compounds quarterly in arrears until July 1, 2019, the maturity date of the Senior Loan. Also on March 15, 2018, Aegerion entered into the New Loan Agreement with the Lenders, pursuant to which the Lenders provided a single-draw term loan to Aegerion in an aggregate amount of $20.0 million, and secured by substantially all of Aegerion's assets, subordinated to the Senior Loan. Interest on the New Loan accrues at 9.0% per annum, and the New Loan matures on the earliest of (i) August 1, 2019, (ii) 30 days prior to the maturity date of the Convertible Notes, (iii) the date that any restructuring or recapitalization of all or substantially all of the Convertible Notes, including any exchange offer or similar transaction, is substantially consummated, and (iv) upon acceleration of the obligations under the New Loan Agreement.. Aegerion's business may not generate sufficient cash from operations to service its debt. If Aegerion is unable to generate such cash, it may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling or licensing one or both of its products, or portions of its rights thereto, such as rights to certain geographies or key markets, further reducing the size of its workforce and curtailing operations and planned development activities, restructuring debt or obtaining financing on terms that may be onerous, if such financing is available at all. Aegerion's ability to refinance this indebtedness will depend on the debt and capital markets, which are unpredictable, and our financial condition on a consolidated basis at such time. Aegerion may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could cause a default on these debt obligations, resulting in a materially adverse effect on our consolidated business.. Aegerion's significant indebtedness, and our financial obligations and contractual commitments, including the payments Aegerion is required to make under the Settlement, could materially and adversely affect our ability to finance our operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. For example, they could:. • limit our ability to borrow additional amounts, or raise additional capital through equity or other types of financings, for supporting our operations, including for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, payment of expenses, general corporate purposes or other purposes;. • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and. • make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general U.S. and worldwide economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation.. In addition, we cannot be sure that additional financing will be available when required or, if available at all, will be on terms satisfactory to us. Further, even if we are able to obtain additional financing, the terms may impose burdensome constraints, including conditions on how we can operate our business, and we may be required to use proceeds to repay a portion of Aegerion's debt and subordinate our security interest in Aegerion's assets which secures the Senior Loan to Aegerion. Holders of the Convertible Notes have the right to require the repurchase of their notes for cash upon the occurrence of a fundamental change at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the respective principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. Subject to certain exceptions as provided in the indenture governing the Convertible Notes, a fundamental change includes (a) delisting of Novelion's common shares, (b) liquidation of Aegerion, (c) the acquisition of 50% or more of the voting interests in Aegerion, (d) an event in which Aegerion merges or consolidates with another entity and (e) an event in which Aegerion conveys, sells, transfers or leases all or substantially all of its assets to another entity. Among the exceptions provided in the indenture are for transactions described in (c), (d) and (e) in which (i) Aegerion's common stock holders immediately prior to the transaction have the right to exercise, directly or indirectly, 50% or more of the total voting power of the capital stock of the continuing or surviving entity or transferee or parent thereof following the transaction or (ii) 90% of the consideration paid for Aegerion's common stock in a transaction consists of stock that is or will be quoted on the New York Stock Exchange or NASDAQ.. Further, unless Aegerion elects to deliver our common shares to settle any conversions of Convertible Notes, Aegerion would be required to settle a portion or all of the conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect its liquidity. Aegerion may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time it is required to make repurchases of Convertible Notes surrendered therefor or Convertible Notes being converted. The failure to repurchase Convertible Notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the indenture or to pay any cash payable on future conversions of the Convertible Notes as required by the indenture would constitute a default under the indenture. A default under the indenture or a fundamental change. 50. itself could also lead to a default under agreements governing our or Aegerion's current and future indebtedness, including the Senior Loan and the New Loan. If the repayment of such indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, Aegerion may not have sufficient funds to repay such indebtedness and repurchase the Convertible Notes or make cash payments upon conversions thereof or other required payments on its other indebtedness. In addition, even if holders of the Convertible Notes do not elect to convert their Convertible Notes, Aegerion could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the Convertible Notes as a current rather than non-current liability, which would result in a material reduction of Aegerion's net working capital, possibly creating a working capital deficit.. Further, Aegerion's obligations under the Settlement, or other obligations that may be imposed in connection with other investigations with governmental agencies, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise capital or borrow funds that might be necessary to fund our operations.. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations on a consolidated basis. In addition, if we or Aegerion incur additional indebtedness, the risks related to our business and our ability to service or repay our indebtedness would increase.. Aegerion's resolution of investigations with governmental agencies, including the DOJ and the SEC, in connection with its U.S. commercial activities and disclosures related to JUXTAPID could have a material adverse effect on our business, including our ability to raise capital, results of operations, and financial condition. The Investigation and Settlement could result in additional third party claims or litigation, which could be costly to resolve.. On September 22, 2017, Aegerion entered into a series of agreements in an effort to resolve investigations being conducted by the DOJ and the SEC regarding Aegerion's U.S. commercial activities and disclosures related to JUXTAPID (the \"JUXTAPID Investigations\"). Under these agreements, Aegerion is or will become obligated under these various agreements and judgments (collectively referred to as the \"Settlement\"), including a plea agreement with the DOJ (the \"Plea Agreement\"), a civil settlement agreement with the DOJ (the \"Civil Settlement Agreement\"), separate civil settlement agreements with multiple U.S. states, a final judgment entered in connection with a complaint filed by the SEC, a three-year deferred prosecution agreement with the DOJ (the \"DPA\"), the five-year corporate integrity agreement with the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services (the \"CIA\"), and a pending civil consent decree with the FDA and the DOJ relating to the JUXTAPID REMS (the \"FDA Consent Decree\"). Each of these Settlement agreements is described in the \"Legal Proceedings\" section of this Annual Report. On January 30, 2018, a U.S. District Court (the \"Court\") judge sentenced Aegerion after the judge accepted Aegerion's guilty criminal plea. The terms of the sentence are identical, in terms of monetary impact to Aegerion, to the terms recommended by the DOJ and Aegerion in the Plea Agreement. The Court did not impose a criminal fine and instead established a restitution fund in the amount of $7.2 million, which includes administration costs, to be paid in installments over three years, plus interest on any unpaid balance at a rate of 1.75% per annum. As contemplated by the Plea Agreement, the Court put Aegerion on probation for three years and required Aegerion to not waste, or without permission of Aegerion's probation officer, sell, assign or transfer its assets.. Under the terms of the agreements and the sentence, Aegerion is required to pay approximately $40.1 million penalties, plus interest, over three years, which includes the restitution described above, a civil penalty of $4.1 million to be paid to the SEC pursuant to an SEC Judgment, and $28.8 million, including ($2.7 million designated for certain states), to be paid pursuant to the Civil Settlement Agreement, which is a significant financial burden given Aegerion's financial condition. Aegerion made an initial payment to the DOJ on February 12, 2018, and an initial payment to certain states on February 15, 2018. On February 20, 2018, the DOJ filed a stipulation of dismissal in the civil qui tam matter. The FDA Consent Decree remains subject to approval by a U.S. District Court Judge.. Pursuant to the Settlement, Aegerion is also required to implement various remedial and compliance measures, which could negatively impact our results of operations, as such efforts will require Aegerion to expend significant costs and resources and will divert those resources from investing in the commercialization of our products and other potential development and growth initiatives. Further, Aegerion has no experience in complying with a settlement of this type and magnitude and may be unsuccessful in implementing all of the elements of the Settlement in a timely or satisfactory manner, or at all. Failure to comply with any provisions of the Settlement could result in the imposition of additional fines, penalties and obligations by the applicable government agency, and could subject Aegerion to prosecution.. For example, the CIA, which has taken effect, requires Aegerion, among other things, to: maintain a compliance program that includes comprehensive written policies and procedures and appropriate conduct related to sales, marketing, reimbursement, incentive compensation and other matters; conduct training and education regarding the compliance program and requirements of the CIA; conduct an independent review and analysis of Aegerion's systems, transactions, risk assessment and mitigation process and other compliance activities; maintain a disclosure program that allows individuals to report issues or questions associated with. 51. Aegerion's policies, conduct, practices or procedures; have a field force monitoring program to evaluate and monitor sales personnel's interactions with healthcare professionals; monitor non-promotional activities, including consultants, donations to independent third party patient assistance programs and other types of grants; have certain requirements for the variable compensation programs for its U.S. sales personnel; and have an executive financial recoupment program that puts at risk of forfeiture and recoupment performance pay for certain of Aegerion's and the Company's executives. Aegerion also has reporting obligations under the CIA, including with respect to any ongoing investigation or legal proceeding involving an allegation that Aegerion has engaged in any fraudulent activities or committed a crime, any communications with the FDA regarding improper promotion or marketing of Aegerion's products and any probable violations of criminal, civil or administrative laws applicable to federal healthcare programs. In the event Aegerion breaches the CIA, the government could seek to impose remedies provided for in the CIA, including seeking to impose stipulated penalties against Aegerion and/or seeking to exclude Aegerion from participation in federal healthcare programs.. Similarly, the DPA, which has also taken effect, provides that Aegerion must continue to cooperate fully with the DOJ concerning its investigation into other individuals or entities. The DPA also provides that Aegerion must maintain a robust Compliance and Ethics Program (as defined in the DPA) that consists of, among other things, a designated Compliance Officer and Compliance Committee; written compliance policies and procedures; a training program focused on Aegerion's compliance policies and procedures; a disclosure program to allow individuals to report potential legal and/or compliance violations, including violations of HIPAA; a non-retaliation policy; and a monitoring and auditing program. Under the DPA, Aegerion, as well as the Board of Directors of the Company (or a designated committee thereof), must also conduct regular reviews of its Compliance and Ethics Program, provide certifications to the DOJ that the program is believed to be effective and notify the DOJ of any probable violations of HIPAA. In the event Aegerion breaches the DPA, there is a risk the government would seek to impose remedies provided for in the DPA, including instituting criminal prosecution against Aegerion and/or seeking to impose stipulated penalties against Aegerion.. The FDA Consent Decree, which is still pending, requires Aegerion, among other things, to comply with the JUXTAPID REMS program; retain a qualified independent auditor to conduct annual audits of its compliance with the JUXTAPID REMS program; and remediate any noncompliance identified by the auditor within specified timeframes. In the event Aegerion fails to comply with the JUXTAPID REMS program or any other provisions of the FDA Consent Decree, Aegerion could be subject to additional administrative remedies, civil or criminal penalties and/or stipulated damages. Aegerion is required to notify the FDA in advance of certain changes in control, or changes in its business that may affect its operations, assets, rights or liabilities in the U.S.. Also, in the event Aegerion fails to comply with the terms of the criminal probation, it could be subject to criminal penalties and/or damages. Further, the JUXTAPID Investigations and the Settlement have resulted in third party demands and may in the future give rise to third party demands, claims or litigation, including demands or claims by, or litigation with, third party payers, healthcare providers, or patients or investors, for matters related to the subject matter of or disclosure in connection with such Investigations or the Settlement. For example, Aegerion has received two demand letters, one from an insurance company, seeking reimbursement for the JUXTAPID claims it paid based on alleged false misrepresentations made by Aegerion, and the second from an investor in Aegerion's Convertible Notes alleging that it purchased the notes based on misrepresentations and omissions.  The JUXTAPID Investigations and the Settlements could also lead to potential investigations, claims or litigation by consumer protection agencies or groups (including State Attorneys General consumer protection units), or provide a basis for product liability claims or litigation. Such claims or investigations, regardless of the merits, can be costly to resolve, and may lead to lengthy litigation and settlement negotiations, the results of which could require us to pay significant amounts of damages.  Such third party claims often unfold in a public manner, and any public claims can encourage further claims from additional third parties.. The results of the JUXTAPID Investigations (including the Settlement) could also have adverse effects on Aegerion's commercial operations, research and development activities, contracts or business in general because:. • the JUXTAPID Investigations have diverted, and compliance with the terms of the Settlement will divert resources away from developing and commercializing lomitapide and metreleptin, and our ability to meet expectations with respect to sales of these products may be negatively impacted;. • despite remedial efforts, the reputational harm from the JUXTAPID Investigations and the Settlement (including in connection with the Court's initial rejection of the Plea Agreement) could subject us to increased governmental, industry and public scrutiny or criticism, which could negatively impact physicians' inclination to prescribe (or patients' willingness to use) our products, or dissuade vendors, distributors, partners or other third parties from working or collaborating with us or Aegerion;. 52. • the JUXTAPID Investigations have diverted, and compliance with the Settlement may continue to divert, the attention of management from operating our business, and may be disruptive to our employees, result in employee attrition, and make it more difficult to attract qualified candidates for employment;. • our business development efforts may be limited as we will have fewer resources available to pursue our commercialization efforts and potential strategic acquisitions or licensing arrangements, and because certain payments under the Settlement could be accelerated in connection with certain transfers of Aegerion's rights in our products or other business combinations; and. • our stock price may suffer, and our ability to raise capital in the future on favorable terms or at all may be adversely affected, depending on the perception of the terms of the Settlement (and in connection with underlying Investigations) and any adverse consequences that may result from the Settlement, including if we are unable to comply with the Settlement, or if the Settlement results in additional litigation or investigations.. The Settlement could encourage investigations by foreign governments, or we may face additional investigations by U.S. federal, state or local agencies for activities that were not covered by the releases provided in the Settlement or our other operations (including international operations), especially in light of the government's recitation of its assessment of the background of the investigation in the criminal filings made by the government and in the Civil Settlement Agreement as well as the Court's commentary in connection with its rejection of the Plea Agreement in September 2017.  For example, the Settlement did not resolve the DOJ and SEC's investigations into Aegerion's operations in Brazil or the DOJ's inquiry into donations Aegerion made in 2015 and 2016 to 501(c)(3) organizations that provide financial assistance to patients. Aegerion continues to cooperate with the DOJ and the SEC with respect to such matters.. Any additional claims or investigations could distract management, and may not be covered by our D&O insurance and accordingly could cause our legal costs to increase. The outcome of any such inquiries could have a material and negative effect on our business.. Further, the Settlement did not resolve the DOJ and SEC investigations into the conduct of individuals. Aegerion continues to cooperate with the DOJ and the SEC with respect to such investigations. Additionally, the Settlements do not resolve civil claims brought by relators against certain former employees, officers, directors and other third parties. In March 2014, an amended qui tam complaint was filed under seal in the District of Massachusetts against Aegerion, two former executive officers and a former employee, and on September 27, 2017, the qui tam relators filed a second amended complaint naming additional parties, including a former board member, former executives, and former employees of Aegerion, as well as other third parties. On February 20, 2018, the DOJ filed a stipulation of dismissal with respect to Aegerion in the civil qui tam matter. Aegerion is required under its bylaws to advance the reasonable legal costs and expenses of certain former executives and has and may elect to continue to advance such costs and expenses to certain other former and current employees, and other third parties with respect to their involvement in the JUXTAPID Investigations and in connection with their involvement in the civil suit brought by relators. These costs and expenses will continue to have a significant impact on Aegerion's costs in 2018 and perhaps beyond, although we expect that Aegerion's legal expenses for the JUXTAPID Investigations will continue to decrease year over year in the aggregate.. A number of adverse effects have been reported in our clinical studies for lomitapide and metreleptin, and the prescribing information for each of lomitapide and metreleptin contains significant limitations on use and other important warnings and precautions, including boxed warnings in the U.S. labeling, any of which could negatively affect the market acceptance, dropout rates and marketing approval for our products. Post-marketing commitments could identify additional adverse events and safety or efficacy risks, which could further harm the market for lomitapide and metreleptin.. The prescribing information for lomitapide in the U.S. and the EU and in the other countries in which lomitapide is approved contains significant limitations on use and other important warnings and precautions, including a boxed warning in the JUXTAPID labeling, and warnings in the prescribing information for LOJUXTA (lomitapide) hard capsules (\"LOJUXTA\") citing concerns over liver toxicity associated with use of lomitapide.  The MYALEPT label in the U.S. has a boxed warning, citing the risk of anti-metreleptin antibodies with neutralizing activity and risk of lymphoma.. As discussed under the heading \"Phase 3 Clinical Study (HoFH),\" patients reported various adverse reactions in our Phase 3 study of lomitapide, including reports of gastrointestinal events by 93% of patients, and in our HoFH clinical trial, including diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, dyspepsia, abdominal pain, weight loss, abdominal discomfort, abdominal distension, constipation, flatulence, increased ALT, chest pain, influenza, nasopharyngitis, and fatigue. Elevations in liver enzymes and hepatic (liver) fat were also observed.. 53. As discussed under the heading \"Phase 3 Clinical Study (GL),\" GL patients in our Phase 3 study of metreleptin reported various adverse drug reactions, including weight loss, hypoglycemia, decreased appetite, fatigue, neutralizing antibodies and alopecia. Additionally, although none were assessed as drug related, there have been four reported treatment-emergent deaths over the course of the 14-year study duration, which reports were consistent with the underlying morbidity of lipodystrophy and included renal failure, cardiac arrest (with pancreatitis and septic shock), progressive end-stage liver disease (chronic hepatic failure), and hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy. In the open-label, long-term, investigator-sponsored study of metreleptin for the treatment of metabolic disorders associated with LD syndromes initiated in 2000 and conducted at the National Institutes of Health (\"NIH\"), there have been two cases of peripheral T-cell lymphoma and one case of a localized anaplastic lymphoma kinase-positive anaplastic large cell lymphoma (a type of T-cell lymphoma) reported in patients with acquired GL (there was evidence of pre-existing lymphoma and/or bone marrow/hematologic abnormalities in the two patients with peripheral T-cell lymphoma before metreleptin therapy, and the third case of anaplastic large cell lymphoma occurred in the context of a specific chromosomal translocation).. These adverse events, coupled with the boxed warnings and other label restrictions, could cause healthcare providers, regulators and patients or potential patients to view the risks associated with our products as outweighing the benefits such products provide, which could cause patients to discontinue use and limit the number of new patients, thereby negatively affecting our revenues.. As part of our post-marketing commitment to the FDA for lomitapide, we have initiated an observational cohort study to generate more data on the long-term safety profile of lomitapide, the patterns of use and compliance and the long-term effectiveness of controlling LDL-C levels. As part of the post-marketing commitments to the FDA for metreleptin, we have initiated a long-term, prospective, observational study (product exposure registry) in patients to evaluate serious risks related to the use of the product. We have completed two of three sequential programs to expand the understanding of the immunogenicity of metreleptin and certain studies related to the manufacturing of metreleptin. The final program regarding the immunogenicity of metreleptin is expected to be initiated in 2018, and the two final post-marketing studies related to the manufacturing of metreleptin are expected to be completed by the deadlines set by the FDA. A failure to meet post-marketing commitments to the FDA, EMA or other regulatory authorities could impact our ability to continue to market lomitapide or metreleptin, respectively, in countries where we are unable to meet such commitments.. In addition, as part of our observational cohort studies or in the conduct of additional clinical studies or in post-marketing surveillance of our products, or if any completed clinical study data is re-evaluated, we or others may identify additional safety information on known or unknown side effects or new undesirable side effects caused by our products, or the data may raise other issues with respect to our products, and, in that event, a number of potentially significant negative consequences could result, including:. • we may experience a negative impact on market acceptance and dropout rates;. • regulatory authorities may suspend, withdraw or alter their approval of the relevant product;. • regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, such as warnings or contraindications or distribution and use restrictions, such as, for example, the modifications to the JUXTAPID label to include language instructing patients to cease therapy upon the occurrence of severe diarrhea;. • regulatory authorities may require us to issue specific communications to healthcare professionals, such as \"Dear Doctor\" letters;. • negative publicity, including safety communications;. • we may be required to change the way the relevant product is administered, conduct additional preclinical studies or clinical trials or restrict the distribution or use of the relevant product;. • patients could suffer harm, and we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients;. • the regulatory authorities may require us to amend the relevant REMS program or risk management plan; and. • our reputation may suffer.. Any known safety concerns for our products, or any unknown safety issues that may develop or surface, including drug interaction problems or an increase in the severity or frequency of known adverse events or the discovery of previously unknown adverse events, or the evaluation or reevaluation of study data could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance. 54. of the respective product, affect our ability to obtain or retain marketing approval of the respective product in one or more countries, result in onerous restrictions on such approval or the implementation or modification of REMS program or any other enforcement actions, result in claims, lawsuits and increased regulatory scrutiny and affect our ability to achieve our financial goals.. If we fail to obtain or maintain orphan drug or data and marketing exclusivity for our products in any country where exclusivity is available (including the U.S.) or our patent position does not adequately protect our products in any country, we will be unable to prevent competitors from selling generic versions of our products and others could compete against us more directly, which would harm our business, possibly materially.. We rely on a combination of regulatory exclusivities and patents in the conduct of our business. We have obtained orphan drug exclusivity for JUXTAPID in the U.S. for the treatment of HoFH (which expires in December 2019). JUXTAPID's new chemical entity (\"NCE\") exclusivity expired on December 21, 2017, and, as such, an Abbreviated New Drug Application (an \"ANDA\") or 505(b)(2) NDA was submittable for JUXTAPID as of December 21, 2016, which lowers the barriers to entry for generic competitors. If one or more ANDA filers were to receive approval to sell a generic or follow-on version of JUXTAPID, those competitor products could potentially be marketed, and we would become subject to increased competition in the U.S., as early as December 21, 2019, the date on which JUXTAPID's orphan drug exclusivity ends, although we expect that any such launch would be delayed until at least February 21, 2020, the date on which JUXTAPID's composition of matter patent expires. The recent expiration of JUXTAPID'S NCE exclusivity and upcoming expiration of its orphan drug exclusivity make our patent protection even more critical.. Our lomitapide patent portfolio, which is described in detail under the heading \"Patent Rights and Regulatory Exclusivity\" in this Annual Report, includes a method-of-use patent that provides protection in the U.S. until 2027. There is currently no intellectual property protection or any orphan drug, data, or marketing exclusivity for lomitapide in the U.S. beyond 2027.. We have obtained orphan drug exclusivity for MYALEPT in the U.S. for the treatment of GL (which expires in February 2021). In the U.S., we also believe that metreleptin qualifies for a 12-year period of exclusivity, which will expire in 2026, under the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act (the \"BPCI Act\").. Our metreleptin patent portfolio, which is described in detail under the heading \"Patent Rights and Regulatory Exclusivity\" in this Annual Report, includes a method-of-use patent that provides protection in the U.S. until 2027. There is currently no intellectual property protection or any orphan drug, data, or marketing exclusivity for metreleptin in the U.S. beyond 2027. New indications for metreleptin are being investigated, including HMD, but it is not certain whether additional intellectual property designed to cover such indications or other forms of intellectual property can be obtained or will adequately protect us from competition.. We have also pursued or may pursue orphan drug designation and equivalent exclusivity opportunities for our products outside of the U.S. Despite the prevalence rate, lomitapide does not have orphan medicinal product exclusivity in the EU for the treatment of HoFH because the EMA views the relevant condition, for orphan drug purposes, to include both HoFH and heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (\"HeFH\"). Our non-U.S. patents for lomitapide, including the European Patent Office (\"EPO\") methods of use patent, expire in 2025. The EPO method of use patents are eligible for up to about three years of supplemental protection in certain EPO countries, and we have applied for such protection in the countries in which LOJUXTA is approved, on a country-by-country basis; in some countries supplemental protection has been granted to extend patent protection to July or August of 2028, while in other countries the application is still pending. An opposition was filed with respect to the EPO method of use patent, but has since been revoked. In Japan, where we launched JUXTAPID in December 2016, we have received orphan drug designation for JUXTAPID in the treatment of HoFH from Japan's regulatory authority, the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare (\"MHLW\") (which expires in September 2026). The patents issued in Japan directed to lomitapide methods-of-use are scheduled to expire in 2025 and may be eligible for supplemental protection until 2026.. In 2012, metreleptin was granted orphan designation by the EC for the treatment of Barraquer-Simons syndrome (acquired partial lipodystrophy (\"PL\")), Berardinelli-Seip syndrome (congenital GL), Lawrence syndrome (acquired GL) and familial PL, which is expected to expire 10 years from approval of any such indication by the EMA. If approved by the EMA, metreleptin would also be entitled to 10 years of market exclusivity in the EU. The patent issued in the EU directed to metreleptin methods-of-use expires in 2022.. We also have other forms of regulatory exclusivity for our products in certain other markets. However, there are many other countries, including some key markets for our products, like Brazil, in which we do not have intellectual property coverage for our products, and where neither orphan drug exclusivity nor data and marketing exclusivity is available. As with the U.S., without orphan drug or other forms of exclusivity in countries where we currently or plan to commercialize our products (if. 55. approved), we could face generic competition in the near term, particularly if no other intellectual property coverage, including other types of exclusivity, is available.. Our commercial success with respect to our products will depend significantly on our ability to obtain and maintain regulatory exclusivity for our products and to protect our existing patent position with respect to our products, as well as our ability to obtain and maintain adequate protection of other intellectual property for any future products or product candidates we may acquire in the U.S. and other countries. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors, including companies that sell generics, may be able to erode or negate any competitive advantage we may have, which could harm our business and ability to achieve our expected financial results. Our ability to use the patents and patent applications licensed to us to protect our business will also depend on our ability to comply with the terms of the applicable licenses and other agreements and to obtain requisite licenses. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S., and we may encounter significant problems in protecting our proprietary rights in these countries.. The patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, including our patent position described in detail under the heading \"Patent Rights\" in this Annual Report, involve complex legal and factual questions, and, therefore, validity and enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. Patents may be challenged, deemed unenforceable, invalidated or circumvented. U.S. patents and patent applications may also be subject to interference proceedings, ex parte reexamination, inter partes review (\"IPR\") and post-grant review proceedings and supplemental examination and may be challenged in district court. Patents granted in certain other countries may be subjected to opposition or comparable proceedings lodged in various national and regional patent offices. These proceedings could result in either loss of the patent or denial of the patent application or loss or reduction in the scope of one or more of the claims of the patent or patent application. In addition, such interference, re-examination, opposition, post-grant review, IPR, supplemental examination or revocation proceedings may be costly. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies and any future products or product candidates are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets.. For example, on August 28, 2015, the Coalition for Affordable Drugs VIII L.L.C. (the \"CFAD\") filed two separate IPR petitions with the Patent Trial and Appeal Board (the \"PTAB\") of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, challenging the validity of U.S. Patent Nos. 7,932,268, and 8,618,135, which are directed to methods-of-use for lomitapide. Although on March 6, 2017, the PTAB determined that the CFAD failed to show that the claims of these patents were unpatentable, we cannot predict whether an appeal or a request for a rehearing on this determination will be filed, or if additional IPR challenges will be filed by another entity, or the outcome of any future IPR, and responding to such claims is costly and diverts our limited resources from other business activities.. In the U.S., the Hatch-Waxman Act established a patent restoration term of up to five years as compensation for patent term lost during product development and the FDA regulatory review process. However, we may not be granted an extension in a particular country if we, for example, fail to apply within applicable deadlines, fail to apply prior to expiration of relevant patents or otherwise fail to satisfy applicable requirements. Moreover, the applicable time period of the extension or the scope of patent protection afforded could be less than we request. If we are unable to obtain patent term extension or restoration of the term of any such extension is shorter than we request, our competitors, including manufacturers of generic alternatives, may obtain approval of competing products following expiration of our patents, and regulatory exclusivity, if any, and our revenues could be reduced, possibly materially.. Even if we obtain orphan drug exclusivity for a product, that exclusivity may not effectively protect the product from competition because different drugs can be approved for the same condition. For example, in the U.S., even after an orphan drug is approved, the FDA can subsequently approve the same drug for the same condition if the FDA concludes that the later drug is safer, more effective or makes a major contribution to patient care, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. With the enactment of the BPCI Act, an abbreviated pathway for the approval of biosimilar and interchangeable biological products was created. Under the BPCI Act, an application for a biosimilar product cannot be approved by the FDA until 12 years after the original reference product was approved under a BLA. The law is complex and is still being interpreted and implemented by the FDA. As a result, its ultimate impact, implementation, and meaning are subject to uncertainty. While it is uncertain when such processes intended to implement the BPCI Act may be fully adopted by the FDA, any such processes could have a material adverse effect on the future commercial prospects for metreleptin. In particular, the approval of a biological product biosimilar to one of our products could have a material negative impact on our business because it may be significantly less costly to bring to market and may be priced significantly lower than our products. While we believe that metreleptin, which is approved under a BLA, qualifies for the 12-year period of exclusivity, there is a risk that this exclusivity could be shortened due to congressional action or otherwise, or that the FDA will not consider metreleptin to be a reference product for competing products, potentially creating the opportunity for competition sooner than anticipated. Moreover, the extent to which a biosimilar, once approved, will. 56. be substituted for metreleptin in a way that is similar to traditional generic substitution for non-biological products is not yet clear, and will depend on a number of marketplace and regulatory factors that are still developing.. Innovative medicinal products authorized in the EU on the basis of a full marketing authorization application (as opposed to an application for marketing authorization that relies on data in the marketing authorization dossier for another, previously approved medicinal product) are entitled to eight years' data exclusivity. During this period, applicants for approval of generics of these innovative products cannot rely on data contained in the marketing authorization dossier submitted for the innovative medicinal product. Innovative medicinal products are also entitled to ten years' market exclusivity. During this ten-year period no generic medicinal product can be placed on the EU market. The ten-year period of market exclusivity can be extended to a maximum of 11 years if, during the first eight years of those ten years, the Marketing Authorization Holder for the innovative product obtains an authorization for one or more new therapeutic indications which, during the scientific evaluation prior to their authorization, are held to bring a significant clinical benefit in comparison with existing therapies. If we are not able to gain or exploit the period of data exclusivity, we may face significant competitive threats to our commercialization of these compounds from other manufacturers, including the manufacturers of generic alternatives. Further, despite exclusivity protections, another company nevertheless could market another version of our product if such company submits a full NDA or a full application for marketing authorization in the EU with a complete human clinical trial program and obtains marketing approval of its product.. The degree of future protection for our products and proprietary rights is uncertain, and we cannot ensure that:. • we will be able to successfully develop or commercialize our product before some or all of our relevant patents or regulatory exclusivity expire, or in countries where we do not have patent protection or exclusivity;. • we or our licensors were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications and patents;. • we or our licensors were the first to file patent applications for these inventions;. • others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies;. • any of our pending patent applications or those we have licensed will result in issued patents;. • any of our patents or those we have licensed will be valid or enforceable;. • we are able to license patents or pending patents that are necessary or desirable to enforce or protect our patent rights on commercially reasonable terms or at all;. • any patents issued to us or our licensors and collaborators will provide a basis for any additional commercially viable products, will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties;. • we will develop additional proprietary technologies or product candidates that are patentable;. • orphan drug exclusivity marketing rights for our products in the U.S. will not be lost, if, for example, the FDA determines in the future that the request for orphan drug designation was materially defective or if the manufacturer is unable to assure sufficient quantity of the drug to meet the needs of patients with the rare disease or condition; or. • the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our business.. If we do not obtain or maintain regulatory exclusivity and/or patent protection for our products, our business may be materially harmed.. The number of patients affected by the diseases for which our products are approved, or for which we may seek approval in the near term, is small, and has not been established with precision. Our assumptions and estimates regarding prevalence may be wrong. If the actual number of patients is smaller than we estimate, or if any approval is based on a narrower definition of these patient populations, our revenues and our ability to achieve profitability and cash-flow positive operations will be adversely affected, possibly materially.. The patient population for the diseases that our products treat is small, and networking, data gathering and support channels are not as established as those for more prevalent and researched disease indications, and as such, there is no patient registry or other method of establishing with precision the actual number of HoFH or GL and PL subset patients with the diseases our products treat in any geography. Estimating the prevalence of a rare disease is difficult and we therefore need to rely on assumptions, beliefs. 57. and an amalgam of information from multiple sources, resulting in potential under- or over-reporting. There is no guarantee that our assumptions and beliefs are correct, or that the methodologies used and data collected have generated or will continue to generate accurate estimates. There is therefore significant uncertainty around the estimated total potential addressable patient population for treatment with lomitapide and metreleptin worldwide.. Medical literature has historically reported the prevalence rate of HoFH as one person per million, based on an estimated prevalence rate for HeFH of one person in 500. However, analyses of HoFH prevalence have been evolving in recent years and published medical literature suggests that the actual prevalence of both HeFH and HoFH may be significantly higher than the historical estimates. For example, in 2014, the European Atherosclerosis Society Consensus Panel on Familial Hypercholesterolemia published an article citing research that would result in an estimated prevalence of HoFH in the range of between one person in 300,000 and one person in 160,000 or 3.33 persons per million to 6.25 persons per million, which is consistent with estimates that can be derived from other publications over the last few years. The FDA cited this estimate in its review of PCSK9 inhibitor products in June 2015. Despite this research and citation thereof, there is no guarantee that the prevalence of HoFH is actually higher than historical literature had reported and the number of patients with HoFH could actually be significantly lower than historically reported. Given that JUXTAPID is a last-line treatment for adult HoFH patients, the market for JUXTAPID may be significantly smaller than the prevalence of HoFH suggested by current and historical medical literature.. We believe that the prevalence rate of HoFH in countries outside the U.S. is likely consistent with the prevalence rate in the U.S.; however, we expect that our net product sales in countries outside the U.S. are likely to be lower than in the U.S. given significant economic pressures to reduce healthcare costs in certain ex-U.S. countries, resulting in pricing controls, reimbursement restrictions and caps on patients treated and/or drug expenditures, the more widespread availability of apheresis, in certain countries, like Japan, and the possibility that genotyping may be required in some countries, reducing the number of patients diagnosed with HoFH.. Currently available data suggests that the approximate prevalence of GL in the U.S. is slightly under one per million persons, and for PL overall is three per million persons. Although the data are even more limited, the prevalence in the U.S. of a subset of more severe PL, which is comparable to the PL subset indication we are currently pursuing in the EU, is estimated to be between 0.5 and one per million persons. We believe that the prevalence rate of GL and PL, and correspondingly the PL subset, in countries outside the U.S. is likely consistent with the prevalence rate in the U.S. There is no guarantee, however, that our estimates are correct. The actual prevalence of GL, PL and the PL subset may be significantly lower than we expect. Ultimately, the likely size of the total addressable market in the U.S. and other key markets where metreleptin is or may be sold, if approved, will be better understood only after we have substantial commercial history selling metreleptin.. If the total addressable market for our products in the U.S. and other key markets is smaller than we expect, then it may be more difficult for us to achieve our revenue goals and estimates and to attain profitability and meet our expectations with respect to results of operations and cash flows.. If we are unable to establish and maintain effective sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or to enter into agreements with third parties to do so, we will be unable to successfully commercialize our products.. We are selling JUXTAPID and MYALEPT directly in the U.S., using our own marketing and sales resources, after converting our former contract sales force to employees in January 2018. We are selling JUXTAPID in Japan using a contract sales force. We are marketing and selling, or plan to market and sell, our products directly, using our own marketing and sales resources, in certain key countries outside the U.S. in which our products are, or may be, approved and where it makes business sense to do so. Following our workforce reduction in January 2018, which impacted our U.S. sales, market access and marketing teams, we will be undertaking these efforts with considerably less manpower, and this may impact our ability to effectively market and sell our products in the U.S. We use, and plan to continue to use, third parties to provide warehousing, shipping, third-party logistics, invoicing, collections and other distribution services on our behalf in the U.S. and in other countries throughout the world. For example, we currently have a contract with a single specialty pharmacy distributor in the U.S. for the distribution of lomitapide and metreleptin, a single distributor in Brazil for both products, and single distributors, importers and/or specialty pharmacies in certain other countries. We have entered into, or may selectively seek to establish, distribution and similar forms of arrangements to reach patients in certain geographies that we do not believe we can cost-effectively address with our own sales and marketing capabilities. If we are unable to establish and maintain the capabilities to sell, market and distribute our products, either through our own capabilities or through arrangements with third parties, and to effectively manage those third parties when we choose to use them, or if we are unable to enter into distribution agreements in those countries that we do not believe we can cost-effectively address with our own sales and marketing capabilities, we may not be able to successfully sell our products. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to establish and maintain our own capabilities or to enter into and maintain favorable distribution agreements with third-parties on acceptable terms, if at all.. 58. To the extent that we enter into arrangements with third parties to perform sales, marketing or distribution services, our product revenues or the profitability of these product revenues to us are likely to be lower than if we were to commercialize our products ourselves. We will have limited control over such third parties, and any of them may fail to devote the necessary resources and attention to sell and market our products effectively, and may also, despite our compliance diligence reviews, audits and training, engage in non-compliant activities that, directly or indirectly, impact the use or sales of our products or damage our relationships with relevant stakeholders. Any performance failure, inability or refusal to perform on the part of our specialty pharmacy distributor in the U.S., our third-party sales force in Japan, our distributor in Brazil, or our third-party service providers in certain other countries, or any failure to renew existing agreements or enter into new agreements when these relationships expire on favorable terms, or at all, could cause serious disruption and impair our commercial or named patient sales of our products, which would have a negative impact on our revenues. Furthermore, our expenses associated with maintaining our sales force and distribution capabilities may continue to be substantial compared to the revenues we generate. If we are unable to establish and effectively maintain adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, whether independently or with third parties, particularly as we continue to assess our cost structure in light of anticipated revenues, we may not be able to generate product revenues consistent with our expectations and may not become profitable or achieve cash-flow positive operations.. Our success is dependent upon expanding regulatory approval for our products. The regulatory approval process is costly and lengthy, and we may not receive such regulatory approvals.. We are currently permitted to market lomitapide in the U.S. and in a limited number of other countries on a commercial basis, and to market metreleptin in the U.S.  Shionogi holds a marketing authorization for metreleptin in Japan under a distribution agreement assigned to us as part of the acquisition of the metreleptin assets. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain marketing authorizations for either product in additional regions or countries or for the indications we may pursue, including MYALEPTA in the EU for which we are seeking approval of GL and a PL subgroup. To obtain marketing approvals, we must establish, and comply with, numerous and varying regulatory requirements regarding safety and efficacy and governing, among other things, clinical trials, pricing, promotion and distribution of the respective product, and we may be required to conduct post-marketing studies as a condition to such approvals, as we have been by the FDA for both JUXTAPID and MYALEPT and by the EMA for LOJUXTA. Approval procedures vary among countries, and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. Marketing approval in one country does not ensure such approval in another.. Regulatory authorities in countries where we seek approval for our products may not be satisfied with the design, size, endpoints or efficacy and safety results of the pivotal trial of the product, or the risk/benefit profile of the product, and may reject our applications for approval. For example, we filed to register JUXTAPID as a marketed product in Brazil, and, in May 2014, appealed a rejection of the registration by Brazil's National Health Surveillance Agency (\"ANVISA\"). We subsequently withdrew our appeal, and intend to resubmit our marketing application with additional data and information in 2018. In December 2017, a regulation was approved in Brazil providing for special procedures concerning the registration of new drugs for the treatment of rare diseases, which could expedite approval of our products in Brazil. The impact and applicability of this regulation is still unclear, and we may not be successful in receiving regulatory approval to market JUXTAPID in Brazil. It is also possible that regulatory authorities in countries where we are seeking, or may in the future seek, approval may disagree with our assessment that certain changes made to lomitapide's physical parameters and specifications as compared to the material used in the pivotal trial are not clinically meaningful. If regulatory authorities require additional studies or trials for either of our products or changes to specifications, we would incur increased costs and delays in the marketing approval process and may not be able to obtain approval.. In addition, regulatory authorities in countries outside the U.S. and EU are increasingly requiring risk management plans and post-marketing commitments, which may be more onerous than those required in the U.S. and EU. In certain countries, if the post-marketing commitment is a post-marketing study that would qualify as an interventional or similar form of study, we may be required to provide free product to participants in the study in such country even if our products are reimbursed there. The time required to obtain approval in other countries may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval or marketing authorization in the EU.. The availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payers is critical for the successful commercialization of lomitapide and metreleptin. We may face resistance from certain private, government and other third-party payers and from healthcare professionals and patients given the prices we charge for our products. If reimbursement for our products is limited or delayed, we may not be able to achieve our revenue goals or achieve profitability or achieve cash-flow positive operations from the lomitapide or metreleptin businesses in the time periods we expect, or at all.. Market acceptance and sales of lomitapide and metreleptin in the U.S. will continue to depend, to a significant degree, on insurance coverage and reimbursement policies, and may be affected by healthcare reform measures. Government authorities and third-party payers, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, decide for which medications they. 59. will pay and establish reimbursement levels. A primary trend in the U.S. healthcare industry and elsewhere is cost containment and predictability. Government authorities and these third-party payers have attempted to control costs by limiting coverage and limiting the amount of reimbursement for particular medications. If we fail to successfully secure and maintain reimbursement coverage for our products at levels that are acceptable to us or are significantly delayed in doing so or if onerous conditions are imposed or announced by private payers, government authorities or other third-party payers on such reimbursement, we will have difficulty achieving or maintaining market acceptance of our products and our business and ability to achieve our financial expectations will be harmed.. Given that HoFH and GL are rare diseases with extremely small patient populations, we have established prices for JUXTAPID and MYALEPT in the U.S. that are significantly higher per dose on an annual basis than those of most commercially available pharmaceutical products. We expect to increase the price of lomitapide and metreleptin from time to time in the future. We believe pricing for our products in the U.S. is consistent with the level of pricing for other orphan drugs that treat diseases with comparable prevalence rates. Although a majority of payers in the U.S. are providing coverage for our products and, with respect to JUXTAPID, most payers in the U.S. have not required genotyping to determine a diagnosis of HoFH for reimbursement purposes, many of such payers have imposed requirements, conditions or limitations as conditions to coverage and reimbursement for JUXTAPID as a result of commercial availability of PCSK9 inhibitor products, which often include a requirement that HoFH patients have not achieved an adequate LDL-C response on PCSK9 inhibitor products before access to lomitapide is approved. For patients currently taking JUXTAPID, several U.S. pharmacy benefit managers (\"PBMs\") are using a prior authorization requiring current JUXTAPID patients to \"step through\" the less expensive PCSK9 inhibitor product, and additional PBMs and payers may follow this practice. We have been engaging with PBMs to discuss and negotiate potential agreements to limit these so-called \"step edits\", which, if successfully negotiated, may require us to provide discounts and other price protections and would impact our net revenues from JUXTAPID.. During the payer review process for MYALEPT in the U.S., some U.S. payers are requiring additional patient information, including details regarding a potential patient's leptin level, which requires administration of a leptin level test, which may delay or otherwise impact reimbursement. The cost of JUXTAPID and MYALEPT in the U.S. may result in cost-sharing amounts for some patients that are prohibitive, and prevent these patients from being able to commence or continue therapy on JUXTAPID or MYALEPT, respectively. We provide support to eligible commercial patients for certain drug co-pays and co-insurance obligations for JUXTAPID and MYALEPT treatment. We currently do not plan to provide financial support to patient assistance programs operated by independent charitable 501(c)(3) organizations in the U.S. that are permitted, subject to compliance with strict legal and regulatory requirements, to assist eligible HoFH and GL patients, as determined solely by the organization, with certain co-payments or co-insurance requirements for their drug therapies, which may include lomitapide or metreleptin. If we do elect to provide such financial support, we would not have control or input into the decisions of these organizations. Our own co-pay assistance programs and any future contributions, if any, we make to any 501(c)(3) organization could result in significant costs to us.. The impact of evolving reimbursement policies and processes on the willingness of providers to furnish JUXTAPID or MYALEPT and the prices we can command for these products is difficult to predict and could have a negative impact on our revenues. Legislative changes to the Public Health Service Section 340B drug pricing program (the \"340B Program\"), the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, and the Medicare Part D prescription drug benefit under the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (the \"MMA\") could also impact our revenues. If reimbursement is not available, or available only to limited levels, or if the mix of patients for our products is more heavily weighted to patients reimbursed under government programs, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to meet our operating costs and continue our operations, and we may never be profitable or achieve positive cash flow in the timeframe that we expect, or at all. Price reductions and other discounts we offer or may offer for our products, and significant price increases typically result in increasing the rebates we are required to pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program or state Medicaid supplemental rebate programs and the discounts we are required to offer under the 340B Program. For example, we currently pay a significant rebate for MYALEPT that could offset the majority of revenues from Medicaid patients, and this rebate will have a continuing significant impact in future periods. The degree of such impact on our overall financial performance will depend on the percentage of MYALEPT patients who have Medicaid as their primary insurance coverage and the quantity of units ordered per patient. In addition, a considerable number of JUXTAPID patients in the U.S. are Medicare Part D patients. A significant percentage of such patients may not be able to afford their out-of-pocket co-payments, which could result in such patients seeking an alternative free or lower-cost drug, or ceasing treatment with our product, given that the only source of financial support for such patients may be through independent 501(c)(3) patient organizations, which may not provide adequate financial assistance, including due to reductions in contributions to such patient organizations. Any negative developments with regard to reimbursement of our products, for any reason, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues or financial condition.. Further, any negotiated prices for our products covered by a Part D prescription drug plan will likely be lower than the prices we might otherwise obtain and, while the MMA applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payers. 60. often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own payment rates. Any reduction in payment that results from the MMA may result in a similar reduction in payments from non-governmental payers. In addition, in the U.S., the cost of pharmaceuticals continues to generate substantial governmental and third-party payer scrutiny. We expect that the pharmaceutical industry will continue to experience pricing pressures due to the increasing influence of managed care (and related implementation of managed care strategies to control utilization) organizations, additional federal and state legislative and regulatory proposals to regulate pricing of drugs, limit coverage of drugs or reduce reimbursement for drugs, public scrutiny, and the current presidential administration's agenda to control the price of pharmaceuticals through government negotiations of drug prices in Medicare Part D and importation of less expensive products from abroad. While we cannot predict what executive, legislative and regulatory proposals will be adopted or other actions will occur, or what the impact on our products might be, such events and impact could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In countries outside the U.S. where lomitapide is or may be approved, or where metreleptin may be approved, including countries in the EU, we are also seeking or expect to seek a price that is significantly higher than that of most commercially available pharmaceutical products, and which reflects the rare nature of the diseases our products treat. There is no assurance that government agencies in such countries that are responsible for reimbursement of healthcare costs, or other third-party payers in such countries, will agree to provide sufficient or any coverage for our products at the prices we expect to propose. In many countries outside the U.S., including key markets in the EU, if approved by the relevant regulatory authority, a product must also receive pricing and reimbursement approval before it can be commercialized broadly or at all. This approval requirement, and the lengthy pricing and/or reimbursement negotiations with governmental authorities that may occur due to such requirement, can result in substantial delays in commercializing products in such countries, and the price that is ultimately approved may be lower than the price for which we expect to offer, or would be willing to offer, our products in such countries, and may impact pricing in other countries. Pricing and reimbursement approval in one country does not ensure such approvals in another. Failure to obtain the approvals necessary to commercialize our products in other countries after receipt of regulatory approval at reimbursement levels that are acceptable to us, or any delay or setback in obtaining such approvals, would impair our ability to develop foreign markets for our products. For example, Aegerion experienced significant delays and challenges obtaining pricing and reimbursement approval for LOJUXTA in several countries of the EU, including in France, where LOJUXTA twice received a \"minor improvement\" rating, which significantly limited the potential reimbursement level for lomitapide in France; in Germany, where LOJUXTA twice received a \"no additional benefit\" assessment from the German reimbursement authority; and in Spain, where the price of LOJUXTA was rejected by the Spanish Ministry of Health. We may experience similar delays and challenges in connection with seeking pricing and reimbursement approval for metreleptin in the EU, assuming approval by the EMA, even though metreleptin has been granted orphan designation by the EC for the indications that we are pursuing, which designation lomitapide was not granted. In part because Aegerion was unable to obtain commercially acceptable pricing and reimbursement approvals for LOJUXTA in several of the key markets of the EU, Aegerion elected to cease commercialization of LOJUXTA in the EU and, in December 2016, entered into a license agreement with Amryt Pharma plc (\"Amryt\") under which Amryt was granted an exclusive license to develop and commercialize LOJUXTA in the European Economic Area (\"EEA\"), Switzerland, Turkey, and certain Middle Eastern and North African countries, including Israel. The requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country. We expect that some countries will seek, and in certain cases, have sought and received, price and patient number and other price restrictions for our products, or, in some cases, if sold on a named patient basis. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our product, or any product candidate, to other available therapies, which may not be possible for us to do.. Outside the U.S., the macroeconomic climate, or local regulations or practices, may adversely affect our ability to set and charge a price sufficient to generate adequate revenues in those markets. The price of lomitapide, or metreleptin if approved, in one country may adversely affect the price in other countries. This is particularly true among countries in the EU. We may elect not to launch our products in any country where it does not make commercial sense to do so given the approved price or other conditions. In addition, while we do not expect to obtain approval of our products outside of rare disease indications, in the future if we were to obtain such approval for new indications with a higher prevalence rate than our existing indications, it may be more difficult for us to obtain or maintain our current price levels and targets for lomitapide and metreleptin. For example, due to the broader indication for MYALEPT in Japan, MYALEPT is sold by Shionogi in Japan at a price significantly lower than the U.S. price. Even if we are successful in obtaining pricing and reimbursement approval for our products in a particular country, such country may impose onerous conditions on reimbursement, which may, for example, include genotyping or the use of other therapies, such as apheresis, prior to the prescription and reimbursement of lomitapide, and include leptin testing or other requirements prior to the prescription and reimbursement of metreleptin.. We may not be able to provide all of the data required to obtain pricing/reimbursement approvals in certain countries outside the U.S. where we seek to commercialize our products, if approved, or we may not satisfactorily meet the technical or substantive requirements of such submissions or receive ratings from pricing or other regulatory authorities commensurate with our expectations or that would support the price levels we want for our products, which could result in delays of pricing/reimbursement approvals for our products, our products not obtaining pricing/reimbursement approval at all, or our products. 61. obtaining approvals at less than acceptable levels or with significant restrictions on use or reimbursement. For example, Health Technology Assessments (\"HTA\") have become an increasingly common part of the pricing and reimbursement procedures in some EU Member States, including the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy and Sweden. HTA is the procedure according to which the assessment of the public health impact, therapeutic impact, and the economic and societal impact of use of a given medicinal product in the national healthcare systems of the individual country is conducted. HTA generally focuses on the clinical efficacy and effectiveness, safety, cost, and cost-effectiveness of individual medicinal products as well as their potential implications for the healthcare system. Those elements of medicinal products are compared with other treatment options available on the market. The data available to us from the phase 3 study of metreleptin conducted at the NIH may not be ideal to support HTAs and the market access process in the EU, due to, among other things, the study having been single-arm, non-comparative and not having produced outcome data. Due to our current budgetary constraints, we may not be able to fund additional analyses of the NIH data or supplemental studies that could support reimbursement applications in the EU. This may result in metreleptin not obtaining pricing/reimbursement approval at all, or at less than acceptable levels or with significant restrictions on use or reimbursement. Further, the outcome of HTA regarding specific medicinal products will often influence the pricing and reimbursement status granted to these medicinal products by the regulatory authorities of individual EU Member States. The extent to which pricing and reimbursement decisions are influenced by the HTA of the specific medicinal product vary between EU Member States. A negative HTA of metreleptin by a leading and recognized HTA body, such as the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (\"NICE\") in the United Kingdom, could not only undermine our ability to obtain reimbursement for such product in the EU Member State in which such negative assessment was issued, but also in other EU Member States. For example, EU Member States that have not yet developed HTA mechanisms could rely to some extent on the HTA performed in countries with a developed HTA framework, such as the United Kingdom, when adopting decisions concerning the pricing and reimbursement of a specific medicinal product.. We may also face pricing and reimbursement pressure in the U.S. and other countries as a result of prices charged for competitive products or therapies. In addition, in certain countries, such as Brazil, the price we are able to charge for named patient sales prior to approval may be higher than the price that is approved by governmental authorities after approval.. We rely on named patient sales of our products in certain territories, but there is no assurance that named patient sales of our products will continue at current levels, or at all.. In Brazil, Turkey, and in a limited number of other countries where permitted based on U.S. or EU approval, lomitapide and metreleptin are available on a named patient sales or similar basis. There is no assurance that named patient sales will continue to be authorized in any particular country. Even if they are authorized, we are not permitted to promote, market or otherwise engage in proactive selling activities for products sold on a named patient basis, which makes named patient sales much less predictable, and susceptible to unexpected decreases. If violations of any laws or governmental regulations are found to have occurred in connection with our products in connection with named patient sales, significant criminal or civil lawsuits may be filed, or investigations may be commenced. For example, in Brazil, under certain circumstances, we could be barred from further named patient sales of our products to federal and/or state governments in Brazil due to penalties imposed by Brazilian regulatory authorities or through civil actions initiated by federal or state public prosecutors, or we could face administrative penalties imposed by Brazilian regulatory authorities and additional damages and fines. We believe the investigations in Brazil have contributed to a slower turn-around between price quotation and orders, including re-orders, from the federal government, and, in some cases, delays in orders and re-orders from the government of the State of São Paulo after a patient has obtained access to JUXTAPID through the judicial process. These delays may continue, and we may experience other delays or suspensions of the ordering process. Similarly, there has been, and may continue to be, some reluctance by physicians to prescribe JUXTAPID, and some patients to take or stay on JUXTAPID, while the investigations are ongoing, particularly given that some of the investigators in Brazil made formal inquiries of certain prescribers of JUXTAPID, and there has been significant local media coverage of such inquiries and our activities in Brazil, including in 2017. For example, in the second quarter of 2015 and in the second quarter of 2016, we observed a significant increase in patients discontinuing therapy in Brazil, and we believe that the increases in discontinuations during those times were due in part to the investigations. In addition, the Brazilian Supreme Federal Court is currently discussing, in two ongoing lawsuits, whether the government has an obligation to continue to provide, on a named patient sales basis, drugs that have not received regulatory and/or pricing and reimbursement approval in Brazil, such as lomitapide and metreleptin. Further, in October 2017, a new set of regulatory requirements governing use of product candidates was published in Brazil which has added complexity to the process for the purchase, on a named patient basis, of drugs which have not received regulatory and/or pricing and reimbursement approval in Brazil, such as lomitapide and metreleptin, which has, along with the ongoing court proceeding, resulted in delays in the receipt of orders from Brazil for existing lomitapide and metreleptin patients and we believe has led certain patients to discontinue therapy with lomitapide and metreleptin. Although we intend to file for marketing approval in Brazil for both JUXTAPID and MYALEPT in 2018, the approval process can be lengthy, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain such approval; as a result, we may have to rely on our ability to generate named patient sales for a considerable amount of time, or indefinitely. The result of the lawsuits, the recent requirements regarding named patient. 62. sales in Brazil, and other issues could significantly negatively affect product revenues from named patient sales of our products in Brazil.. We do not yet know the full extent of the impact that the approval of PCSK9 inhibitor products in the U.S., or the approval of a PCSK9 inhibitor product in Brazil in 2016, will have on the named patient sales of lomitapide in Brazil or other countries. We also do not know whether we will be permitted to sell lomitapide or metreleptin on a named patient basis in any additional countries. In certain countries, we may decide not to pursue named patient sales even if permitted. Even if named patient sales (or equivalent sales) are permitted in a certain country, and we elect to make lomitapide or metreleptin available on such basis, there is no guarantee that physicians in such country will prescribe the product, which they can only do if they proactively reach out to us or our distributors and also undertake the effort, time and cost of following the stringent local requirements to get their patient on therapy on a named patient basis, and that patients will be willing to start and adhere to therapy, or that the country will pay for the product at all, or at a level that is acceptable to us, without delay or imposing other hurdles on payment.  These risks may be heightened in Brazil, in light of the 2016 approval of a PCSK9 inhibitor product in Brazil, ongoing state and federal government investigations, a 2016 decision by the Brazilian pharmaceutical industry association that we violated its Code of Conduct, and negative coverage by Brazilian media. There is no guarantee that we will generate sales or substantial revenues from such sales.. If named patient sales do not meet our expectations in key named patient sales markets, particularly Brazil, we may not be able to meet our expectations with respect to sales of our products or revenues from such sales, achieve cash-flow positive or profitable operations, or meet our expectations with respect to profitability in the time periods we anticipate, or at all. Further, there are countries where we choose to make our products available under an expanded access program at no cost prior to approval in such countries. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain marketing approval or reimbursement at all or at acceptable levels or to maintain reimbursement for our products in any country where we have expanded access programs or that patients on such programs will convert to commercial product even if we do obtain requisite approvals. In certain countries where we seek reimbursement for the product during the pre-approval phase, we are able to establish the price for the product, while in other countries we need to negotiate the price. Such negotiations may not result in a price acceptable to us, in which case we may elect not to distribute our products in such country prior to approval or we may curtail distribution. Our expanded access program may result in significant expenses and may not result in expected future sales at desired levels or at all, and could negatively impact our financial results.. We are subject to intense competition. If we are unable to compete effectively, we may not be able to achieve our revenue goals or achieve profitability or cash-flow positive operations.  Competitive products could render lomitapide or metreleptin, or any other product or product candidate that we develop or acquire, non-competitive or obsolete, which would have a materially negative impact on our results of operations.. Our industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. Our potential competitors include large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, specialty pharmaceutical and generic drug companies, academic institutions, government agencies and research institutions. All of these competitors currently engage in, have engaged in or may in the future engage in the development, manufacturing, marketing and commercialization of new pharmaceuticals, some of which may compete with lomitapide or metreleptin, or other products or any product candidates we may acquire, license or develop. Smaller or early stage companies may also be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large, established companies. Key competitive factors affecting the commercial success of lomitapide, metreleptin and any other products that we develop or acquire are likely to be safety, efficacy, tolerability profile, reliability, convenience of dosing, price and reimbursement.. The market for cholesterol-lowering therapeutics is large and competitive with many drug classes. Lomitapide is approved in the U.S., Japan, the EU and in certain other countries as an adjunct to a low-fat diet and other lipid-lowering treatments to reduce LDL-C in adult HoFH patients. As a treatment for HoFH, JUXTAPID competes in the U.S. and certain other countries with Kynamro. Developed by Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (\"Ionis\") and now marketed by Kastle Therapeutics, Kynamro is an antisense apolipoprotein B-100 inhibitor which is taken as a weekly subcutaneous injection. JUXTAPID also faces significant competition in the treatment of adult HoFH patients with a class of drugs known as PCSK9 inhibitors. In July 2015, the FDA approved the BLA for Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Sanofi's PCSK9 inhibitor candidate, alirocumab, for use in addition to diet and maximally tolerated statin therapy in adult HeFH patients and in patients with clinical atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease who require additional lowering of LDL-C. In September 2015, the EC approved alirocumab for the treatment of adult patients with HeFH or mixed dyslipidemia as an adjunct to diet, either in combination with a statin, or statin with other lipid-lowering therapies in patients unable to reach their LDL-C goals with the maximally-tolerated statin, or alone or in combination with other lipid-lowering therapies for patients who are statin intolerant, or for whom a statin is contraindicated. The FDA approved Amgen Inc.'s BLA for its anti-PCSK9 antibody, evolocumab, in August 2015, as an adjunct to diet and maximally tolerated statin therapy for the treatment of adults with HeFH or clinical atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, who require additional lowering of LDL-C;. 63. and as an adjunct to diet and other LDL-lowering therapies for the treatment of patients with HoFH, who require additional lowering of LDL-C. In July 2015, the EC approved the marketing authorization of evolocumab for the same indication as alirocumab, and for the treatment for certain patients with high cholesterol, including patients aged 12 years and over with HoFH in combination with other lipid-lowering therapies. In January 2016, the MHLW in Japan approved evolocumab for the treatment of patients with FH or hypercholesterolemia who have high risk of cardiovascular events and do not adequately respond to statins, and in July 2016 the MHLW approved alirocumab for the same indication. The regulatory agencies responsible for reviewing marketing authorization applications in Brazil, Canada, Colombia, and Argentina have also approved evolocumab for the treatment of patients with HoFH. Other companies, including Eli Lilly & Co. and Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Inc., in collaboration with The Medicines Company, are also developing PCSK9 inhibitor products.. The introduction of PCSK9 inhibitors in the U.S. and in other key markets has already significantly and negatively impacted sales of JUXTAPID and we expect continued pressure on sales of JUXTAPID. This impact on JUXTAPID sales results from several factors, including: healthcare professionals switching some existing JUXTAPID patients to a PCSK9 inhibitor product, and healthcare professionals trying most new adult HoFH patients on a PCSK9 inhibitor product before trying JUXTAPID because such products, in comparison to JUXTAPID, have fewer side effects, are significantly less expensive, and do not require patients to follow a special low-fat diet; requirements imposed by insurance companies, managed care organizations and other private payers in the U.S. that HoFH patients demonstrate an inability to achieve an adequate LDL-C response on PCSK9 inhibitor products before access to JUXTAPID is approved; and the likelihood that prior authorization (which we believe is required by all U.S. payers) will encourage a switch of current JUXTAPID patients to a less expensive PCSK9 inhibitor product. Competitors for JUXTAPID may enjoy other competitive advantages if insurance companies, managed care organizations or other private payers in the U.S. impose other hurdles to access or other significant restrictions or limitations on reimbursement, or require switching of JUXTAPID patients to PCSK9 inhibitor products. We believe that many of the PCSK9 inhibitor switches from JUXTAPID patients have been at the direction of the prescribing physician, and physicians may ultimately not decide to switch the adult HoFH patient back to JUXTAPID even if the patient does not reach a goal of LDL-C response while being treated with a PCSK9 inhibitor product, or otherwise prescribe JUXTAPID to patients. It is unknown how many adult HoFH patients, if any, may be switched back to or started on JUXTAPID, or the period of time in which this might take place.. The availability of PCSK9 inhibitor products in commercial markets outside of the U.S. is having similar negative effects on sales, including named patient sales, of lomitapide outside the U.S., particularly in Brazil, Japan, Canada and Colombia, where PCSK9 inhibitor products have been approved by the regulatory authorities and launched commercially. If the continued negative impact of PCSK9 inhibitors is greater than we expect, it may make it more difficult for us to generate revenues and achieve profitability. Also, although there are no other microsomal triglyceride transfer protein inhibitor (\"MTP-I\") compounds currently approved by the FDA for the treatment of hyperlipidemia in humans, there may be other MTP-I compounds in development.. Potential future competition for JUXTAPID may include drugs and biologics currently in clinical development for the treatment of patients with HoFH. Development programs currently include other oral drug therapeutics, such as Gemphire Therapeutics' gemcabene which targets apolipoprotein C-III and is currently preparing to enter Phase 3 development for the treatment of FH. Other potential therapies include gene therapies, such as REGENXBIO's LDL-receptor gene therapy which is currently in Phase 1/2 development for HoFH. Also, although there are no other MTP-I compounds currently approved by the FDA for the treatment of hyperlipidemia in humans, there may be other MTP-I compounds in development. If approved, novel drug or biologic therapies for the treatment of HoFH or FH could negatively impact the sales of JUXTAPID in the future.. Although MYALEPT is the first and only product approved in the U.S. for the treatment of complications of leptin deficiency in patients with GL, there are a number of therapies approved to treat these complications independently that are not specific to GL. Certain clinical complications of GL, including diabetes and hypertriglyceridemia, may be treated with insulin and/or oral medications, such as metformin, insulin secretagogues, fibrates, or statins, but patients with GL often have an inadequate response to these therapies. Akcea Therapeutics, is developing volanesorsen, an antisense therapy targeting apolipoprotein C-III, which is currently in Phase 3 development for patients with familial PL with diagnosed type 2 diabetes mellitus or hypertriglyceridemia, which, if approved and depending on the labeled indication, could potentially compete with metreleptin, if metreleptin is approved for the treatment of a PL subset.. We may also face future competition from companies selling generic alternatives of our products in countries where we do not have patent coverage, orphan drug status or another form of data or marketing exclusivity or where patent coverage or data or marketing exclusivity has expired, is not enforced, or may, in the future, be challenged.. Many of our current and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we do, which is exacerbated by several factors related to our business, including the negative impact of PCSK9 inhibitor products on the JUXTAPID business, the financial penalties and compliance terms in the settlement agreements entered into in connection with the DOJ and SEC investigations, Aegerion's outstanding debt obligations, and the Company's consolidated financial condition. 64. and cash position. Many of these companies also have significantly greater experience in the discovery and development of drug candidates, obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products and the commercialization of those products. Accordingly, our competitors may be more successful than us in obtaining marketing approvals for drugs and achieving and maintaining widespread market acceptance.. Our competitors' drugs may be more effective, or more effectively marketed and sold, than any drug we may commercialize, and may render lomitapide or metreleptin, or any other product or any product candidate that we acquire, license or develop, obsolete or non-competitive before we can recover the expenses of developing and commercializing the product. We anticipate that we will face intense and increasing competition as new drugs enter the market and advanced technologies become available. Finally, the development of new treatment methods for the diseases we are targeting could render lomitapide or metreleptin, or any other product or any product candidate that we acquire, license or develop, non-competitive or obsolete, which would have a materially negative impact on our results of operations.. We depend entirely on third-party manufacturers to produce our drug substance and drug product for each of our products, and diluent for metreleptin. If they are unable to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, unable to source sufficient raw materials, experience manufacturing or distribution difficulties, or are otherwise unable to manufacture and distribute sufficient quantities to meet demand, our commercialization efforts may be materially harmed. Having a single source manufacturer may increase the risk that we will not have sufficient quantities of our products or diluent for metreleptin, or will not be able to obtain such quantities at an acceptable cost, or at all, which could negatively impact commercialization of our products or delay, prevent or impair our clinical development programs.. We have no internal manufacturing facilities and employ limited personnel with manufacturing experience. We are completely dependent upon contract manufacturers to produce drug substance and drug product for commercial supplies and for our clinical trials.. We have long-term supply agreements with our lomitapide drug product and drug substance manufacturers, as well as supply agreements with our metreleptin drug substance and drug product manufacturers. We do not have agreements in place for redundant supply or a second source for drug substance or drug product for either of our products. Any termination or non-renewal of our agreements with our contract manufacturers, or any failure of our suppliers to perform under such contracts, could impact availability of commercial supply of lomitapide or metreleptin, which would have an adverse impact on sales, or supply for use in clinic trials, which may delay further clinical development or marketing approval of such product in additional countries. If for any reason our contract manufacturers cannot or will not perform as agreed, or if they terminate or fail to renew our arrangement, we may be required to replace such manufacturer, which would take a considerable amount of time and effort, and we may not be able to replace such manufacturer on as favorable terms, or at all. For example, in December 2017, the contract manufacturer for metreleptin drug product informed Aegerion that it will terminate its supply contract in December 2019. Although Aegerion has a supply of safety stock and has a mitigation plan in place with another contract manufacturer for metreleptin drug product (where technology transfer has already been completed), there is no assurance that the new metreleptin manufacturer will be fully validated and that all necessary approvals will be received for such manufacturer prior to exhausting our existing supply and reserves manufactured in the interim of metreleptin drug product. Any interruption in supply of metreleptin drug product could have a material and adverse impact on our sales, depending upon the length of interruption. In part to prepare for launch of metreleptin in the EU, assuming approval of our MAA, we are in the process of developing new presentations in nominal 2.5 mg and 5 mg vials. In order to provide metreleptin in these new presentations in the EU, assuming we obtain approval of our MAA, we must, after approval, file variations with the EMA establishing that these new presentations are comparable to the current 10 mg vial presentation. If our data fail to establish comparability, the EMA may not approve the new presentations, or approve them with a limited shelf life, or we may not meet the deadline to file our pricing and reimbursement dossiers in certain key markets, or file them on the basis of the current presentation only, which could, given that metreleptin requires daily dosing and only the 10 mg vial presentation would be available, impact our ability to secure an approved price on a timely basis or at all for metreleptin in those key markets, and ultimately impact our revenue goals.. In addition, our metreleptin drug product manufacturer also supplies bacteriostatic water for injection (\"BWFI\"), one of the approved diluents for reconstitution of metreleptin which allows for use of a reconstituted vial of metreleptin for up to three days when stored appropriately. BWFI is only available for sale and approved for use in the U.S., and we or our contract manufacturers purchase it for supply with ex-US named patient sales and other expanded access distribution to reduce the number of metreleptin vials provided. Although BWFI is currently in shortage and on back order from our contract manufacturer, we have secured sufficient inventory to maintain a supply through late 2018 based on current demand. If in the future we exhaust our inventory of BWFI, ex-U.S. patients who obtain metreleptin via named patient sales or an expanded access program will need to use water for injection, a diluent which requires immediate use of product after reconstitution, and the discarding of any product remaining in the vial, which will likely result in more metreleptin vials being shipped and could decrease our revenues from named patient sales, increase our expenses, and impact our inventory of metreleptin and our agreements with our distributors.. 65. If we are unable to maintain arrangements for third-party manufacturing, or are unable to do so on commercially reasonable terms, or are unable to obtain timely regulatory approvals in connection with our contract manufacturers, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our products or complete development of our products. We may incur significant added costs and substantial delays in identifying and qualifying any replacement manufacturers, and in obtaining regulatory approval to use such replacement manufacturer in the manufacture of our products. Any such delays could result in significant delay in the supply of drug product for an ongoing trial due to the need to replace a third-party manufacturer and could delay completion of the trial. If for any reason we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of lomitapide or metreleptin, or any other product or any product candidate that we develop or acquire, or the drug substances used to manufacture them, it will be more difficult or impossible for us to compete effectively, generate revenues, meet our expectations for financial performance and further develop our products. In addition, if we are unable to assure a sufficient quantity of the drug for patients with rare diseases or conditions, we may lose any orphan drug exclusivity to which the product otherwise would be entitled.. We rely on our contract manufacturers to utilize processes that consistently produce drug substance and drug product to their required specifications, including those imposed by the FDA, the EMA and other regulatory authorities, as applicable. There can be no assurance that our contractors will consistently be able to produce commercial supplies of drug substance or drug product meeting the approved specifications. A number of factors could cause production interruptions at the facilities of our contract manufacturers, including equipment malfunctions, facility contamination, labor problems, raw material shortages or contamination, natural disasters, disruption in utility services, terrorist activities, regulatory actions resulting from failure to comply with current Good Manufacturing Practice (\"cGMP\"), human error or disruptions in the operations of our suppliers. We have experienced failures by our third-party manufacturers to produce product that meets our specifications in the past, and any future failure by our third-party manufacturers to produce product that meets specifications could lead to a shortage of lomitapide or metreleptin.. The manufacture of biologic pharmaceuticals, such as metreleptin, is more difficult and riskier than the manufacture of small molecule pharmaceuticals, such as lomitapide. The process of manufacturing biologics is highly susceptible to product loss due to contamination, oxidation, equipment failure or improper installation or operation of equipment, or vendor or operator error. Even minor deviations from normal manufacturing processes could result in reduced production yields, product defects and other supply disruptions. If microbial, viral or other contaminations are discovered in metreleptin or the facilities of our contract manufacturer, we may need to cease the manufacture of metreleptin for an extended period of time to investigate and remediate the contaminant. A contamination, recall, raw material shortage, or other supply disruption could adversely impact or disrupt commercial manufacturing of metreleptin or could result in a withdrawal of metreleptin from the market. Any such disruption, in turn, could adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for metreleptin, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and expectations for financial performance.. The FDA, the EMA and other regulatory authorities require that drug products be manufactured according to cGMP.  Any failure by our third-party manufacturers to comply with cGMP could lead to a shortage of our products. In addition, such failure could be the basis for action by the FDA, the EMA or regulatory authorities in other territories or countries to withdraw approvals previously granted to us and for other regulatory action, including seizure, injunction or other civil or criminal penalties. For example, in February 2017, the original contract manufacturer for metreleptin drug product received a Warning Letter from the FDA citing significant violations of cGMP regulations at the manufacturing facility where metreleptin drug product is manufactured. In response, the manufacturer may make modifications to the line on which metreleptin drug product is filled. We believe that we have sufficient inventory of drug substance for each of our products to maintain a supply for more than one year. The failure of any of our third-party manufacturers to address any concerns raised by the FDA or foreign regulators could lead to plant shutdown or the delay or withholding of product approval by the FDA in additional indications, or by foreign regulators in any indication, including, with respect to metreleptin, the MAA in the EMA for GL and the PL subset. Certain countries may impose additional requirements on the manufacturing of drug products or drug substance, and on our third-party manufacturers, as part of the regulatory approval process for our products in such countries. The failure by us or our third-party manufacturers to satisfy such requirements could impact our ability to obtain or maintain approval of our products in such countries.. The FDA, the EU Member States and other regulatory agencies outside the U.S. and the EU enforce laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses. Violations of these laws and regulations, and the resulting enforcement actions by these agencies, can result in significant liability.. The FDA, the regulatory authorities of the EU Member States and other regulatory agencies outside the U.S. and the EU strictly regulate the promotional claims that may be made about prescription drug products. In particular, a drug product may not be promoted in a jurisdiction prior to approval or for uses that are not approved by the FDA, the EC, the regulatory authorities of the EU Member States or such other regulatory agencies, as applicable, as reflected in the product's approved prescribing information or summary of product characteristics. In the U.S., promotion of products for unapproved (or off-label) uses may result in enforcement letters, inquiries and investigations, and civil and criminal sanctions by the FDA. Promotion of products for. 66. off-label uses in the U.S. can also result in false claims litigation under federal and state statutes, which can lead to consent decrees, civil monetary penalties, restitution, criminal fines and imprisonment, and exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs.  Aegerion has been the subject of such investigations and enforcement in connection with the JUXTAPID Investigations and the related Settlement.  Cooperation with the JUXTAPID Investigations and negotiation of and compliance with the Settlement has been and will continue to be costly and burdensome on our management and other resources, and our business has suffered reputational harm.. In addition, Novelion or Aegerion may see new governmental investigations of or actions against it citing additional theories of recovery, or may encounter difficulties and expend considerable further resources in complying with the Settlement. The JUXTAPID Investigations and the Settlement have resulted in third party demands and may in the future give rise to third party demands, claims or litigation, including demands or claims by, or litigation with, third party payers, healthcare providers, patients or investors, for matters related to the subject matter of or disclosure in connection with such Investigations or the Settlement. For example, Aegerion has received two demand letters, one from an insurance company, seeking reimbursement for the JUXTAPID claims it paid based on alleged false misrepresentations made by Aegerion, and the second from an investor in Aegerion's Convertible Notes alleging that it purchased the notes based on misrepresentations and omissions. The JUXTAPID Investigations and the Settlements could also lead to potential investigations, claims or litigation by consumer protection agencies or groups (including State Attorneys General consumer protection units), or provide a basis for product liability claims or litigation.  Such claims or investigations, regardless of the merits, can be costly to resolve, and may lead to lengthy litigation and settlement negotiations, the results of which could require us to pay significant amounts of damages.  Such third party claims often unfold in a public manner, and any public claims can encourage further claims from additional third parties. See the \"Legal Proceedings\" section of this Annual Report for further information regarding the JUXTAPID Investigations, including the Settlement, and other ongoing investigations and legal proceedings.. The ongoing investigations and litigation involving Aegerion, including the JUXTAPID Investigations and related third party claims, and future investigations or litigation in which we are involved could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and share price, and divert the attention of our management from operating our business and may be disruptive to our employees, possibly resulting in further employee attrition. In addition, the existence of the investigations, including the JUXTAPID Investigations, and related activities, have impacted, and may continue to impact, the willingness of some physicians to prescribe JUXTAPID and/or MYALEPT.. Our relationships with customers and payers in the U.S. are subject to applicable anti-kickback, fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations, violations of which could expose us to criminal sanctions, civil penalties, contractual damages, and reputational harm and could diminish future earnings and prevent us from achieving our expected financial results.. Our arrangements with third-party payers and customers in the U.S. expose us to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations, including the federal healthcare Anti-Kickback Statute, the False Claims Act, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (\"HIPAA\") and the Physician Payment Sunshine Act, and analogous state and foreign laws and regulations that may regulate the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we market, sell and distribute our products, as discussed above under the heading \"Promotional Activities and Interactions with Healthcare Providers and Patients.\". We are also subject to laws and regulations covering data privacy and the protection of health-related and other personal information. The legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing focus on privacy and data protection issues which may affect our business, including recently enacted laws in many jurisdictions where we operate.. Failure to comply with these regulatory frameworks, including healthcare laws and laws and regulations covering data privacy and the protection of health-related and other personal information, could result in government enforcement actions, which could include civil or criminal penalties, private litigation and/or adverse publicity and could negatively affect our operating results and business. In addition, we obtain patient health information from most healthcare providers who prescribe our products and research institutions with which we collaborate, and they are subject to privacy and security requirements under HIPAA. Although we are not directly subject to HIPAA other than with respect to providing certain employee benefits, we could potentially be subject to criminal penalties if we knowingly obtain or disclose individually identifiable health information maintained by a HIPAA-covered entity in a manner that is not authorized or permitted by HIPAA.. In addition to the JUXTAPID Investigations, we or our subsidiaries, including Aegerion, could become subject to other government investigations and related subpoenas. Subpoenas are often associated with previously filed qui tam actions, or lawsuits filed under seal under the federal civil False Claims Act. Qui tam actions are brought by private plaintiffs suing on behalf of the federal government for alleged federal civil False Claims Act violations. The time and expense associated with responding to. 67. subpoenas, and any related qui tam or other actions, may be extensive, and we cannot predict the results of our review of the responsive documents and underlying facts or the results of such actions. Any investigation, including the investigations described in detail in the \"Legal Proceedings\" section of this Annual Report, could result in civil and/or criminal sanctions being levied against us or Aegerion, including significant fines, sanctions, and other negative consequences that will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. Aegerion's Settlement has resulted in material fines, sanctions and other remedies against Aegerion. Responding to subpoenas and investigations in general is costly and time-consuming. Moreover, responding to any additional government investigations, defending any claims raised, and any resulting fines, restitution, damages and penalties, settlement payments and administrative actions, as well as any related actions brought by shareholders or other third parties, could have further material adverse impacts beyond those attributable to the JUXTAPID Investigations and the Settlement, including on our reputation, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and share price. These investigations have diverted, and may continue to divert, the attention of our management from operating our business, and have been disruptive, and may continue to be disruptive, to our employees, possibly resulting in employee attrition. In addition, the existence of the investigations described in detail in the \"Legal Proceedings\" section of this Annual Report, and related activities, have impacted, and may continue to impact, the willingness of some physicians to prescribe JUXTAPID and/or MYALEPT.. The number and complexity of both federal and state laws continue to increase, and additional governmental resources are being used to enforce these laws and to prosecute companies and individuals who are believed to be violating them. In particular, the Healthcare Reform Act includes a number of provisions aimed at strengthening the government's ability to pursue anti-kickback and false claims cases against pharmaceutical manufacturers and other healthcare entities, including substantially increased funding for healthcare fraud enforcement activities, enhanced investigative powers, and amendments to the False Claims Act that make it easier for the government and whistleblowers to pursue alleged violations of the Anti-Kickback Statute, the Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act (the \"FDCA\"), the False Claims Act and other relevant laws. While the evolving nature of this regulatory framework makes it difficult to predict what effect the framework and any recent or future changes will have on our business, we anticipate that government scrutiny of pharmaceutical sales and marketing practices will continue for the foreseeable future and subject us to the risk of government investigations and enforcement actions. For example, federal enforcement agencies recently have shown interest in, and engaged in enforcement actions against, pharmaceutical companies' product and patient assistance programs, including manufacturer reimbursement support services and relationships with specialty pharmacies, as well as contributions by companies to third-party 501(c)(3) charitable organizations that assist patients in accessing treatment for certain diseases and conditions. This was also a part of the JUXTAPID Investigations, including certain contributions that were not resolved in the Settlement. Some of these investigations have resulted in significant civil and criminal settlements. Responding to a government investigation or enforcement action would be expensive and time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition and growth prospects.. Enacted and future legislation and related regulations may increase the difficulty and cost for us to commercialize lomitapide or metreleptin, or any other product or any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval, and may affect the prices we are able to obtain for them, if and where approved.. In the U.S., there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes and proposed changes regarding the healthcare system that restrict or regulate post-approval activities, and may affect our ability to profitably sell JUXTAPID or MYALEPT, or any other product or any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval. Legislative and regulatory proposals have been made to expand post-approval requirements and restrict sales and promotional activities for pharmaceutical products. We cannot predict whether additional legislative changes will be enacted, or whether the FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations will be changed, or what the impact of such changes for JUXTAPID or MYALEPT may be. In addition, increased scrutiny by Congress of the FDA's approval process may subject us to more stringent product labeling and post-marketing testing and other requirements.. In the U.S., most outpatient prescription drugs, including JUXTAPID and MYALEPT, may be covered under Medicare Part D. Medicare Part D prescription drug plans are authorized to use formularies where they can limit the number of drugs that will be covered in any therapeutic class and/or impose differential cost sharing or other utilization management techniques. The possibility that our products will be subject to such formularies places pressure on us to contain and reduce costs, which could negatively impact our commercialization success. Changes to Medicare Part D that give plans more freedom to limit coverage or manage utilization, and/or other cost reduction initiatives in the program could decrease the coverage and price that we receive for any approved products, and could be detrimental to our business.. The Healthcare Reform Act substantially changed the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers. The law contains a number of provisions that affect coverage and reimbursement of drug products and/or that could potentially reduce the demand for our products such as:. 68. • increasing drug rebates under state Medicaid programs for brand name prescription drugs and extending those rebates to Medicaid managed care; and. • requiring drug manufacturers to provide a 50% discount on Medicare Part D brand name prescription drugs sold to Medicare beneficiaries whose prescription drug costs cause the beneficiaries to be subject to the Medicare Part D coverage cap (i.e., the so-called donut hole).. Modifications to or repeal of all or certain provisions of the Healthcare Reform Act has been a considerable focus of President Trump's term, and certain changes have already been approved and others changes may be pursued. We cannot predict the ultimate content, timing or effect of any changes to the Healthcare Reform Act or other federal and state reform efforts. There is no assurance that federal or state health care reform will not adversely affect our business and financial results, and we cannot predict how future federal or state legislative, judicial or administrative changes relating to healthcare reform will affect our business.. Any significant spending reductions affecting Medicare, Medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs that may be implemented and/or any significant taxes or fees that may be imposed on us, as part of any broader deficit reduction effort or legislative replacement to current laws or regulations, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.  Further, countries outside the U.S. may make changes to their healthcare systems, which may in the future affect the revenues we generate from sales of lomitapide and, if approved outside of the U.S., metreleptin, and other product or product candidates for which we obtain approval.. We face extensive regulatory requirements, and may continue to face future development and regulatory difficulties.. Even after marketing approval, a regulatory authority may still impose significant restrictions on a product's indications, conditions for use, distribution or marketing or impose ongoing requirements for post-marketing surveillance, post-approval studies or clinical trials. JUXTAPID is available in the U.S. only through the JUXTAPID REMS program. We must certify all healthcare providers who prescribe JUXTAPID and the pharmacies that dispense the medicine, and under the JUXTAPID REMS program, patients must now formally acknowledge that they understand the goals of the JUXTAPID REMS program and have undergone counseling by their prescriber to this effect. The FDA has also required that we periodically assess the effectiveness of the JUXTAPID REMS program. The FDA assesses on a periodic basis whether a REMS program is meeting its goals and whether the goals or elements of the plan should be modified. The modifications to the JUXTAPID REMS program approved in January 2017 and implemented later in 2017, including the labeling modifications, may negatively affect the ability or willingness of a healthcare professional to prescribe JUXTAPID, a patient to be willing to initiate or continue on therapy, or insurance companies, managed care organizations, other private payers, and government entities that provide reimbursement for medical costs to continue to provide reimbursement for JUXTAPID, in which case we will have difficulty achieving or maintaining market acceptance of JUXTAPID, and our business and ability to achieve our financial expectations will be negatively impacted. For additional information regarding changes to the JUXTAPID REMS program, see the risk factor captioned \"We may not be able to maintain or expand market acceptance for lomitapide or metreleptin in the U.S. or to gain market acceptance in markets outside the U.S. where we commercialize such products, and we may continue to see a significant number of patients who choose not to start or stay on therapy.\". Similarly, MYALEPT is available only through the MYALEPT REMS program because of the potential for development of anti-metreleptin antibodies and the associated risks of serious adverse sequelae (such as severe infections, excessive weight gain, glucose intolerance, diabetes mellitus) and risk of lymphoma. As a part of this program, we must certify all healthcare providers who prescribe MYALEPT, certify the pharmacies that dispense the medicine, and obtain prescriber attestation that each patient has a diagnosis consistent with GL. We are responsible for maintaining, monitoring and evaluating the implementation of the MYALEPT REMS program.. Regulatory authorities have significant post-marketing authority, including, the authority to require labeling changes based on new safety information, and to require post-marketing studies or clinical trials to evaluate serious safety risks related to the use of a drug or biologic. For example, in July 2015, the FDA notified Aegerion that they considered post-marketing reports of anaphylaxis to be new safety information, and requested that we add it to the prescribing information for MYALEPT. Although Aegerion complied with that request, the FDA could request that additional safety information be included.. We are subject to certain post-marketing commitments to the FDA and the EMA with respect to lomitapide and to the FDA with respect to metreleptin, and we expect the EMA to subject metreleptin to post-marketing commitments as part of any approval of metreleptin. We expect that the regulatory authorities in certain other countries outside the U.S. and EU where our products are, or may be, approved may impose post-approval obligations, including patient registries, and requirements that may in some countries be more onerous than those imposed by the FDA and EMA. Depending on the nature of these post-marketing. 69. studies, we may be required to provide our products free of charge to participants in the studies in certain countries even if we have pricing and reimbursement approval in such countries, which would negatively impact our level of revenues.. Where our products are approved outside the U.S. or are in the future approved, we are and will also be subject to other ongoing regulatory requirements governing the labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, distribution, promotion, recordkeeping and submission of safety, REMS, risk management program and other post-marketing information, including adverse reactions, and any changes to the approved product, product labeling, or manufacturing process. As a company with limited internal resources and expertise in these areas, we rely on third parties to facilitate our compliance with many of these extensive regulatory requirements, which often include detailed record keeping and reporting requirements. We and the third parties we work with may not be able to fully comply with these requirements or the reports we file with regulatory authorities may result in changes to our post-marketing compliance requirements. In addition, manufacturers of drug products and their facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA, the EMA, the regulatory authorities of the EU Member States and other regulatory authorities for compliance with cGMP, and other regulations.. If we, or third-party service providers acting on our behalf, or our drug substance or drug product or the manufacturing facilities for our drug substance or drug product, fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, including global pharmacovigilance requirements and meeting the requirements of the JUXTAPID and MYALEPT REMS programs, a regulatory agency may:. • issue warning letters or untitled letters;. • seek an injunction or impose civil or criminal penalties or monetary fines;. • suspend, withdraw or alter the conditions of our marketing approval;. • require us to provide corrective information to healthcare practitioners;. • require us to modify our product labels;. • suspend any ongoing clinical trials;. • require entrance into a consent decree, which, for example, is a component of Aegerion's Settlement, which can include imposition of various fines, reimbursements for inspection costs, required due dates for specific actions and penalties for noncompliance;. • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to applications submitted by us;. • suspend or impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements;. • seize or detain products, refuse to permit the import or export of products or request that we initiate a product recall;. • impose further refinements and enhanced obligations under existing risk management and other forms of post-marketing requirements and programs; or. • refuse to allow us to enter into supply contracts, including government contracts.. The occurrence of any event or penalty described above may inhibit our ability to commercialize our products and to generate revenues, which would have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations.. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials and registry studies and to perform related services, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including by failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of such clinical trials and compliance with post-marketing requirements. We may become involved in commercial disputes with these parties.. We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials or registry studies, or perform pharmacovigilance and REMS program monitoring and reporting, and we rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, academic institutions, clinical investigators, specialty pharmacies and other third-party service providers, to perform these functions. Our reliance on these third parties for clinical development, pharmacovigilance and REMS program activities reduces our control over these activities. However, if we sponsor clinical trials, we are responsible for ensuring that each of the clinical trials that we sponsor is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trial. We are responsible. 70. for REMS program activities in connection with marketing lomitapide and metreleptin in the U.S. and pharmacovigilance monitoring and reporting for all of our products on a global basis, except that Shionogi is responsible for these activities for metreleptin in Japan, Korea and Taiwan, and Amryt is responsible for these activities for lomitapide in the EEA, Switzerland, Turkey and certain Middle Eastern and North African territories, including Israel. Moreover, the FDA and the regulatory authorities in the EU and Japan require us to comply with standards, commonly referred to as Good Clinical Practices, for conducting, recording, and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity and confidentiality of trial participants are protected. Our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. Furthermore, these third parties may have relationships with other entities, some of which may be our competitors. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, if they need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the data they provide is compromised or delayed due to the failure to adhere to regulatory requirements or our clinical trial protocols, or for other reasons, our current marketing authorizations may be revoked, suspended, or revised to be more stringent, our development programs may be extended, delayed or terminated, additional marketing approvals for lomitapide or metreleptin, or any other product or any product candidate we might acquire, may be delayed or denied in the targeted indication or jurisdiction, and we may be delayed or precluded in our efforts to successfully commercialize lomitapide, metreleptin, or any other product for targeted indications or in the targeted jurisdiction or it may impact existing approvals, which could have a materially negative impact on our commercialization efforts.. In addition, we may, from time to time, become involved in commercial disputes with these third parties, for example regarding the quality of the services provided by these third parties or our ultimate liability to pay for services they purported to provide, or the value of such services. In some cases, we may be required to pay for work that was not performed to our specifications or not utilized by us, and these obligations may be material and may therefore have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. If we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program or other governmental pricing programs in the U.S., we could be subject to additional reimbursement requirements, penalties, sanctions and fines which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. We participate in various government programs and contracts that require us to calculate and report certain prices for our products to government agencies or provide rebates or discounted pricing on products purchased to certain purchasers or government payers. The requirements for calculating prices and rebates are complex and subject to change. Changes to such requirements may affect our business and operations. We may also have reimbursement obligations or be subject to penalties if we fail to provide timely and accurate information to the government, pay the correct rebates or offer the correct discounted pricing.. For example, because of our participation in the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, we are required to pay a rebate for each unit of our lomitapide or metreleptin reimbursed by a state Medicaid program as a condition of having federal funds made available to the states for our drugs under Medicaid and Medicare Part D. Those rebates are based on pricing data that we report on a monthly and quarterly basis to CMS, the federal agency that administers the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program. We may also participate in state Medicaid supplemental rebate programs which require payment of an incremental rebate to state Medicaid programs for covered utilization of our products. Price reductions as well as price increases that exceed the rate of inflation for our products, such as the price increase for MYALEPT in February of 2015, may result in increasing the rebates we are required to pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program or state Medicaid supplemental rebate programs and the discounts we are required to offer under the Public Health Service 340B drug pricing discount program, as discussed below.. To maintain coverage of our products under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program and Medicare Part D, we are required to extend significant discounts to certain \"covered entities\" (defined by statute to include certain types of hospitals and other healthcare providers that receive federal grants) that purchase products under the 340B Program. The 340B Program requires participating manufacturers to agree to charge such covered entities no more than the 340B \"ceiling price\" for the manufacturers' covered outpatient drugs. The 340B ceiling price is calculated using a statutory formula, which is based on the average manufacturer price (\"AMP\") and rebate amount for the covered outpatient drug as calculated under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program. \"Orphan drugs\" - those designated under section 526 of the FDCA, such as JUXTAPID and MYALEPT - are exempt from the ceiling price requirements with respect to drugs purchased by certain covered entities (i.e., rural referral centers, sole community hospitals, critical access hospitals, and free-standing cancer hospitals).. Pricing and rebate calculations vary among products and programs. The calculations are complex and are often subject to interpretation by governmental or regulatory agencies and the courts. For example, the Medicaid rebate amount is computed each quarter based on our submission to the CMS of our AMP and best price for the quarter. If we become aware that our reporting for prior quarters was incorrect, or has changed as a result of recalculation of the pricing data, we will be obligated to resubmit the corrected data for a period not to exceed twelve quarters from the quarter in which the data originally were due. Such restatements and recalculations would serve to increase our costs for complying with the laws and regulations governing the Medicaid Drug. 71. Rebate Program. Any corrections to our rebate calculations could result in an overage or underage in our rebate liability for past quarters, depending on the nature of the correction. Price recalculations also may affect the price that we will be required to charge certain safety net providers under the Public Health Service 340B drug discount program. In February 2015, we significantly increased the U.S. wholesale acquisition cost per 11.3 mg vial of MYALEPT. As a result of this substantial price increase, we continue to expect a significant gross-to-net adjustment for Medicaid rebates which will offset the majority of revenue from Medicaid and negatively impact net product sales in future quarters, since Medicaid rebates directly reduce our net product sales. The degree of such impact on our overall financial performance will depend on the percentage of MYALEPT patients that have Medicaid as their primary insurance coverage and the quantity of units ordered per patient. To date, approximately 34% of patients prescribed MYALEPT have been Medicaid beneficiaries. The number of patients prescribed MYALEPT in the future who are Medicaid beneficiaries could be higher than historical rates.. We are liable for errors associated with our submission of pricing data and for overcharging government payers. For example, in addition to retroactive rebates and the potential for 340B Program refunds, if we are found to have knowingly submitted false AMP or best price information to the government, we may be liable for civil monetary penalties in the amount of $100,000 per item of false information. Our failure to submit monthly/quarterly AMP and best price data on a timely basis could result in a civil monetary penalty of $10,000 per day for each day the submission is late beyond the due date. In the event that CMS were to terminate our rebate agreement, no federal payments would be available under Medicaid or Medicare Part D for our products. In addition, if we overcharge the government in connection with our Federal Supply Schedule (\"FSS\") contract or under any other government program, we will be required to refund the difference to the government. Failure to make necessary disclosures and/or to identify contract overcharges could result in allegations against us under the federal civil False Claims Act and other laws and regulations.. To maintain coverage of our products under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program and Medicare Part D and when purchased by four federal agencies, we are required to participate in the FSS pricing program. Under this program, we are obligated to make JUXTAPID and MYALEPT available for procurement on an FSS contract at a negotiated price and also charge a price to four federal agencies-VA, Department of Defense, Public Health Service, and Coast Guard-that is no higher than the statutory Federal Ceiling Price (\"FCP\"). The FCP is based on the non-federal average manufacturer price (\"Non-FAMP\"), which we calculate and report to the VA on a quarterly and annual basis. If a company misstates Non-FAMPs or FCPs it must restate these figures. Pursuant to the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992, knowing provision of false information in connection with a Non-FAMP filing can subject a manufacturer to penalties of $100,000 for each item of false information.. FSS contracts are federal procurement contracts that include standard government terms and conditions, separate pricing for each product, and extensive disclosure and certification requirements. In addition to the four agencies described above, all other federal agencies and some non-federal entities are authorized to access FSS contracts. FSS contractors are permitted to charge FSS purchasers other than the four federal agencies \"negotiated pricing\" for covered drugs that is not capped by the FCP; instead, such pricing is negotiated based on a mandatory disclosure of the contractor's commercial \"most favored customer\" pricing. Moreover, all items on FSS contracts are subject to a standard FSS contract clause that requires FSS contract price reductions under certain circumstances where pricing to an agreed \"tracking\" customer is reduced. In July 2016, we concluded negotiations with the Department of Veterans Affairs (the \"VA\"), and effective August 15, 2016, we have an FSS contract for both JUXTAPID and MYALEPT.. We also participate in the Tricare Retail Pharmacy program, under which we pay quarterly rebates on utilization of JUXTAPID and MYALEPT when the products are dispensed through the Tricare Retail Pharmacy network to Tricare beneficiaries. The rebates are calculated as the difference between annual Non-FAMP and FCP.. If we overcharge the government in connection with the VA FSS pricing program or the Tricare Retail Pharmacy program, whether due to a misstated FCP or otherwise, we are required to refund the difference to the government. Failure to make necessary disclosures and/or to identify contract overcharges could result in allegations against us under the False Claims Act and other laws and regulations.. Unexpected refunds to the U.S. government, and responding to a government investigation or enforcement action, would be expensive and time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. 72. Product development is a long, expensive and uncertain process, and we may terminate one or more of our development programs. If we do not achieve our projected development goals in the timeframes we expect and announce, or otherwise terminate one or more of our development programs, marketing approval and commercialization of our products may be delayed or otherwise cease. As a result, our credibility may suffer, our share price may decline and we may incur significant expenses that could adversely affect our prospects, our financial condition, and results of operations.. For strategic and operational planning purposes, we may estimate the timing of the accomplishment of various scientific, clinical, regulatory and other product development goals. These milestones may include the commencement or completion of scientific studies and clinical trials and the submission and approval of regulatory filings. From time to time, we may publicly announce the expected timing of some of these milestones. All of these milestones and timelines are based on a variety of assumptions. The actual timing of these milestones, if even achieved, can vary dramatically compared to our estimates, in many cases for reasons beyond our control.. We may determine to discontinue or narrow certain programs because we determine they do not have potential or because we do not have sufficient resources to dedicate to such efforts, or we may elect to suspend, terminate or modify one or more of our programs, which could include changing our clinical or business model for further development, including by attempting to extract or monetize value from the program by either selling, out-licensing or potentially partnering part or all of the program. For example, through Aegerion, although we planned to submit a supplemental biologics licensing application (an \"sBLA\") to the FDA in 2017 to expand MYALEPT's indication in the U.S. to the PL subset, we received feedback in May 2017 from the FDA that a prospective placebo-controlled study will be required to support a marketing application in the U.S. for the use of metreleptin to treat a subset of the PL indication. We are evaluating next steps. If we terminate and seek to monetize part or all of a program in which we have invested significant resources, or we continue to expend further resources on a program and subsequently fail to achieve our intended goals, our prospects may suffer, as we will have expended resources on a program that may not provide a suitable return, if any, on our investment and we may have missed the opportunity to allocate those resources to potentially more productive uses. In addition, in the event of a termination of any product program, we may incur significant expenses and costs associated with the termination of the program or could be criticized or lose credibility in the industry, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.. Failures or delays in the completion or commencement of any planned clinical trials of our products could result in increased costs to us and delay, prevent or limit our ability to generate revenues with respect to the relevant product in a new territory or indication. In addition, positive results in preclinical studies and earlier clinical trials of our products may not be replicated in later clinical trials, or changes in regulatory requirements or unanticipated events during our clinical trials may occur, which could result in development delay or a failure to obtain marketing approval or affect market acceptance.. The commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed or prevented for a number of reasons, including:. • difficulties obtaining regulatory clearance to commence a clinical trial or complying with conditions imposed by a regulatory authority regarding the scope or term of a clinical trial;. • delays in reaching or failing to reach agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical research organizations (\"CROs\") and trial sites, and problems with the performance of CROs;. • insufficient or inadequate supply or quality of a product or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials, or other manufacturing issues;. • difficulties obtaining institutional review board (\"IRB\") approval or Ethics Committee's positive opinion to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site;. • challenges recruiting and enrolling patients to participate in clinical trials for a variety of reasons, including the size and nature of a patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the trial, the nature of trial protocol, the availability of approved treatments for the relevant disease and the competition from other clinical trial programs for similar indications;. • severe or unexpected drug-related side effects experienced by patients in a clinical trial;. • if we do not have the funding or resources necessary to conduct, maintain or conclude such trials; and. • difficulties retaining patients who have enrolled in a clinical trial but may be prone to withdraw due to the rigors of the trials, lack of efficacy, side effects or personal issues, or who are lost to further follow-up.. 73. For example, in May 2016, in connection with our MAA filing for metreleptin for the treatment of GL patients and a subset of PL patients in the EU, the EMA's PDCO issued a summary report regarding the metreleptin pediatric investigation plan (\"PIP\"). The PDCO expressed concern that the number of young patients with lipodystrophy included in the clinical trials proposed to be included in the PIP is very limited, and that no information on metreleptin as used by European patients was provided. In July 2016, the PDCO approved our proposal that we conduct a study in GL patients below the age of 6, as a deferred commitment. Given the prevalence of GL and other factors, conducting a clinical trial in GL patients in the EU below a defined age will likely make such a trial lengthy in nature and potentially difficult to complete. Even if we conduct a study in pediatric GL patients, we may not be able to show, to the satisfaction of the EMA, that metreleptin is safe and effective in pediatric patients under the age of 6, and we may never receive approval for this indication in the EMA. The lack of approval to market metreleptin for the pediatric GL population outside of the U.S. would limit expansion of our product revenue potential. Further, we plan to initiate, by late 2018, a phase 2 trial assessing metreleptin in HMD, subject to approval of our protocol and statistical plan by applicable regulatory authorities. Such authorities could impose conditions regarding our development plan that could delay commencement of the trial or we may face other hurdles to starting the trial. Even if our development plan is approved by applicable regulatory authorities, we could encounter difficulties enrolling patients and/or completing the trial.. Clinical trials may also be delayed or terminated as a result of ambiguous or negative interim results, or the results or reevaluation, of other clinical, preclinical or nonclinical studies. In addition, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us, the FDA, the regulatory authorities of the EU Member States and other countries, the IRBs or the Ethics Committees at the sites, or a data safety monitoring board overseeing the clinical trial at issue, or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including:. • failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols;. • failure to respect applicable data privacy obligations;. • inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities;. • unforeseen safety issues or lack of effectiveness; and. • lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial.. If we do not meet timelines or achieve milestones in a timely manner or at all, the market approval and commercialization of the relevant product may be delayed or denied, and our credibility may be adversely affected and, as a result, our share price may decline.. Positive results in preclinical or clinical studies of lomitapide or metreleptin, or any other product or any product candidate that we may acquire, license or develop, may not be predictive of similar results in humans during further clinical trials. Accordingly, there is, for example, a possibility that any potential future clinical development of metreleptin for patients with HMD, in pediatric patients, or for any new indications may generate results that are not consistent with the results of the Phase 3 clinical study for the product, or the results of the Phase 2 clinical studies that showed, for instance, that metreleptin reduced the weight of overweight and obese subjects with low leptin levels, or the results of other relevant studies. The results of such clinical trials may not be sufficient to gain approval of metreleptin in any new population or indication, or may generate data that may cause reevaluation of and/or negatively impact the existing data and labels for approved indications. Our preclinical studies or clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional preclinical studies or clinical trials. Moreover, preclinical and clinical data can be susceptible to varying interpretations and analysis, and many companies that believed their product candidates performed satisfactorily in preclinical studies and clinical trials have nonetheless failed to obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for their products.. Changes in regulatory requirements and guidance or unanticipated events during our clinical trials may occur, and as a result we may need to amend clinical trial protocols. Amendments may require us to resubmit our clinical trial protocols to the FDA, IRBs, Ethics Committees or the regulatory authorities of the applicable jurisdictions for review and approval, which may impact the cost, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial. If we experience delays in completion of, or if we terminate, any of our clinical trials or generate results that differ from earlier clinical trial results, the commercial prospects for the applicable product may be harmed.. 74. Recent federal legislation and actions by state and local governments may permit re-importation of drugs from foreign countries into the U.S., including foreign countries where the drugs are sold at lower prices than in the U.S. Similarly, purchasers in the EU are permitted to purchase products in one EU Member State and import them into another EU Member State where the price may be higher. These practices could materially adversely affect our operating results and our overall financial condition.. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act contains provisions that may change importation laws and expand pharmacists' and wholesalers' abilities to import lower priced versions of an approved drug and competing products from Canada, where there are government price controls. These changes to U.S. importation laws, which will not take effect unless and until the Secretary of Health and Human Services certifies that the changes will pose no additional risk to the public's health and safety, may result in a significant reduction in the cost of products to consumers. While the Secretary of Health and Human Services has not yet announced any plans to make this required certification, we may ultimately face the risk that a distributor or other purchaser of JUXTAPID or MYALEPT in the U.S. will be permitted to import lower priced product from a country outside the U.S. that places price controls on pharmaceutical products. This risk may be particularly applicable to JUXTAPID and MYALEPT as drugs that currently command premium prices, and especially to JUXTAPID, as a drug that is formulated for oral delivery. In addition, some state governments have implemented importation schemes for their citizens and, in the absence of federal action to curtail such activities, other state governments may launch importation efforts.. In the EU, a purchaser cannot be restricted from purchasing a medicinal procedure in one EU Member State and importing the product into another EU Member State in which it is also subject to marketing authorization, provided the product concerned is the same or very similar to a product already authorized for sale in the Member State into which it is to be imported. This activity is called parallel importing, which is permitted in the EU based on the principle of free movement of goods. As a result, a purchaser in one EU Member State where lomitapide or, if approved, metreleptin, is sold at a specific price may seek to import the product from another EU country where the product is sold at a lower price.. The re-importation of lomitapide or metreleptin into the U.S. market from a foreign market and the parallel importation of lomitapide, and, if approved, metreleptin, among countries of the EU or other regions could negatively impact our revenues and anticipated financial results, possibly materially.. We face potential product liability exposure, and, if claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability.. The use of any product or product candidate in clinical trials and the sale and use of any product for which we have or obtain marketing approval expose us to the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims might be brought against us by consumers, healthcare providers or others selling or otherwise coming into contact with our products, or any product candidates. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we could incur substantial liabilities. In addition, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in:. • decreased demand or coverage for our products and any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval;. • impairment of our business reputation and exposure to adverse publicity;. • increased warnings on product labels;. • withdrawal of clinical trial participants;. • costs as a result of related litigation;. • distraction of management's attention from our primary business;. • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants;. • loss of revenues; and. • the inability to successfully commercialize our products or any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval.. Although we have obtained product liability insurance coverage for both our clinical trials and our commercial exposures, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to reimburse us for any expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. On occasion, large judgments have been awarded in class. 75. action lawsuits relating to drugs that had unanticipated side effects or warnings found to be inadequate. The cost of any product liability litigation or other proceedings, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. A product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could harm our reputation and cause our share price to decline and, if the claim is successful and judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Our operations outside of the U.S. subject us to a variety of risks, which could materially adversely affect our business.. In each country outside the U.S. in which lomitapide is approved, or where we are making lomitapide or metreleptin available on a named patient or compassionate use basis before it has obtained marketing approval, we are subject to additional risks related to international business operations, directly and as a result of the activities of third parties with whom we do business, including:. • differing regulatory requirements for drug approvals in foreign countries;. • pricing, pricing deals and reimbursement approvals that have a negative impact on our global pricing strategy;. • potentially reduced protection for intellectual property rights;. • the potential for parallel importing;. • unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements;. • economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets, including, for example, the current political instability in Brazil, our largest source of revenues on a country-by-country basis outside the U.S.;. • compliance with foreign and U.S. laws, rules, regulations or industry codes, including data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, anti-competition regulations, import, export and trade restrictions, and required reporting of payments to healthcare professionals and others;. • negative consequences from changes in applicable tax laws;. • foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses and reduced revenues, and other obligations incident to doing business in another country;. • workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the U.S.;. • production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad;. • dependence upon third parties to perform distribution, pharmacovigilance, quality control testing, collections and other aspects of the distribution, supply chain and commercialization of our products that are required to be performed in order to conduct such activities in international markets, and our ability to effectively manage such third parties; and. • business interruptions resulting from geopolitical and economic events or actions, including social unrest, economic crises, war, terrorism, or natural disasters.. In addition to the foregoing, we are subject to anti-corruption laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the \"FCPA\") and various other anti-corruption laws. The FCPA generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business and/or other benefits. An aspect of the SEC's ongoing investigation into Aegerion's disclosures and activities relates to alleged FCPA violations in Brazil.  These potential violations are excluded from the Settlement and may therefore subject us to additional fines, penalties or remedial actions.. Our activities outside the U.S. and those of our employees, licensees, distributors, manufacturers, clinical research organizations and other third parties who act on our behalf or with whom we do business subject us to the risk of investigation and prosecution under foreign and U.S. laws. For example, as described in detail in the \"Legal Proceedings\" section of this Annual Report, federal and state authorities in Brazil are conducting an investigation to determine whether there have been violations of Brazilian laws related to sales of JUXTAPID in Brazil. These issues could negatively affect our ability to generate product revenues. 76. for JUXTAPID consistent with our expectations, and may impact our ability to achieve profitability or cash-flow positive operations. Prescriptions for and named patient sales of MYALEPT in Brazil may also be negatively affected.. Despite our ongoing efforts to ensure compliance with foreign and domestic laws, our employees, agents, and companies with which we do business may nevertheless take actions in violation of our policies, for which we may be ultimately held responsible. If so, we may be subject to criminal or civil penalties or other punitive measures, including restrictions on our ability to continue selling in certain markets. Any such outcome, or any allegation or investigation regarding such actions involving us, could harm our reputation and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may prevent or delay our product development efforts and stop us from commercializing or may increase the costs of commercializing our products.. Our success will depend in part on our ability to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. There could be issued patents of which we are not aware that our products infringe. There also could be patents that we believe we do not infringe, but that we may ultimately be found to infringe. Moreover, patent applications are in some cases maintained in secrecy until patents are issued. The publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature frequently occurs substantially later than the date on which the underlying discoveries were made and patent applications were filed. Because patents can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications of which we are unaware that may later result in issued patents that our products infringe. For example, pending applications may exist that provide support or can be amended to provide support for a claim that results in an issued patent that our product infringes.. The pharmaceutical industry is characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights, such as the IPR challenges filed with the PTAB concerning certain patents directed to methods-of-use of lomitapide, which were dismissed by the PTAB in March 2017. Other parties may obtain patents in the future and allege that our products or the use of our technologies infringes these patent claims or that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. Likewise, third parties may challenge or infringe upon our existing or future patents.. Proceedings involving our patents or patent applications or those of others could:. • put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly;. • adversely impact the patentability of our inventions relating to our products;. • result in monetary damages, injunctive relief or otherwise harm our competitive position, including by limiting our marketing and selling activities, increasing the risk for generic competition, limiting our development and commercialization activities or requiring us to obtain licenses to use the relevant technology (which licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all); and. • otherwise negatively impact the enforceability, validity or scope of protection offered by our patents relating to our products.. Even if we are successful in these proceedings, we may incur substantial costs and divert management's time and attention in pursuing these proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on us. If we are unable to avoid infringing the patent rights of others, we may be required to seek a license, defend an infringement action or challenge the validity of the patents in court. Patent litigation is costly and time consuming. We may not have sufficient resources to bring these actions to a successful conclusion.. In addition, if we do not obtain a license, develop or obtain non-infringing technology, fail to defend an infringement action successfully or have infringed patents declared invalid, we may:. • incur substantial monetary damages;. • encounter significant delays in expanding the market of our products, or bringing any future products to market; and. • be precluded from manufacturing or selling any products, or any future product candidates.. In such event, our business could be adversely affected, possibly materially.. 77. If we are not able to adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information, the value of our technology and product portfolio could be significantly diminished.. We rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary technologies, especially where we do not believe patent protection is adequate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information, and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information. For example, the FDA is currently considering whether to make additional information publicly available on a routine basis, and the EMA is planning to amplify its disclosure rules. These changes could mean that information that we may consider to be trade secrets or other proprietary information may be disclosed, and it is not clear at the present time how the FDA's and EMA's disclosure policies may change in the future, if at all. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position.. If we fail to comply with our obligations in our license agreements for our products, we could lose license rights that are important to our business or have to make additional payments to our licensors.. Our existing license agreements with respect to our products impose, and we expect any future license agreements that we enter into will impose, various diligence, milestone payment, royalty, insurance, reporting, audit and other obligations on us. If we fail to comply with such obligations or encounter disagreements with our license partners, we could lose license rights that are important to our business. For further information regarding our obligations and restrictions under our license agreements for our products, see the \"Licensing\" section of this Annual Report.. If we fail to comply with the obligations and restrictions under our license agreements, the applicable licensor may have the right to seek financial payments or damages and terminate the license, in which case we might not be able to market any product that is covered by the license. Further, the terms of such license agreements can be intensely negotiated, complex and subject to differing interpretations. Any breach or alleged breach (whether intentional or unintentional), or termination, of the license agreements applicable to our products, or any disagreements as to the application of the terms of our license agreements with our licensing partners, could expose us to considerable costs and expenses as such allegations, terminations or disputes can be costly to remedy or resolve (regardless of the merits), and may not be remedied or resolved in a manner favorable to us, or at all. For example, under our co-development agreement for zuretinol and the underlying license agreement between our co-development partner and the licensor of zuretinol, we and our co-development partner are required to use commercially reasonable and diligent efforts to develop and commercialize zuretinol. We and our co-development partner are also responsible for committing certain annual funding to support research and development of zuretinol, and the agreement between our co-development partner and the licensor requires the achievement of specific development milestones within certain timeframes, one of which was required to be achieved by December 31, 2016. However, the agreement contains provisions for extensions of those dates in certain circumstances. Based on the terms of these agreements, we believe that we may be entitled to certain additional extensions of that milestone date until December 31, 2019, along with a potential additional extension of up to 12 months should enrollment in a planned trial be delayed, provided that we continue to comply with the relevant provisions of the license agreements and expend certain minimum amounts on the development of zuretinol. Any breach or alleged breach of the quantitative or qualitative diligence provisions of these agreements could result in termination of our co-development agreement and our loss of the program and also expose us to considerable costs and expenses and any disputes may not be remedied or resolved in a manner favorable to us, or at all.. Any such difficulties with our license agreements could have a significant adverse effect on our business because of our reliance on the commercial success of our products.. The occurrence of cyber incidents, or a deficiency in cybersecurity, could negatively impact our business by causing a disruption to our operations, a compromise or corruption of confidential information, exposure to legal and regulatory action, or damage to our patient, partner or employee relationships, any of which could subject us to loss and harm our reputation.. A cyber incident is considered to be any event that threatens the confidentiality, integrity or availability of information resources. More specifically, a cyber incident is an intentional attack or an unintentional event that can include gaining unauthorized access to systems to disrupt operations, corrupt data or steal confidential information about patients, suppliers, partners or employees. A number of companies have recently experienced serious cyber incidents and breaches of their information technology systems. Cyber incidents pose risks both to our internal systems and to those we have outsourced, including the risk of operational interruption, damage to our reputation and relationships with patients, partners and employees, and private data exposure. We have implemented processes, procedures and controls to help mitigate these risks. However, these measures, as well as our increased. 78. awareness of the risk of a cyber incident, do not guarantee that our reputation, operations and financial results would not be adversely affected by such an incident.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, proprietary business information and patient data. This includes, where required or permitted by applicable laws, personally identifiable information. Certain third parties with whom we contract also collect and store such data related to clinical trial subjects and patients. The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise information stored on our networks or those of our partners. Any access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, recovery costs, disruption of our operations, including delays in our regulatory approval efforts, and damage our reputation, which could adversely affect our business.. Our future success depends on our ability to hire and retain our key executives and to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. We may encounter difficulties in managing our business with limited resources.. Our success depends upon retaining, recruiting and motivating key employees. Experienced employees in the biopharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are in high demand and competition for their talents can be intense.  We have entered into employment agreements with our executive officers and certain other employees, but any employee may terminate his or her employment with us at any time. Recent management turnover, our recent headcount reduction, litigation and government investigations, including the JUXTAPID Investigations, the Settlement, potential financing and investment challenges and other risks facing our business may adversely affect our ability to attract, motivate and retain executives and other key employees and keep them focused on applicable strategies and goals. The loss of the services of any of these executives or key employees, or our inability to recruit desirable candidates, could impede the achievement of our development and commercialization objectives and could have a negative impact on our stock price. Aegerion's workforce reductions in 2016 in connection with its cost-reduction plan, and the attrition thereafter, along with Novelion's workforce reductions in January 2018, have resulted in the loss of longer-term employees, the loss of institutional knowledge and expertise and the reallocation and combination of certain roles and responsibilities across the organization, which have had and could continue to have an adverse effect on our operations. We may lose out on business opportunities, not be able to comply with business requirements, and face reduced productivity among remaining employees, if employees are distracted, if morale is low or, if workloads are too burdensome or if continuing employees are unfamiliar with the tasks at hand.  As a result, our financial performance and our ability to commercialize lomitapide and metreleptin successfully, and to compete effectively, would be negatively affected.. We have incurred significant operating losses since our inception, and have not yet achieved profitability for any fiscal year. We may never be profitable.. We have incurred losses in each year since our inception. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $714.0 million. Substantially all of our operating losses resulted from costs incurred in connection with our development programs and from selling, general and administrative costs associated with our operations. The losses we have incurred to date, combined with potential future losses, have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our shareholders' (deficit) equity and working capital.. We expect to incur expenses related to the commercialization of lomitapide and metreleptin in the U.S. and in the key countries in which lomitapide is currently approved and being commercialized, including Japan, or in which lomitapide or metreleptin may be approved and commercialized in the future, and expected distribution of our products in Brazil and certain other countries as part of named patient supply or compassionate use; manufacturing costs for both lomitapide and metreleptin; the conduct of our observational cohort studies and other post-marketing commitments to the FDA for lomitapide and metreleptin, including the REMS program for each of our products; the conduct of any post-marketing commitments imposed by regulatory authorities in countries outside the U.S. and EU where our products are, or may be, approved; other possible clinical development activities for our products, including an anticipated clinical trial for metreleptin in the pediatric population or a subset thereof, and an anticipated clinical trial to assess metreleptin in HMD patients; regulatory activities for our products; and business development activities. We expect to incur significant royalties, sales, marketing, and outsourced manufacturing expenses, as well as research and development expenses. In addition, we expect to continue to incur additional costs associated with operating as a public company and in connection with servicing Aegerion's debt and compliance with the Settlement, our ongoing government investigations and the potential outcomes thereof, and litigation related thereto, as described in detail in the \"Legal Proceedings\" section of this Annual Report.. 79. Our ability to become profitable depends upon our ability to generate significant revenue. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing and commercializing pharmaceutical products, we are unable to predict with certainty the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if at all. We may not continue to generate substantial revenues from sales of lomitapide or metreleptin. If we are unable to continue to generate significant product revenues, we will not become profitable, and may be unable to continue operations without additional funding. Our ability to generate revenues sufficient to achieve profitability currently depends on a number of factors, including our ability to:. • continuing to sell JUXTAPID as a last-line treatment for adult HoFH patients in the U.S. despite the availability of PCSK9 inhibitor products, which have had a significant adverse impact on sales of JUXTAPID, and gaining market acceptance in the other countries, including Japan, where lomitapide is approved and being commercialized, or may in the future receive approval and be commercialized;. • minimize the expected negative impact of the availability of PCSK9 inhibitor products on sales of lomitapide outside the U.S., including in Japan, where we launched JUXTAPID in December 2016 and where a PCSK9 inhibitor product is available, and the degree to which the availability of PCSK9 inhibitor products outside the U.S., and the potential availability of named patient sales of PCSK9 inhibitor products outside the U.S., impact named patient sales of lomitapide outside the U.S., particularly in Brazil;. • effectively respond to requirements of insurance companies, managed care organizations, other private payers, and government entities that provide reimbursement for medical costs in the U.S. to require that newly diagnosed adult HoFH patients be treated with PCSK9 inhibitor products prior to JUXTAPID treatment, that current JUXTAPID patients switch to PCSK9 inhibitor products, and that potential JUXTAPID patients fail to adequately respond to PCSK9 inhibitor products before providing reimbursement for JUXTAPID at the prices at which we offer JUXTAPID;. • build and maintain market acceptance for MYALEPT in the U.S. for the treatment of complications of leptin deficiency in GL patients, and support named patient sales of metreleptin in GL in Brazil, particularly in light of local economic challenges, ongoing government investigations, an ongoing court proceeding reviewing the regulatory framework for named patient sales in Brazil,and recently implemented regulatory requirements for named patient sales which have added complexity to the process for named patient sales in Brazil and we believe have led a significant number of patients to discontinue therapy with our product, and supporting such sales in other key countries, including Turkey and France, where such sales are permitted;. • raise sufficient capital and service Aegerion's debt in a timely manner and on favorable terms to enable us to invest in the development, growth and commercialization of our products and to maintain our operations;. • maintain reimbursement policies for JUXTAPID and MYALEPT in the U.S. that do not impose significant restrictions on reimbursement and a payer mix that does not include significantly more Medicaid patients than the current payer mix;. • prepare for the launch of metreleptin in Europe as a treatment for complications of leptin deficiency in GL patients and a subset of PL, in the event we obtain regulatory, pricing and reimbursement approvals in the EU for metreleptin;. • execute on possible lifecycle management opportunities for metreleptin, including potential future clinical development of metreleptin in HMD and potential additional low-leptin mediated diseases;. • continue to have named patient sales of our products in Brazil and other key countries where such sales can occur as a result of the FDA approval, particularly in light of local economic challenges, ongoing government investigations, ongoing court proceedings in Brazil reviewing the regulatory framework for named patient sales, and negative media coverage in Brazil;. • obtain timely regulatory approval of lomitapide in Brazil as a treatment for patients with HoFH and metreleptin in the EU, Brazil and other key international markets as a treatment for patients with GL or a subset of PL, in each case without onerous restrictions, limitations, or post-marketing commitments in the resulting label, or conditions to approval;. • gain pricing and reimbursement approvals for our products in countries, including MYALEPTA in the EU for GL and the PL subset, in which we elect to seek, and eventually obtain, regulatory approval, at acceptable prices and without significant restrictions, discounts, caps or other cost containment measures, and to effectively launch our products in those countries where it makes business sense to do so;. 80. • minimize the number of patients who are eligible to receive but decide not to commence treatment with our products, or who discontinue treatment, including with lomitapide, due to tolerability issues, and with metreleptin, due to its route of administration as a daily injection, through activities such as patient support programs, to the extent permitted in a particular country; and. • effectively estimate the size of the total addressable market for our products.. In addition, as described above, federal enforcement agencies recently have shown interest in pharmaceutical companies' product and patient assistance programs, including manufacturer reimbursement support services and relationships with specialty pharmacies, and contributions to charitable organizations that assist patients in accessing treatment for certain diseases and conditions. In addition to the risks associated with the costs of responding to government investigation or enforcement actions (such as a False Claims Act action), federal enforcement agencies' increased attention to such programs and contributions may lead to changes that adversely affect our business. For example, we believe that investigations and enforcement actions by these agencies have resulted in a reduction in contributions to third-party 501(c)(3) organizations that assist patients in accessing treatment for certain diseases and conditions. If a lack of available funds prevents these third-party 501(c)(3) organizations from providing adequate financial assistance, including assistance with co-payment obligations, to individuals who would otherwise be unable to afford our products, our revenues may decline below our expectations.. The market price of our common shares has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile.. Our share price is highly volatile and is subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following:. • the short-term or long-term success or failure of our commercialization efforts and the level of revenues generated from sales of our products in the U.S.;. • the level of revenues we receive from named patient sales of our products in Brazil and other key countries where a mechanism exists to sell the product on a pre-approval basis in such country based on U.S. approval of such products or EU approval of lomitapide, particularly in light of the regulatory approval of Amgen's PCSK9 inhibitor product in Brazil in April 2016, the potential availability of that and other PCSK9 inhibitor products on a named patient sales basis in Brazil, the additional requirements that have been recently imposed on named patient sales of pharmaceutical products in Brazil, including our products, and potential future additional requirements or limitations, and the ongoing court proceedings in Brazil reviewing the regulatory framework for named patient sales;. • our cash position;. • the August 2019 maturity of and the dilutive effect of Aegerion's Convertible Notes, the warrants issued in connection with the New Loan Agreement or the availability and terms of any other debt, equity or equity-linked financings or alternative strategic arrangements;. • the perception of the terms of the Settlement, and any adverse consequences that may result from the terms of the final approved Settlement, such as additional demands, litigation or investigations;. • the extent to which the JUXTAPID REMS program may negatively affect the ability or willingness of a physician to prescribe JUXTAPID, a patient to be willing to initiate or continue on JUXTAPID therapy, or insurance companies, managed care organizations, other private payers, and government entities that provide reimbursement for medical costs to continue to provide reimbursement for JUXTAPID;. • our ability to gain regulatory approvals to market our products in countries in which the products are not currently approved and/or reimbursed or for new indications, including obtaining approval of the MAA seeking marketing approval of metreleptin in the EU as a treatment for complications of leptin deficiency in GL patients and a subset of PL;. • the short-term or long-term success or failure of the commercialization of our products in key countries outside the U.S. in which we have or obtain approval, and the level of revenues we generate;. • our ability to accurately forecast net product sales and operating expenses, and to meet such forecasts;. • our ability, or lack thereof, to manage our costs and expenses to better align with our revenues, and strengthen our capital structure, while supporting approved products in a compliant manner;. 81. • the timing and cost of seeking regulatory approvals and conducting potential future clinical development of metreleptin in HMD;. • the extent to which changes to the labeling for JUXTAPID instructing patients to cease therapy upon the occurrence of severe diarrhea may negatively affect the ability or willingness of a healthcare professional to prescribe JUXTAPID, a patient to be willing to initiate or continue on therapy, or insurance companies, managed care organizations, other private payers, and government entities that provide reimbursement for medical costs to continue to provide reimbursement for JUXTAPID;. • any issues that may arise with our supply chain for our products or in connection with our licensing arrangements;. • any adverse regulatory decisions, or regulatory issues that arise, made with respect to our products;. • any issues that may arise with respect to the safety of our products;. • the acceleration of any indebtedness or other financial obligations;. • additional changes in, or loss of, key personnel, especially in light of recent management changes;. • our ability, and the resources expended, to defend ourselves successfully against claims made in securities class action or similar lawsuits, and, if we are unsuccessful in such defense or decide to settle, the type and amount of any damages, settlement amounts, fines or other payments or adverse consequences that may result;. • any adverse actions or decisions related to our intellectual property or marketing or data exclusivity, or any action by a third party to gain approval of a generic or biosimilar product, including, for lomitapide, for which a generic challenge can be filed with the FDA in light of the expiration of exclusivity on December 21, 2017;. • fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies;. • general market conditions and overall fluctuations in U.S. and Canadian equity markets;. • low trading volume and short interest positions in our common shares;. • international financial market conditions;. • variations in our quarterly operating results;. • changes in our financial guidance or securities analysts' estimates of our financial performance;. • announcements of investigations or litigation, and updates to the status of investigations and litigation, or other notifications from enforcement or regulatory authorities related to our business or business practices;. • announcements of clinical data, regulatory submissions, product launches, new products, services or technologies, commercial relationships, acquisitions or other events by us or our competitors;. • changes in or materially incorrect application of accounting principles;. • issuance by us of new securities, or sales of large blocks of our common shares, including sales by our executive officers, directors and significant shareholders;. • success or failure of products within our therapeutic areas of focus;. • discussion of us or our share price by the financial press and in online investor communities;. • our relationships with and the conduct of third parties on which we depend; and. • other risks and uncertainties described in these risk factors.. 82. In particular, our forecasts and guidance as to our financial performance are predicated on many assumptions, most notably that we have correctly forecast our U.S. and non-U.S. revenues for both of our products, including for sales of JUXTAPID in Japan and for named patient sales of both products to the federal Ministry of Health in Brazil, and that sales continue as we have forecasted to those patients who have previously received JUXTAPID or MYALEPT and, in Brazil, to new patients who have obtained federal court orders for JUXTAPID or MYALEPT treatment, particularly in light of the ongoing investigations in Brazil and the lawsuits currently being heard by the Brazil Supreme Federal Court to decide whether the government has an obligation to provide drugs, such as JUXTAPID and MYALEPT, that have not received regulatory and/or pricing and reimbursement approval in Brazil. Such factors may cause additional delays or eventually the suspension of the ordering process in Brazil. We have also assumed that our forecasts concerning sales of metreleptin in other key markets are correct, including named patient sales in France and Turkey and, assuming we receive approval for MYALEPTA in the EU, post-approval commercial sales in Germany. If any of our assumptions turn out to be incorrect, including our assumptions with respect to our ability to build and maintain market acceptance for our products for HoFH and GL in territories in which they have been approved; are subject to approval, including GL and the PL subset in the EU, assuming regulatory approval; or are eligible for named patient sales, or the extent of the negative impact of the availability of PCSK9 inhibitor products in the U.S., the EU, Japan, and Brazil on our sales of lomitapide in those countries and in other countries where PCSK9 inhibitors are, in the future, approved or available on a named patient basis, our financial results could be weaker than expected, and the price of our common shares could decline, perhaps significantly.. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for small pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Also, broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common shares, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market in a company's stock, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against such a company. For example, Aegerion recently settled the Class Action Litigation. See the \"Legal Proceedings\" section of this Annual Report for further information.  These proceedings have, and similar litigation could, if instituted against us, result in substantial costs and diversion of management's attention and resources, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition.. Our internal controls over financial reporting could fail to prevent or detect misstatements or have material weaknesses.. Our internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Any failure to maintain effective internal controls or to timely effect any necessary improvement or remediate any lapse in our internal control and disclosure controls could, among other things, result in losses from fraud or error, require significant resources and divert management's attention, harm our reputation, causing investors to lose confidence in our reported financial and other information, and expose us to legal or regulatory proceedings, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. During 2016, a material weakness in internal control over our financial reporting process was identified as we did not design and maintain sufficiently precise or effective review and approval controls over the forecasts used to develop management estimates, including those related to balances acquired in the Aegerion business combination that occurred during fiscal year 2016. Although management, in 2017, implemented a number of remediation efforts, there has been a lack of instances to test the remediated controls in 2017; as a result, the material weakness remains un-remediated as of December 31, 2017. Management has performed additional analysis and procedures to conclude that the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report fairly present, in all material respects, our financial condition as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 and results of operations for the three years ended December 31, 2017. See \"Management's Annual Report On Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.\" Even if we remediated this material weakness effectively, we may in the future identify additional material weaknesses.. Changes in our effective income tax rate could adversely affect our results of operations.. We and our subsidiaries are subject to income and other taxes in Canada, the United States, and many other tax jurisdictions throughout the world. Tax laws and rates in these jurisdictions are subject to change. Our effective income tax rate can vary significantly between periods due to a number of complex factors, including, but not limited to: (i) interpretations of existing tax laws; (ii) the accounting for business combinations, including accounting for contingent consideration; (iii) the tax impact of existing or future legislation; (iv) changes in accounting standards; (v) changes in the mix of earnings in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate; (vi) the outcome of examinations by the Canada Revenue Agency, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") and other foreign tax authorities; (vii) adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of income tax returns; (viii) the accuracy of our estimates for unrecognized tax benefits; and (ix) increases or decreases to valuation allowances recorded against deferred tax assets. For example, in December 2017, Congress passed a comprehensive tax reform bill that includes significant changes to taxation of business entities, including a permanent reduction to the federal corporate income tax rate, a partial limitation on the. 83. deductibility of business interest expense, adopting elements of a \"territorial\" tax system, assessing a repatriation tax or \"toll-charge\" on undistributed earnings and profits of U.S.-owned foreign corporations, and introducing certain anti-base erosion provisions. The impact of this tax reform on us is uncertain; however, a reduction in the U.S. corporate income tax rate could impair the value of our deferred tax assets which are discussed below. If our effective tax rate increases, our operating results and cash flow could be adversely affected.. Any changes to existing accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices may cause adverse fluctuations in our reported results of operations or affect how we conduct our business.. A change in accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements, taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements or taxation rules have occurred in the past and may occur in the future. The change to existing rules, future changes, if any, or the need for us to modify a current tax or accounting position may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business.. We may be treated as a U.S. domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. Under current U.S. federal tax law, a corporation is generally considered for U.S. federal income tax purposes to be a tax resident in the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation. Accordingly, under the generally applicable U.S. federal income tax rules, because we are incorporated under the laws of British Columbia, Canada, we would be classified as a non-U.S. corporation (and, therefore, not a U.S. tax resident) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Section 7874 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\") provides an exception to this general rule, under which a non-U.S. incorporated entity will nevertheless be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes (and, therefore, as a U.S. tax resident subject to U.S. federal income tax on its worldwide income) if each of the following three conditions are met:  (i) the non-U.S. corporation, directly or indirectly, acquires substantially all of the properties held directly or indirectly by a U.S. corporation (including through the acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of the U.S. corporation), (ii) the non-U.S. corporation's \"expanded affiliated group\" does not have \"substantial business activities\" in the non-U.S. corporation's country of organization or incorporation and tax residence relative to the expanded affiliated group's worldwide activities and (iii) after the acquisition, the former shareholders of the acquired U.S. corporation hold at least 80% (by either vote or value) of the shares of the non-U.S. acquiring corporation by reason of holding shares in the U.S. acquired corporation (taking into account the receipt of the non-U.S. corporation's shares in exchange for the U.S. corporation's shares) as determined for purposes of Section 7874 (this test is referred to as the \"80% ownership test\").. On April 4, 2016, the U.S. Treasury Department (the \"Treasury\") and the IRS issued the Temporary Section 7874 Regulations, which, among other things, require certain adjustments that generally increase, for purposes of the 80% ownership test, the percentage of the shares of the acquiring non-U.S. corporation deemed owned (within the meaning of Section 7874) by the former shareholders of the acquired U.S. corporation by reason of holding shares in such U.S. corporation.   It is possible that Aegerion shareholders could be deemed to have acquired for purposes of Section 7874 more than 80% of Novelion in the merger (the \"Merger\") of the indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, Isotope Acquisition Corp. with and into Aegerion, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger, effective as of November 29, 2016, and that as a result we would be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If we were to be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes, we could suffer adverse tax consequences, including potential U.S. income taxes on future profits distributed from non-U.S. subsidiaries and loss of eligibility for benefits under the income tax treaty between Canada and the U.S.. If the Section 7874 percentage is calculated to be at least 60% or more (but less than 80%), Section 7874 can limit the ability of the acquired U.S. corporation and its U.S. affiliates to utilize U.S. tax attributes such as net operating losses to offset U.S. taxable income resulting from certain transactions. Additionally, related rules may impose an excise tax under Section 4985 of the Code on the gain recognized by certain \"disqualified individuals\" (including officers and directors of a U.S. company) on certain stock-based compensation held by such individuals at a rate equal to 15%. We may, if we determine that it is appropriate, provide disqualified individuals with payments to offset this excise tax, so that, on a net after-tax basis, they would be in the same position as if no such excise tax had been applied.. After taking into account the relevant adjustments under the temporary 7874 regulations and based on the facts and circumstances as of the date of the Merger, the Section 7874 percentage following the Merger was calculated to be less than 60% and, as a result, we do not believe the excise tax applies to \"disqualified individuals.\" However, if the IRS determines that the excise tax does apply, the payment of such excise tax will be costly to us.. Further, even if we are not treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes under the inversion rules, there can be no assurance as to the effective tax rates applicable to our future revenues. For example, the ability of the companies. 84. to locate personnel and to integrate and manage operations in a manner that supports and protects the tax benefits that potentially may be realized from Novelion's Canadian tax domicile is uncertain and complex.. Potential improvements to our effective tax rate that may result from Novelion's Canadian tax domicile have not been reflected in the pro forma financial information.. We may not be able to use our net operating loss carryforwards (\"NOLs\") to offset future taxable income for U.S. or Canadian federal income tax purposes.. As of December 31, 2017, we had NOLs for U.S. federal income tax purposes of approximately $60.5 million, which expire at various dates through 2037.. Under Section 382 of the Code, if a corporation subject to the Code undergoes an \"ownership change,\" generally defined as a greater than 50% change (by value) in its equity ownership over a three-year period, the corporation's ability to use its pre-change U.S. NOLs, and other pre-change tax attributes (such as research tax credits) to offset its post-change income may be limited. We underwent an \"ownership change\" within the meaning of Section 382 and 383 of the Code as a result of the Merger, and therefore an annual limit may be imposed on the amount of NOLs that may be used to offset future taxable income.  Such annual limit is generally the product of the total value of a company's outstanding equity immediately prior to an \"ownership change\" (subject to certain adjustments) and the applicable federal long-term tax exempt interest rate. Certain of our U.S. subsidiaries underwent an \"ownership change\" (as defined above) and triggered the limitation on use of NOLs in 2005, 2012, and 2016. Due to the ownership changes, we have determined that our U.S. subsidiaries, including Aegerion, will only be able to utilize a small percentage of their NOLs and tax attributes. In connection with the Merger, we have determined that Aegerion had a net unrealized built-in-loss (an \"NUBIL\"). The NUBIL was determined based on the difference between the fair market value of Aegerion's assets and their tax basis as of the ownership change date. Because of the NUBIL, certain deductions recognized during the five-year period beginning on the date of the Section 382 ownership change are subject to the same limitation as the NOL carryforwards. Our U.S. subsidiaries may also experience ownership changes in the future as a result of subsequent shifts in share ownership. As a result, if our U.S. subsidiaries earn net taxable income, their ability to use their pre-change NOL carryforwards to offset U.S. federal taxable income may be subject to limitations, which could potentially result in increased future tax liabilities. In addition, at the U.S. state level, there may be periods during which the use of NOLs is suspended or otherwise limited, which could accelerate or permanently increase state taxes owed.. As of December 31, 2017, we had NOLs for Canadian federal income tax purposes of approximately $176.9 million, which expire at various dates through 2037. The extent to which we can utilize any or all of our NOLs will depend on many factors, including the jurisdiction applicable to any future taxable revenue of Novelion.. Our ability to use NOLs will also depend on the amount of taxable income generated in future periods. The NOLs may expire before we can generate sufficient taxable income to use the NOLs.  NOLs generated after December 31, 2017 will not be subject to expiration. As described above, the reduction in the U.S. corporate income tax rate could impair the value of our deferred tax assets.. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of proxy contests and other actions of activist shareholders.. Proxy contests have been waged against many companies in the biopharmaceutical industry over the last few years. If faced with a proxy contest, we may not be able to successfully defend against the contest, which would be disruptive to our business. Even if we are successful, our business could be adversely affected by a proxy contest because:. • responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist shareholders may be costly and time-consuming and may disrupt our operations and divert the attention of our management and our employees;. • perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in our inability to consummate potential acquisitions, collaborations or in-licensing opportunities and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners; and. • if individuals are elected to our Board of Directors with a specific agenda different from our strategy for creating long-term shareholder value, it may adversely affect our ability to effectively and timely execute on our strategic plans and create additional value for our shareholders.. 85. Anti-takeover provisions in our Articles, certain provisions under the BCBCA, the Canadian take-over bid rules and our advance notice policy could prevent or delay transactions that our shareholders may favor and may prevent shareholders from changing the direction of our business or management.. Provisions of our Articles and certain provisions under the British Columbia Business Corporations Act (the \"BCBCA\") may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that our shareholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares, and may also frustrate or prevent any attempt by shareholders to change our direction or management. For example, these provisions:. • require a 66 2/3% majority of shareholder votes cast in favor of a resolution to effect various amendments to our Articles; and. • require shareholder proposals for matters to be acted upon by shareholders at shareholder meetings to be submitted pursuant to, and in accordance with, the applicable provisions of the BCBCA for inclusion in the Company's proxy materials by a date that is not later than three months prior to the anniversary date of the prior year's shareholder meeting.. Canada's take-over bid rules provide that take-over bids for Canadian issuers will be subject to a minimum 105-day deposit period, subject to certain exceptions. The take-over bid rules, together with the above-noted provisions, among others, whether alone or together, could delay or impede hostile takeovers and changes in control. Any provision of our organizational documents that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our shareholders to receive a premium for their common shares and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common shares.. We also have a shareholder-approved advance notice policy which establishes advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors. This policy may delay or impede changes to the composition of our Board of Directors or management.. Provisions of Canadian law may delay, prevent or make undesirable an acquisition of all or a significant portion of our common shares or assets.. The Investment Canada Act subjects an acquisition of control of us by a non-Canadian to government review if our enterprise value as calculated pursuant to the legislation exceeds a threshold amount. A reviewable acquisition may not proceed unless the relevant Minister is satisfied that the investment is likely to be of net benefit to Canada. This could prevent or delay a change of control and may eliminate or limit strategic opportunities for shareholders to sell their common shares.. The rights of our shareholders may differ from the rights typically offered to shareholders of a U.S. corporation, including the right to bring actions or enforce judgments against us and certain of our directors, and these differences may make our common shares less attractive to investors.. We are incorporated under the laws of the Province of British Columbia, Canada, and therefore certain of the rights of holders of its shares are governed by Canadian law, including the provisions of the BCBCA, and by our Notice of Articles and Articles. These rights differ in certain respects from the rights of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations and these differences may make our common shares less attractive to investors. For example, it may not be possible for an investor to enforce judgments obtained in U.S. courts based upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws or other laws of the U.S. against us.. Future sales or issuances of our common shares may cause our share price to decline.. Sales or issuances of a substantial number of our common shares in the public market, or a sale or issuance of securities convertible into common shares, or the perception that these sales or issuances might occur, could significantly reduce the market price of our common shares and impair our ability to raise adequate capital through the sale of additional equity or equity linked securities. If our existing shareholders sell, or if the market believes our existing shareholders will sell, substantial amounts of our common shares in the public market, the trading price of our common shares could decline significantly. If additional shares are sold or otherwise enter the market, or if it is perceived that they will be sold in or otherwise enter the public market, the price of our common shares could decline substantially. In addition to the common shares underlying Aegerion's Convertible Notes and the warrants issued in connection with the New Loan, there are also approximately 2,500,000 common shares that are subject to outstanding options to purchase common shares and restricted stock unit awards and reserved for issuance under our equity plans, and will need additional shares for equity awards in the near future. The common shares underlying such currently outstanding options and restricted stock unit awards can be, and any shares underlying equity awards that we issue, or that are reserved for. 86. issuance, in the future are expected to be able to be, registered and freely saleable in the public market upon issuance, subject to vesting restrictions."
