[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. An investment in our ordinary shares involves a high degree of risk. Investors and prospective investors should carefully consider all of the information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the risks and uncertainties described below. Any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. In any such case, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto.. Risks relating to our business, Tumor Treating Fields and our delivery systems. Our business and prospects depend heavily on Optune, which is currently approved only for treatment of GBM. If we are unable to increase sales of Optune, obtain further regulatory approvals for and further commercialize Optune or our other delivery system candidates for the treatment of additional indications or are significantly delayed or limited in doing so, our business and prospects will be materially harmed.. To date we have received FDA regulatory approvals and certain approvals in other jurisdictions for the use of Optune for treatment of adult patients with newly diagnosed GBM in combination with temozolomide (a form of chemotherapy) and for treatment of adult patients with recurrent GBM, and have affixed a CE mark to our Tumor Treating Fields delivery systems for certain indications in the EU; however, such approvals and the CE mark affixed to Optune do not guarantee future revenues for these indications. Further, until we receive FDA and analogous approval in other jurisdictions for the use of Tumor Treating Fields for other indications through our delivery system candidates, almost all of our revenues will derive from sales of Optune for the treatment of newly diagnosed and recurrent GBM. The commercial success of Optune and any other delivery systems and our ability to generate and maintain revenues from the use of these delivery systems will depend on a number of factors, including:. •  our ability to obtain additional regulatory approvals for and further commercialize Optune;. •  our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize our other Tumor Treating Fields delivery system candidates for additional indications;. •  the acceptance of Tumor Treating Fields by patients and the healthcare community, including physicians and third-party payers (both private and public), as therapeutically effective and safe;. •  the relative cost, safety and efficacy of alternative therapies;. •  our ability to obtain and maintain sufficient coverage or reimbursement by private and public third-party payers;. •  the ability of our third-party manufacturers to manufacture Optune and other delivery system candidates in sufficient quantities with acceptable quality;. •  our ability to provide marketing and distribution support for Optune and our other delivery system candidates;. •  results of future clinical studies relating to Tumor Treating Fields or our competitors' products;. •  compliance with applicable health care laws and regulations;. •  the maintenance of our existing regulatory approvals in the United States, the EU, Japan and other jurisdictions; and. •  the consequences of any reportable adverse events involving Optune or Tumor Treating Fields occurring in the United States, the EU, Switzerland, Israel, Japan or other jurisdictions.. In addition, the promotion of Optune is limited to approved indications, which vary by geography, and the FDA label for Optune is limited in certain respects (for example, it is not approved for use in the brain stem, is not approved for use as monotherapy in newly diagnosed GBM and is limited for use by adults ages 22 and older), which may reduce the number of GBM patients to whom it may be prescribed.. In addition to Optune, our ability to generate future revenues will depend on achieving regulatory approval of, and eventual commercialization of, our delivery system candidates. However, obtaining regulatory approval of our delivery system candidates is not guaranteed. Our near-term prospects are substantially dependent on our ability to obtain regulatory approvals on the timetable we have anticipated, and thereafter to further successfully commercialize these delivery system candidates. Regulatory changes or actions in which we operate or propose to operate may further affect our ability to obtain regulatory approvals on the anticipated timetable.  If we are not able to receive such approvals or to further commercialize our delivery system candidates, or are significantly delayed or limited in doing so, our business and prospects will be materially harmed and we may need to delay our initiatives or even significantly curtail operations.. 18. To date, we have incurred substantial operating losses.. We were founded in 2000, operated as a development stage company through December 31, 2011 and have incurred substantial operating losses to date. In assessing our prospects, you must consider the risks and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in new and rapidly evolving markets, particularly companies engaged in the development and sales of oncology products. These risks include our ability to:. •  continue to develop and enhance Optune and our delivery system candidates;. •  obtain regulatory approval to commercialize new delivery systems and enhance or modify our existing delivery systems;. •  increase our sales, marketing and distribution organization to commercialize our delivery systems;. •  perform clinical research and trials on Tumor Treating Fields;. •  establish and increase awareness and acceptance of our delivery systems;. •  implement and successfully execute our business and marketing strategy;. •  respond effectively to competitive pressures and developments;. •  maintain, protect and expand our intellectual property portfolio;. •  operate in compliance with applicable health care laws and regulations;. •  expand our presence in our key markets;. •  attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel; and. •  grow our organization to support our operations and our clinical pipeline and expand commercialization efforts.. We anticipate continuing to incur significant costs associated with commercializing our delivery systems for approved indications including product sales, marketing, manufacturing and distribution expenses. We expect our research, development and clinical trials expenses to increase in connection with our ongoing activities and as additional indications enter late-stage clinical development. Our expenses could increase beyond expectations if, for example, we are required by the FDA, or other regulatory agencies to change manufacturing processes for our delivery systems, or to perform clinical, nonclinical or other types of studies in addition to those that we currently anticipate. Our revenues are dependent, in part, upon the size of the markets in the jurisdictions in which we receive regulatory approval, the accepted price for our delivery systems and the ability to obtain reimbursement at such price. If the number of addressable patients is not as significant as we estimate, the indications approved by regulatory authorities is narrower than we expect or the eligible population for treatment is narrowed by competition, physician choice or treatment guidelines, we may not generate significant revenues. If we are not able to generate significant revenues, we may never become profitable.. If we do not achieve our projected research and development and commercialization goals in the timeframes we announce or expect, our business would be harmed and we may need to raise additional capital to fund our operations.. For planning purposes, we estimate the timing of the accomplishment of various scientific, clinical, regulatory and other goals, which we sometimes refer to as milestones. These milestones may include the commencement or completion of scientific studies and clinical trials, the submission of regulatory filings in the United States and other jurisdictions and the receipt of regulatory approvals in such jurisdictions. From time to time, we may publicly announce the expected timing of some of these milestones. All of these milestones are based on a variety of assumptions. The actual timing of the achievement of these milestones can vary dramatically from our estimates, in many cases for reasons beyond our control, depending on numerous factors, including:. •  the rate of progress, costs and results of our research and development activities and clinical trials;. •  our ability to identify and engage appropriate health care professionals to conduct our clinical trials;. •  our ability to identify and enroll patients who meet clinical trial eligibility criteria;. •  the extent of scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions;. •  the occurrence of unanticipated adverse events during clinical trials;. •  the receipt of approvals by our competitors of competing products and by us of our delivery system candidates;. •  our ability to achieve coverage and reimbursement milestones with private and governmental third-party payers;. •  our ability to access sufficient, reliable and cost-effective supplies of components used in the manufacture of Optune and delivery system candidates, including the transducer arrays and other materials;. 19. •  our ability to develop and maintain a sales and marketing organization and/or enter into sales and marketing collaborations for Optune and, if approved, our delivery system candidates; and. •  changes in regulations and other actions by regulators.. For example, our key milestones include clinical development milestones for the use of Tumor Treating Fields to treat brain metastases, non-small cell lung cancer, pancreatic cancer, ovarian cancer and mesothelioma. We can provide no assurance that we will achieve these milestones on our expected timetable, or at all.. If we do not achieve these milestones in the timeframes we expect and generate substantial revenues, and/or if we are unable to obtain sufficient additional funds through financings, the proceeds from long-term loans, strategic collaborations or the license or sale of certain of our assets on a timely basis when necessary, we may be required to reduce expenses by delaying, reducing or curtailing the development of our delivery systems and we may need to raise additional capital to fund our operations, which we may not be able to obtain on favorable terms, if at all. If we fail to commence or complete, or experience delays in or are forced to curtail, our proposed clinical programs or otherwise fail to adhere to our projected development milestones in the timeframes we announce or expect (or within the timeframes expected by analysts or investors), or we fail to raise any required additional capital, any of such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations and cause our stock price to decline. We will need to generate significant revenues to achieve profitability, and we may never do so.. We may not be successful in our efforts to create a pipeline of delivery system candidates for future indications for Tumor Treating Fields and successfully commercialize them, or we may expend our resources on indications that do not yield a successful approval and fail to capitalize on other indications that may be more profitable or for which there is a greater likelihood of success.. We are pursuing clinical development of Tumor Treating Fields to treat a variety of solid tumors through our delivery system candidates. For these future indications, we are at varying stages of development and we generally do not have relevant regulatory approvals to market Tumor Treating Fields in these indications. Further, we do not currently intend to pursue indications involving solid tumors of the throat or extremities, and we do not believe Tumor Treating Fields would be efficacious for non-solid tumor cancers like lymphoma or other blood cancers.. Even if we are successful in continuing to build our pipeline, obtaining regulatory approvals and commercializing our delivery system candidates for additional indications are susceptible to risks of failure, including the significant risk that the development of our delivery system candidates for any potential indications will fail to demonstrate adequate efficacy or an acceptable safety profile, to gain regulatory approval and/or to become commercially viable. We cannot provide you any assurance that we will be able to advance any of these additional indications through the development and commercialization process. Our research programs may initially show promise in addressing additional indications, yet fail to yield approvals or commercialization for many reasons, including the following:. •  we may not be able to assemble sufficient resources to pursue clinical trials for additional indications;. •  our delivery system candidates may not succeed in preclinical or clinical testing;. •  our delivery systems may, on further study be shown to have harmful side effects for other indications or other characteristics that indicate they are unlikely to be effective or otherwise do not meet applicable regulatory criteria for such indications;. •  competitors may develop alternative treatments that render our delivery systems obsolete or less attractive;. •  the market for Tumor Treating Fields may change so that the continued development of our pipeline as currently contemplated is no longer appropriate;. •  our delivery systems may not be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at an acceptable cost, or at all; and. •  our delivery systems may not meet standards set by applicable regulatory authorities to obtain approval or clearance to market such delivery systems;. •  our delivery systems may not be accepted as safe, effective, convenient or otherwise desirable by patients, the medical community or third-party payers.. If any of these events occur, we may be forced to delay or abandon our development efforts for our anticipated pipeline, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects and could potentially cause our stock price to decline and cause us to cease operations. Moreover, any such events in respect of any particular indication and/or delivery system candidate may have a negative effect on the approval process for other indications and/or result in losing approval of approved delivery systems for other indications, which may exacerbate the harm to our business and prospects.. 20. If we encounter difficulties enrolling patients in our clinical trials, our clinical trials could be delayed or otherwise adversely affected.. The timely completion of clinical trials depends, among other things, on our ability to enroll a sufficient number of patients who remain in the trial until its conclusion. We may experience difficulties in patient enrollment in our clinical trials for a variety of reasons, including:. •  the severity of the disease under investigation;. •  the limited size and nature of the patient population;. •  the patient eligibility criteria defined in our protocol and other clinical trial protocols;. •  the nature of the trial protocol, including the attractiveness of, or the discomforts and risks associated with, the treatments received by enrolled subjects;. •  clinicians' and patients' perceptions as to the potential advantages and side effects of Tumor Treating Fields in relation to other available therapies, including any new drugs or treatments that may be approved for the indications we are pursuing;. •  availability of other clinical trials;. •  the possibility or perception that enrolling in a Tumor Treating Fields clinical trial may limit the patient's ability to enroll in future clinical trials for other therapies due to protocol restrictions;. •  patient referral practices of physicians;. •  the ability to monitor patients adequately during and after treatment;. •  the availability of appropriate clinical trial investigators, support staff and proximity of patients to clinical sites;. •  physicians' or our ability to obtain and maintain patient consents; and. •  the risk that patients enrolled in clinical trials will choose to withdraw from or otherwise not be able to complete a clinical trial.. Patients may be discouraged from enrolling in our clinical trials if the trial protocol requires them to undergo extensive follow-up to assess the safety and effectiveness of Tumor Treating Fields or if they determine that the treatments received under the trial protocols are not attractive or involve unacceptable risks or discomforts. Patients may also not participate in our clinical trials if they choose to participate in contemporaneous clinical trials of competing products. In addition, the inclusion of critically ill patients in our clinical trials may result in deaths or other adverse medical events for reasons that may not be related to Tumor Treating Fields, or, in those trials where Tumor Treating Fields is being tested in combination with one or more other therapies, for reasons that may be attributable to the other therapies, but which can nevertheless negatively affect clinical trial results. If we have difficulty enrolling a sufficient number or diversity of patients to conduct our clinical trials as planned, we may need to delay or terminate ongoing or planned clinical trials, either of which would have an adverse effect on our business.. If we are unable to continue the development of an adequate sales and marketing organization or contract with third parties to assist us, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our delivery systems that are and may be approved for commercial sale.. To achieve commercial success for Optune and our delivery system candidates, we must continue to develop and grow our sales and marketing organization and, as necessary, enter into sales and distribution relationships with third parties to market and sell Optune and our delivery system candidates. Developing and managing a sales and marketing organization is a difficult, expensive and time consuming process. To be successful we must:. •  recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective and experienced sales personnel;. •  effectively train our sales personnel in the benefits and risks of Optune and our delivery system candidates;. •  establish and maintain successful sales, marketing and education programs that educate health care providers so they can appropriately inform their patients about Optune and our delivery system candidates; and. •  manage geographically disbursed sales and marketing operations.. We may not be able to successfully develop adequate sales and marketing capabilities to achieve our growth objectives. We will have to compete with other medical device, pharmaceutical and life sciences companies to recruit, hire, train and retain the sales and marketing personnel that we anticipate we will need. In addition, because Optune requires, and we anticipate our delivery system candidates will require, physician training and education, our sales and marketing organization must grow substantially as we expand our approved indications and markets. As a consequence, our expenses associated with building up and maintaining our sales force and marketing capabilities may be disproportionate to the revenues we may be able to generate on sales of Optune and our delivery system candidates.. 21. If we are unable to establish adequate sales and marketing capabilities or successful sales and distribution relationships, we may fail to realize the full revenue potential of Optune and some or all of our delivery system candidates, and we may not be able to achieve the necessary growth in a cost-effective manner or realize a positive return on our investment. If we establish sales and distribution agreements with other companies, we may not have control over the resources or degree of effort that any of these third parties may devote to our delivery systems, and if they fail to devote sufficient time and resources to the marketing of such delivery systems, or if their performance is substandard, it will adversely affect our revenues.. We may not be successful in achieving market acceptance of Tumor Treating Fields by healthcare professionals, patients and/or third-party payers in the timeframes we anticipate, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business model is predicated on achieving market acceptance of Tumor Treating Fields as a monotherapy or in combination with well-established cancer treatment modalities like surgery, radiation and pharmacological therapies. We may not achieve market acceptance of Optune and other Tumor Treating Fields delivery systems we develop in the amount of time that we have anticipated, or at all, for a number of different reasons. As a general matter, we may not achieve market acceptance of Tumor Treating Fields because of the following factors, among others:. •  it may be difficult to gain broad acceptance of Tumor Treating Fields because it is a new technology and involves a novel delivery system, and as such physicians may be reluctant to prescribe Tumor Treating Fields delivery systems without prior experience or additional data or training;. •  physicians may be reluctant to prescribe Tumor Treating Fields delivery systems due to their perception that a clinical trial is not appropriately designed;. •  it may be difficult to gain broad acceptance at community hospitals where the number of patients seeking cancer treatment may be more limited than at larger medical centers, and such community hospitals may not be willing to invest in the resources necessary for their physicians to become trained to use Tumor Treating Fields, which could lead to reluctance to prescribe our Tumor Treating Fields delivery systems;. •  patients may be reluctant to elect to use our Tumor Treating Fields delivery systems, including Optune, for various reasons, including a perception that the treatment is untested or difficult to use;. •  the delivery systems may have some side effects (for example, dermatitis where the transducer arrays are placed) and the delivery system cannot be worn in all circumstances (for example, it cannot get wet and is difficult to wear in high temperatures); and. •  the price of the Tumor Treating Fields delivery systems includes a monthly fee for use of the delivery system, so as the duration of the treatment course increases, the price will increase correspondingly, and, when used in combination with other treatments, the overall cost of treatment will be greater than using a single type of treatment.. In particular, Optune may not achieve market acceptance because of the following additional factors (which also may apply to our future delivery systems, to varying degrees):. •  achieving patient acceptance is difficult because GBM is a devastating disease with a poor prognosis, and not all patients with potentially short lifespans are willing to comply with requirements of treatment with Optune, such as extended use of Optune, carrying around a device and shaving their heads (which may be of particular concern to women), and other patients may forego Optune treatment for privacy, cosmetic visibility or mobility reasons;. •  achieving patient compliance is difficult because the recommended average daily use of Optune is at least 18 hours a day, requiring patients to wear the delivery system nearly continuously, which to some extent restricts physical mobility because the battery must be frequently recharged, and the patient or a caregiver must ensure that it remains continuously operable;. •  certain patients are not advised to use Optune, including patients who have an active electronic medical device, which include deep brain stimulators, spinal cord stimulators, vagus nerve stimulators, pacemakers, defibrillators and programmable shunts, because the use of Optune with these devices has not been tested and may lead to malfunctioning of these devices; patients who have a skull defect or bullet fragments are also not advised to use Optune because the use of Optune with these conditions has not been tested and may lead to tissue damage or render Optune ineffective; and patients who are sensitive to conductive hydrogels because skin contact with the gel used in Optune for patients that are sensitive to conductive hydrogels may commonly cause increased redness and itching, and in rare instances may lead to severe allergic reactions, such as shock or respiratory failure;. 22. •  the need to wear Optune nearly continuously in order to achieve efficacy of Tumor Treating Fields may also impact the pool of patients to whom physicians may be willing to prescribe treatment, as physicians may be reluctant to prescribe Optune for patients who are physically frail or lack caregiver support. Efficacy may also be limited in instances where patients take a break from the delivery system when experiencing skin rashes, while bathing or swimming because Optune cannot get wet, or while traveling; and. •  adverse events reported in clinical trials by GBM patients treated with Optune as monotherapy include medical device site reaction, headache, malaise, muscle twitching, fall and skin ulcer; additional adverse events reported in clinical trials by GBM patients treated with Optune in combination with temozolomide in addition to the above, were thrombocytopenia, nausea, constipation, vomiting, and fatigue.. In addition, even if we are successful in achieving market acceptance of Optune for GBM, we may be unsuccessful in achieving market acceptance of Tumor Treating Fields as a treatment for other solid tumor cancers, such as brain metastases, NSCLC, pancreatic cancer, ovarian cancer, mesothelioma and other solid tumor cancers, because certain radiation, chemotherapies and/or systemic medical therapies may become or remain the preferred standard of care for these indications.. There may be other factors that are presently unknown to us that also may negatively impact our ability to achieve market acceptance of Tumor Treating Fields delivery systems. If we do not achieve market acceptance of our delivery systems in the timeframes we anticipate, or are unable to achieve market acceptance at all, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected, and our stock price could decline.. Failure to secure and maintain adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers could adversely affect acceptance of our delivery systems and reduce our revenues.. We expect that the vast majority of our revenues will come from third-party payers either directly to us in markets where we provide Optune or plan to provide our delivery system candidates to patients or indirectly via payments made to hospitals or other entities providing Optune or which may in the future provide our delivery system candidates to patients.. In the United States, private payers cover the largest segment of the population, with the remainder either uninsured or covered by governmental payers.  We anticipate that the majority of the third-party payers outside the United States will be government agencies, government sponsored entities or other payers operating under significant regulatory requirements from national or regional governments.. Third-party payers may decline to reimburse for procedures, supplies or services not under coverage policies.  Additionally, some third-party payers may decline to reimburse us for a particular patient even with the existence of a coverage policy. Additionally, private commercial and government payers may be permitted to consider the cost of a treatment in approving coverage or in setting payment for the treatment.. Private and government payers around the world are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Additionally, the containment of healthcare costs has become a priority of governments around the world. Adoption of additional price controls and cost-containment measures, and adoption of more restrictive policies in jurisdictions with existing controls and measures, could further limit our revenues and operating results. If third-party payers do not consider our delivery system or the combination of our delivery system with additional treatments to be cost-justified under a required cost-testing model, they may not cover our delivery systems for their populations or, if they do, the level of payment may not be sufficient to allow us to sell our delivery systems on a profitable basis.. Reimbursement for the treatment of patients with medical devices around the world is governed by complex mechanisms established on a national level in each country. These mechanisms vary widely among countries and evolve constantly, reflecting the efforts of these countries to reduce public spending on healthcare. As a result, obtaining and maintaining reimbursement for the treatment of patients with medical devices has become more challenging globally. We cannot, therefore, guarantee that the treatment of patients with Optune or any of our future delivery systems would receive reimbursement approvals and cannot guarantee that our existing reimbursement approvals will be maintained in any country.. We provide financial assistance to patients in certain markets, primarily those where we have or are actively pursuing reimbursement coverage, to defray patients' out-of-pocket costs for Optune, and therefore, absorb any unreimbursed costs of patients who begin treatment and are unable to pay for the costs of their treatment not covered by insurance. Our costs associated with this program could increase if payers increase the cost-sharing burden of patients or we do not obtain national reimbursement coverage and we elect to continue providing financial assistance in those markets.. 23. Our failure to secure or maintain adequate coverage or reimbursement for Optune or any of our future delivery systems by third-party payers in the United States or in the other jurisdictions in which we market Optune or any of our future delivery systems, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cause our stock price to decline.. We may not be successful securing and maintaining reimbursement codes necessary to facilitate accurate and timely billing for Optune, future delivery systems and physician services attendant to Tumor Treating Fields therapy.. Third-party payers, healthcare systems, government agencies or other groups often issue reimbursement codes to facilitate billing for products and physician services used in the delivery of medicine. Within the United States, the billing codes most directly related to Optune and future delivery systems are contained in the Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System (\"HCPCS code set\"). The HCPCS code set contains Level I codes that describe physician services, also known as Common Procedural Terminology codes (\"CPT codes\") and Level II codes that primarily describe products. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (\"CMS\") is responsible for issuing the HCPCS Level II codes. The American Medical Association issues HCPCS Level I codes.. We have secured unique HCPCS Level II codes that describe Optune and we are able to use these codes in the United States to bill third-party payers. Loss of these codes or any alteration in the payment attached to these codes would materially impact our operating results.. Although we are attempting to secure CPT codes, no CPT codes currently exist to describe physician services related to the delivery of Tumor Treating Fields therapy. We may not be able to secure CPT codes for physician services related to Optune based on the relatively low incidence of GBM. Our future revenues and results may be affected by the absence of CPT codes, as physicians may be less likely to adopt the therapy when not adequately reimbursed for the time, effort, skill, practice expense and malpractice costs required to provide the therapy to patients.. We have not secured codes to describe our delivery systems or to document physician services related to the delivery of Tumor Treating Fields therapy in markets outside the United States. Absence of these codes may affect the future growth of our business.. There is no assurance that Medicare or the Medicare Administrative Contractors will provide coverage or adequate payment rates for Optune or our future delivery systems.. In 2017, approximately 20-25% of patients using Optune in the United States were beneficiaries under the Medicare fee-for-service program.  Failure to secure coverage and adequate payment from Medicare would reduce our revenues and may also affect the coverage and payment decisions of other third-party payers in the United States.. Medicare has the authority to issue national coverage determinations or to defer coverage decisions to its regional Medicare Administrative Contractors (\"MACs\"). Medicare has not issued a national coverage determination for Optune. The two MACs that currently administer the durable medical equipment benefit for MACs have each issued local coverage determination policies stating that Optune is not reasonable and necessary for the treatment of recurrent GBM. The fact that only two MACs administer the entire DME program may negatively affect our ability to petition individual medical policy decision-makers at the MACs for coverage. The continuing absence of a positive coverage determination from Medicare or the DME MACs would materially affect our future revenues.. Additionally, Medicare has the authority to publish the price of durable medical equipment products. Medicare may publish prices for Optune or future delivery systems that do not reflect then current prices for Optune or future delivery systems. Medicare price schedules are frequently referenced by private payers in the United States and around the world. Medicare would materially reduce our revenues and operating results by publishing a price for Optune or future delivery systems that is not based on the actual price of Optune or future delivery systems within the private payer market.. CMS implemented a demonstration project in 2012 to require prior authorization for certain Durable Medical Equipment, Prosthetics, Orthotics and Supplies items. Claims for services that did not receive prior authorization before they were rendered will be automatically denied. In the event Medicare provides coverage for Optune in the future and Optune is added to the list of items requiring prior authorization that may reduce our ability to bill and secure payment for patients who would otherwise be covered to use Optune under the Medicare fee-for-service program.. The Medicare fee-for-service program has denied coverage for our claims to date.  Although we are actively appealing these coverage denials, we are unable to bill our existing Medicare fee-for-service patients for amounts not paid by Medicare. Therefore, we are absorbing and may continue to absorb the costs of treatment for amounts not paid by Medicare.. 24. We appeal Medicare coverage denials through the Medicare appeals process: redetermination by a MAC, reconsideration by a Qualified Independent Contractor, hearing before an Administrative Law Judge, or ALJ, at the Office of Medicare Hearings and Appeals, review by the Medicare Appeals Council, and judicial review in U.S. District Court. Currently, there is a considerable backlog of appeals at the ALJ level and there are significant delays in the assignment of ALJ cases. Thus, we anticipate that, even if we are successful in winning our appeals, we will experience a significant delay in securing payment for Medicare patients when Medicare's DME MACs deny coverage for patients who start therapy.. We depend on single-source suppliers for some of our components. The loss of these suppliers could prevent or delay shipments of Optune, delay our clinical trials or otherwise adversely affect our business.. We source some of the key components of Optune from only a single vendor. If any one of these single-source suppliers were to fail to continue to provide components to us on a timely basis, or at all, our business and reputation could be harmed. For example, we currently obtain the ceramic discs used in the transducer arrays for Optune from a single supplier.  We have technically qualified and entered into a supply agreement with an additional supplier, and we have requested regulatory approval to use these ceramic discs in the EU.  This source will be able to ship product for use within the United States and Japan at a future date pending regulatory approval, which we may never receive.. Establishing additional or replacement suppliers for any components of our delivery systems, and obtaining any additional regulatory approvals required to add or replace suppliers, will take a substantial amount of time and could result in increased costs and impair our ability to produce Optune, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We may have difficulty obtaining similar components from other suppliers that are acceptable to the FDA or other regulatory authorities, or to comply with the Essential Requirements laid down in Annex I to the Directive 93/42/EEC concerning medical devices, commonly known as the Medical Devices Directive, which are the minimum requirements governing design and manufacturing in the EU. The risks associated with the failure of our suppliers to comply with strictly enforced regulatory requirements as described below are exacerbated by our dependence on single-source suppliers. Furthermore, since some of these suppliers are located outside of the United States, we are subject to export laws in other jurisdictions and United States import and customs regulations, which complicate and could delay shipments of components to us.  Changes in U.S. social, political, regulatory and economic conditions or in laws and policies governing foreign trade, manufacturing, development and investment in the territories and countries where we may develop and sell products, and any negative sentiments towards the United States as a result of such changes, could adversely affect our business.. Our policy is to seek second-source suppliers, but we can provide no assurance we will secure or maintain such suppliers. Various steps must be taken before securing these suppliers, including qualifying these suppliers in accordance with regulatory requirements.. If we experience any delay or deficiency in the quality of components supplied to us by third-party suppliers, or if we have to switch to replacement suppliers, we may face additional regulatory delays and the manufacture and delivery of Optune would be interrupted for an extended period of time, which could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may be required to obtain prior regulatory approval if we use different suppliers or components. Such changes could affect our FDA regulatory approvals and the compliance of our delivery systems with the Essential Requirements laid down in Annex I to the Medical Devices Directive and the validity of our current CE Certificates of Conformity. If we are required to obtain prior regulatory approval from the FDA or regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions or to conduct a new conformity assessment procedure and obtain new CE Certificates of Conformity in the EU to use different suppliers or components for our delivery systems, regulatory approval or the CE Certificates of Conformity for our delivery systems may not be received on a timely basis, or at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. Quality control problems with respect to delivery systems and components supplied by third-party vendors could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, our clinical trials or the commercialization of Optune and our future delivery systems and, as a result, a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. Our delivery systems, which are manufactured by third parties, are highly technical and are required to meet exacting specifications. Any quality control problems that we experience with respect to the delivery systems and components supplied by third-party vendors could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, our attempts to complete our clinical trials or the commercialization of Optune and our future delivery systems. The failure of our suppliers to comply with strictly enforced regulatory requirements could expose us to regulatory action, including warning letters, product recalls, suspension or termination of distribution, product seizures or civil penalties. If we experience any delay  or deficiency in the quality of products supplied to us by third-party suppliers, or if we have to switch to replacement suppliers, we may face additional regulatory delays and the manufacture and delivery of our delivery systems would be interrupted for an extended period of time, which would materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. 25. If the third parties on which we rely to conduct our clinical trials and to assist us with preclinical research and development do not perform as contractually required or expected, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals for our future delivery systems or commercialize our future delivery systems.. We do not have the ability to independently conduct some of our preclinical and all of clinical trials for our delivery systems and we must rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories, to conduct such trials. We and these third parties are required to comply with current good clinical practices (\"cGCPs\") which are regulations and guidelines enforced by the FDA and comparable regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions for clinical development. We and these third parties are also required to comply with current good laboratory practices (\"cGLPs\") which are regulations and guidelines enforced by the FDA and comparable regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions for nonclinical laboratory studies. Regulatory authorities enforce these cGLPs and cGCPs through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, laboratories, principal investigators and trial sites. If we or any of these third parties fail to comply with applicable cGLP and cGCP regulations, the clinical data generated in our nonclinical studies and clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA or regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions may require us to perform additional nonclinical or clinical trials before approving our approved applications. We cannot be certain that, upon inspection or review of our files, such regulatory authorities will determine that any of our nonclinical studies or clinical trials comply with the applicable cGLP or cGCP regulations.. Any third parties conducting our nonclinical studies and clinical trials are not and will not be our employees and, except for remedies available to us under our agreements with such third parties, we cannot control whether or not they devote sufficient time and resources to our ongoing preclinical, clinical and nonclinical programs. These third parties may also have relationships with other commercial entities, including our competitors, for whom they may also be conducting nonclinical studies, clinical studies or other cancer treatment development activities, which could affect their performance on our behalf. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, if these third parties need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our preclinical development activities or clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for our delivery systems or successfully commercialize our delivery systems on a timely basis, if at all, and our business, prospects and results of operations may be adversely affected.. Continued testing of Optune or our other delivery system candidates may not yield successful results and could reveal currently unknown safety hazards associated with Tumor Treating Fields.. Our research and development programs are designed to test the safety and efficacy of Tumor Treating Fields through extensive preclinical and clinical testing. Even if our ongoing and future clinical trials are completed as planned, we cannot be certain that their results will support our claims or that the FDA and other regulatory authorities will agree with our conclusions regarding them. Success in preclinical studies and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and we cannot be sure that the later trials will replicate the results of prior trials and preclinical studies. The clinical trial process may fail to demonstrate that our delivery system candidates are safe and effective for the proposed indicated uses, which could cause us to abandon a delivery system candidate and may delay development of others. It is also possible that patients enrolled in clinical trials will experience adverse side effects that have not been previously observed. In addition, our preclinical studies and clinical trials for our delivery system candidates involve a relatively small patient population, and as a result, these studies and trials may not be indicative of future results.. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the testing process that could delay or prevent further commercialization of Optune and any of our delivery system candidates, including the following:. •  safety and efficacy results for Optune and any of our delivery system candidates obtained in our preclinical and clinical testing may be inconclusive or may not be predictive of results obtained in future clinical trials, following long-term use or in much larger populations;. •  unanticipated adverse events may occur during our clinical trials;. •  the data collected from clinical trials of our delivery system candidates may not reach statistical significance due to limited sample size or otherwise not be sufficient to support FDA or other regulatory approval; and. •  our delivery system candidates may not produce the desired effects or may result in adverse health effects or other characteristics that are not currently known that preclude additional regulatory approval or limit their commercial use if approved.. To date, patients treated with Optune in our clinical trials have experienced treatment-related side effects, including dermatitis (including mild to moderate skin irritation) where the transducer arrays are placed, headaches, weakness, falls, fatigue, muscle twitching and skin ulcers. There may be additional side effects observed in future clinical trials and/or through real-world experience. 26. with patients using Optune or our other Tumor Treating Fields delivery system candidates. Undesirable side effects caused by our delivery systems could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or terminate clinical trials and could result in a more restrictive label or the delay or denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities. Results of our clinical trials could reveal a high and unacceptable severity and prevalence of side effects.. If unacceptable side effects arise in the development of our delivery system candidates, we could suspend or terminate our clinical trials or the FDA or other regulatory authorities could order us to cease clinical trials or deny approval of our delivery system candidates for any or all targeted indications, narrow the approved indications for use or otherwise require restrictive product labeling or marketing, or require further clinical trials, which may be time-consuming and expensive and may not produce results supporting FDA or other regulatory approval of our delivery system candidates in a specific indication. Treatment-related side effects could also affect patient recruitment or the ability of enrolled patients to complete the trial or result in potential product liability claims. In addition, these side effects may not be appropriately recognized or managed by the treating medical staff. We expect to have to train medical personnel using our delivery system candidates to understand the side effect profiles for our clinical trials and upon any commercialization of any of our delivery system candidates. Inadequate training in recognizing or managing the potential side effects of our delivery system candidates could result in patient injury or death. Any of these occurrences may harm our business, prospects and financial condition significantly.. Any delay or termination of our clinical trials will delay the filing of our delivery systems submissions for regulatory approvals and ultimately our ability to commercialize our delivery systems and generate revenues. Furthermore, we may abandon delivery system candidates that we previously believed to be promising. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations and cause our stock price to decline.. We face competition from numerous competitors, most of whom have far greater resources than we have, which may make it more difficult for us to achieve significant market penetration and which may allow them to develop additional oncology treatments to compete with Tumor Treating Fields.. The oncology market is intensely competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. As a monotherapy, Tumor Treating Fields primarily competes with radiation and pharmacological therapies. We may face additional competition as advancements are made in the field of anti-cancer therapies. To date, we have conducted clinical trials where Tumor Treating Fields is used in combination with a certain subset of other anti-cancer therapies. Many of our competitors are large, well-capitalized companies with significantly more market share and resources than we have. As a consequence, they are able to spend more aggressively on product development, marketing, sales and other initiatives than we can. Many of these competitors have:. •  significantly greater name recognition and experience;. •  established relations with healthcare professionals, patients and third-party payers;. •  established distribution networks;. •  additional product lines, and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer higher discounts or more competitive pricing or other incentives to gain a competitive advantage; and/or. •  greater financial and human resources for research and development, sales and marketing, patent litigation and/or acquisitions.. Although we believe Tumor Treating Fields represents a treatment modality that can be used in combination with other cancer treatment modalities, our current competitors or other companies may at any time develop additional drugs and devices for the treatment of GBM and other solid tumors that could be more effective than using our Tumor Treating Fields delivery systems. If an existing or future competitor develops a product that proves to be superior or comparable to Optune or any of our future delivery systems, our revenues may decline. In addition, some of our competitors may compete by changing the price of their cancer treatments. If these competitors' products were to gain acceptance by healthcare professionals, patients or third-party payers, a downward pressure on prices could result. If prices were to fall, we may not be able to improve our gross margins or sales growth sufficiently to achieve profitability.. As we expand, we may experience difficulties managing our growth.. Our anticipated growth will place a significant strain on our management and on our operational and financial resources and systems. Failure to manage our growth effectively could materially adversely affect us. Additionally, our anticipated growth will increase the demands placed on our suppliers, resulting in an increased need for us to carefully monitor the available supply of components and quality assurance. Any failure by us to manage our growth effectively could have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our development and commercialization goals.. 27. Because of the specialized nature of our business, the termination of relationships with our key employees, consultants and advisors may prevent us from developing Tumor Treating Fields, conducting clinical trials and obtaining any necessary financing. Further, the inability to recruit and retain additional personnel may have an adverse effect on our ability to successfully operate our business.. We are highly dependent on members of our executive team, the loss of whose services may adversely impact the achievement of our objectives. While we have entered into employment agreements with each of our executive officers, any of them could leave our employment at any time. We do not have \"key person\" insurance on any of our employees. The loss of the services of one or more of our current employees might impede the achievement of our business objectives. The competition for qualified personnel in the oncology field is intense, and we rely heavily on our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel. Our future success depends upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees. In order to commercialize Tumor Treating Fields successfully, we will be required to expand our workforce, particularly in the areas of research and development and clinical trials, sales and marketing and supply chain management. These activities will require the addition of new personnel and the development of additional expertise by existing management personnel. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as academic and other research institutions. We may not be able to attract and retain these individuals on acceptable terms or at all. Failure to do so would materially harm our business.. Changes in tax or other laws, regulations or treaties, changes in our status under U.S. or non-U.S. laws or adverse determinations by taxing or other governmental authorities could increase our tax burden or otherwise affect our financial condition or results of operations, as well as subject our shareholders to additional taxes.. The amount of taxes we pay is subject to a variety of tax laws in the various jurisdictions in which we and our subsidiaries are organized and operate. Our domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent on the location of earnings among these various jurisdictions. Such tax liabilities could be affected by changes in tax or other laws, treaties and regulations as well as the interpretation or enforcement thereof by tax or other governmental entities in any relevant jurisdiction. The amount we pay in tax to any particular jurisdiction depends, in part, on the correct interpretation of the tax laws in such jurisdiction, and we have made a number of determinations as to the effect of such tax laws in our particular circumstances. In some cases, the determinations we have made as to the effect of the tax laws in a particular jurisdiction depend on the continuing effectiveness of administrative rulings we have received from the tax authorities in that jurisdiction, while in other cases, our determinations are based on the reasoned judgment of our tax advisors. Although we believe that we are in compliance with the administrative rulings we have received, that the assumptions made by our tax advisors in rendering their advice remain correct, and that as a result we are in compliance with applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions where we and our subsidiaries are organized and operate, a taxing authority in any such jurisdiction may challenge our interpretation of those laws and assess us or any of our subsidiaries with additional taxes.. Additionally, from time to time, proposals can be made and legislation can be introduced to change the tax laws, regulations or interpretations thereof (possibly with retroactive effect) of various jurisdictions or limit tax treaty benefits that, if enacted, could materially increase our tax burden, increase our effective tax rate or otherwise have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. It is possible that these changes could adversely affect our business. While we monitor proposals and other developments that would materially impact our tax burden and effective tax rate and investigate our options accordingly, we could still be subject to increased taxation on a going forward and retroactive basis no matter what action we undertake if certain legislative proposals or regulatory changes are enacted, certain tax treaties are amended and/or our interpretation of applicable tax or other laws is challenged and determined to be incorrect. Any alternative interpretations of applicable tax laws asserted by a tax authority or changes in tax laws, regulations or accounting principles that limit our ability to take advantage of tax treaties between jurisdictions, modify or eliminate the deductibility of various currently deductible payments, increase the tax burden of operating or being resident in a particular country, result in transfer pricing adjustments or otherwise require the payment of additional taxes, may have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. The termination or revision of any of our tax rulings or indirect tax exemptions that we have or may have in the future may have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.. We believe our ordinary shares should not be treated as stock of a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes in the current taxable year or in a future taxable year, but this conclusion is a factual determination that is made annually and thus may be subject to change. If we were to be treated as a PFIC, this could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. persons that hold our ordinary shares.. Based on the composition of our assets and the nature of our income, we believe that our shares should not be treated as stock of a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, but this conclusion is a factual determination that is made annually and thus may be subject to change.. 28. A non-U.S. corporation will be treated as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes in any taxable year in which a specified percentage of its gross income is \"passive income\" or a specified percentage of its assets produce or are held for the production of passive income (\"passive assets\"), including cash. If we are treated as a PFIC, and a U.S. person that holds our ordinary shares, either directly or indirectly, did not make one of the applicable available elections, such U.S. person would be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences on distributions with respect to the ordinary shares to the extent the distributions are \"excess distributions,\" which are generally distributions in excess of a normal rate of distribution as calculated for PFIC purposes. Gain realized on the sale or other disposition of the ordinary shares would generally not be treated as capital gain, but rather would be treated as if such U.S. person had realized such gain and certain \"excess distributions\" ratably over the holding period for the ordinary shares and would be taxed at the highest tax rate in effect for each such year to which the gain was allocated, together with an interest charge in respect of the tax attributable to each such year. Partial redemptions would also be treated as excess distributions. We will, upon request from any shareholder, prepare and provide information as necessary for \"qualified electing fund\" elections but we make no representation as to the availability of \"mark to market\" elections that may mitigate the consequences of our being a PFIC to any U.S. investor. Prospective U.S. investors should consult their own U.S. tax advisors regarding the potential application of the PFIC rules.. Product liability suits, whether or not meritorious, could be brought against us due to alleged defective delivery systems or for the misuse of our delivery systems. These suits could result in expensive and time-consuming litigation, payment of substantial damages and an increase in our insurance rates.. If our current or future delivery systems are defectively designed or manufactured, contain defective components or are misused, or if someone claims any of the foregoing, whether or not meritorious, we may become subject to substantial and costly litigation. For example, we may be sued if our delivery systems cause or are perceived to cause injury or are found to be otherwise unsuitable during clinical testing, manufacturing, marketing or sale. This may occur if Optune is misused or damaged, has a sudden failure or malfunction (including with respect to safety features) or is otherwise impaired due to wear and tear. Even absent a product liability suit, malfunctions of the device or misuse by the physician or patient would need to be remedied swiftly in order to maintain continuous use and ensure efficacy of Tumor Treating Fields.. Any product liability claims may include allegations of defects in manufacturing, defects in design, a failure to warn of dangers inherent in the delivery system, negligence, strict liability or a breach of warranties. Claims could also be asserted under state consumer protection acts. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of Optune and our delivery system candidates. Even successful defense may require significant financial and management resources. Regardless of the merits or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in:. •  decreased demand for our Tumor Treating Fields delivery systems;. •  injury to our reputation;. •  withdrawal of clinical trial participants and inability to continue clinical trials;. •  initiation of investigations by regulators;. •  costs to defend the related litigation;. •  a diversion of management's time and our resources;. •  substantial monetary awards to trial participants or patients;. •  product recalls, withdrawals or labeling, marketing or promotional restrictions;. •  loss of revenues;. •  exhaustion of any available insurance and our capital resources;. •  the inability to commercialize any delivery system candidate; and. •  a decline in our share price.. Product liability claims could divert management's attention from our core business, be expensive to defend and result in sizable damage awards against us. We may not have sufficient insurance coverage for all claims. Any product liability claims brought against us, with or without merit, could increase our product liability insurance rates or prevent us from securing continuing coverage, could harm our reputation in the industry and could reduce revenues. Product liability claims in excess of our insurance coverage would be paid out of cash reserves, if any, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations and cause our stock price to decline. Even if our agreements with our manufacturers and suppliers entitle us to indemnification against losses, such indemnification may not be available or adequate should any claim arise.. 29. Other future litigation and regulatory actions could have a material adverse impact on the Company.. From time to time, we may be subject to litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings relating to our business or investigations or other actions by governmental agencies, including as described in Part I, Item 3 \"Legal Proceedings\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. No assurances can be given that the results of these or new matters will be favorable to us. An adverse resolution of lawsuits, arbitrations, investigations or other proceedings or actions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, including as a result of non-monetary remedies. Defending ourselves in these matters may be time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business operations and may result in significant expense and a diversion of management's time and attention from the operation of our business, which could impede our ability to achieve our business objectives. Additionally, any amount that we may be required to pay to satisfy a judgment, settlement, fine or penalty may not be covered by insurance. Subject to the Jersey Companies Law, our articles of association permit us to indemnify any director against any liability, to purchase and maintain insurance against any liability for any director and to provide any director with funds (whether by loan or otherwise) to meet expenditures incurred or to be incurred by such director in defending any criminal, regulatory or civil proceedings or in connection with an application for relief (or to enable any such director to avoid incurring such expenditure). In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with each of our directors, and we anticipate entering into indemnification agreements with each of our officers, to indemnify them against certain liabilities and expenses arising from their being a director to the maximum extent permitted by Jersey law.  In the event we are required to make such payments to our directors, there can be no assurance that any of these payments will not be material.. Global economic, political and industry conditions constantly change and unfavorable conditions, particularly in Israel, may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We are a global oncology treatment company with worldwide operations. Volatile economic, political and market conditions, such as political or economic instability, majority hostilities or acts of terrorism, in the regions in which we operate may have a negative impact on our operating results and our ability to achieve our business objectives.  We may not have insight into economic and political trends that could emerge and negatively affect our business.  In addition, significant or volatile changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies may have a material adverse impact upon our liquidity, revenues, costs and operating results.. In particular, we have research facilities located in Israel, and one of our key suppliers manufactures its goods in one physical location in Israel. Due to the high-conflict nature of this area, Israel could be subject to additional political, economic and military confines, which could result in a material adverse effect on our operations. Parties with whom we do business have sometimes declined to travel to Israel during periods of heightened unrest or tension, forcing us to make alternative arrangements when necessary. In addition, the political and security situation in Israel may result in parties with whom we have agreements involving performance in Israel claiming that they are not obligated to perform their commitments under those agreements pursuant to force majeure provisions in the agreements.. The vote by the United Kingdom electorate in favor of the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The passage of the referendum on the United Kingdom's membership in the EU, referred to as \"Brexit,\" in favor of the exit of the United Kingdom from the EU, could cause disruption to and create uncertainty surrounding our business, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial results and operations. A process of negotiation is now taking place to determine the future terms of the United Kingdom's relationship with the EU, including trade terms between the United Kingdom and countries comprising the EU. The effects of Brexit will depend on any agreements the United Kingdom makes to retain access to markets in the EU, either during a transitional period or more permanently.. Depending on the outcome of these negotiations, we could face new challenges in our operations, such as instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets, including volatility in the value of the British pound and European euro, and increased trade barriers, all of which could result in restrictions on the movement of capital within our organization, the mobility of our personnel and the potential future commercialization of Optune or our delivery system candidates and could change our tax benefits or liabilities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. 30. We are increasingly dependent on information technology systems and subject to privacy and security laws, and our systems and infrastructure face certain risks, including from cyber security breaches and data leakage.. We increasingly rely upon technology systems and infrastructure. Our technology systems are potentially vulnerable to breakdown or other interruption by fire, power loss, system malfunction, unauthorized access and other events. Likewise, data privacy breaches by employees and others with both permitted and unauthorized access to our systems may pose a risk that sensitive data (including protected health information (\"PHI\")) may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public, or may be permanently lost. The increasing use and evolution of technology, including cloud-based computing, creates additional opportunities for the unintentional dissemination of information, intentional destruction of confidential information stored in our systems or in non-encrypted portable media or storage devices. We could also experience a business interruption, information theft of confidential information, or reputational damage from industrial espionage attacks, malware or other cyber incidents, which may compromise our system infrastructure or lead to data leakage, either internally or at our third-party service providers or other business partners. Additionally, we must comply with numerous laws and regulations governing the collection, dissemination, access, use, security and PHI, including, in the U.S., HIPAA and its implementing privacy and security regulations and applicable state laws, and currently in the EU, Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of October 24, 1995 and applicable national laws. The Data Protection Directive will be replaced in May 2018 by the EU's General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\") which is designed to harmonize data privacy laws for both patient and employee data across Europe. While we have invested heavily in the protection of data and information technology and in related training, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent significant breakdowns, breaches in our systems or other cyber incidents or ensure compliance with all applicable security and privacy laws, regulations and standards, including with respect to third-party service providers that utilize sensitive personal information, including PHI, on our behalf. Any such breakdown, breach, incident or failure to comply could have a material adverse effect upon our reputation, business, operations or financial condition. In addition, significant implementation issues may arise as we continue to consolidate and outsource certain computer operations and application support activities.. Changes in our technology could result in impairment charges in future periods.. United States generally accepted accounting principles (\"GAAP\") require annual (or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances warrant) impairment tests of goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets.  Generally speaking, if the carrying value of the asset is in excess of the estimated fair value of the asset, the carrying value will be adjusted to fair value through an impairment charge.  Circumstances such as changes in technology or in the way an asset is being used may trigger an impairment review.  Any negative perception of such a deficit could have an adverse effect on the price of our ordinary shares and could impair our ability to obtain new financing or refinance existing indebtedness.. If any of our facilities are damaged or our clinical, research and development or other business processes interrupted, our business could be seriously harmed.. We conduct our business in a limited number of facilities in the United States, Germany, Switzerland, Israel and Japan. Damage or extended periods of interruption to our or our suppliers' or manufacturers' corporate, development or research facilities due to fire, natural disaster, power loss, communications failure, unauthorized entry, terrorist attacks or other events could cause us to cease or delay development and/or delivery of some or all of our delivery systems. Our internal computer systems may fail or suffer security breaches, which could result in a material disruption of our business. Our business may be seriously harmed by such delays and interruption.. Our research facilities are located in Israel, and one of our key suppliers manufactures its goods in one physical location in Israel. Due to the high-conflict nature of this area, one of our key suppliers manufactures its goods in one physical location in Israel. Although our facilities have not sustained any damage from such attacks, this is a high conflict area and any future attacks and resulting damage could adversely affect our operations.  In addition, our business insurance only covers certain specified events associated with war or terrorism in the Middle East, and may not cover all such events. Although the Israeli government currently covers the reinstatement value of direct damages that are caused by terrorist attacks or acts of war, this government coverage may not be maintained, or may be insufficient to cover all losses we incur, even if available. Any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We have significant debt service obligations and may incur additional indebtedness in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and our ability to react to changes in our business.. We currently have $150.0 million of principal indebtedness outstanding under our Loan and Security Agreement dated as of February 7, 2018, between us, as borrower, and BioPharma Credit PLC, as lender (\"2018 Credit Facility\"). We may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our existing indebtedness and any additional indebtedness we may incur could require us to divert funds identified for other purposes for debt service and impair our liquidity position.. 31. The fact that a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations could be needed to make payments on our indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following:. •  increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions or increased interests rates;. •  reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes;. •  limiting our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the markets in which we operate, which would place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have less debt;. •  limiting our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures and other investments; and. •  failing to comply with the covenants in our debt agreements could result in all of our indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable.. Our ability to obtain necessary funds through borrowing, as well as our ability to service our indebtedness, will depend on our ability to generate cash flow from operations. Our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us under our 2018 Credit Facility or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our inability to make scheduled payments on our debt obligations in the future would require us to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets or seek additional equity investment. We may not be able to take any of such actions on a timely basis, on terms satisfactory to us or at all.. Covenants in our debt agreements restrict our operational flexibility.. Our 2018 Credit Facility contains usual and customary restrictive covenants relating to the operation of our business, including restrictions on our ability:. •  to incur or guarantee additional indebtedness;. •  to incur or permit to exist certain liens;. •  to enter into certain sale and lease-back transactions;. •  to make certain investments, loans and advances;. •  to effect certain mergers, consolidations, asset sales and acquisitions;. •  to pay dividends on, or redeem or repurchase, capital stock, enter into transactions with affiliates or materially change our business; and. •  to repay or modify certain other agreements with respect to other material indebtedness or modify our organizational documents.. Risks relating to regulation. Our delivery system candidates must undergo rigorous preclinical and clinical testing and we must obtain regulatory approvals, which could be costly and time-consuming and subject us to unanticipated delays or prevent us from marketing any delivery systems.. Our research and development activities, as well as the manufacturing and marketing of Optune and our delivery system candidates, are subject to regulation, including regulation for safety, efficacy and quality, by the FDA in the United States and comparable authorities in other countries. FDA regulations and the regulations of comparable regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions are wide-ranging and govern, among other things:. •  the conduct of preclinical and clinical studies;. •  product design, development, manufacturing and testing;. •  product labeling;. •  product storage and shipping;. •  premarket clearance, approval and conformity assessment procedures;. •  premarket clearance, approval and conformity assessment procedures for modifications introduced in marketed products;. 32. •  post-approval market surveillance and monitoring;. •  reporting of adverse events or incidents and implementation of corrective actions, including product recalls;. •  pricing and reimbursement;. •  interactions with healthcare professionals;. •  advertising and promotion; and. •  product sales and distribution.. Clinical testing can be costly and take many years, and the outcome is uncertain and susceptible to varying interpretations. Moreover, success in preclinical and early clinical trials does not ensure that large-scale trials will be successful or predict final results. Acceptable results in early trials may not be replicable in later trials. A number of companies in the oncology industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. Negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause it to be redone or terminated. In addition, failure to construct appropriate clinical trial protocols could result in the test or control group experiencing a disproportionate number of adverse events and could cause a clinical trial to be suspended, redone or terminated. We cannot be certain if or when the FDA, a regulatory agency in another jurisdiction or our notified body (a private organization designated in an EU member state to conduct conformity assessment procedures under the Medical Devices Directive) might request additional studies, under what conditions such studies might be requested, or what the size or length of any such studies might be. The clinical trials of our delivery system candidates may not be completed on schedule, the FDA, regulatory agencies in other jurisdictions or our notified body may order us to stop or modify our research, or these agencies or our notified body may not ultimately approve or issue a CE Certificate of Conformity for any of our delivery system candidates for commercial sale. While we have received regulatory approval for Optune for treatment of adult patients with recurrent GBM in the United States, the FDA required us to initiate a post-approval study and we have met this requirement. The data collected from our clinical trials may not be sufficient to support regulatory approval in the United States, Japan and other countries or to obtain CE Certificate of Conformity in the European Union for our various future delivery system candidates. Even if we believe the data collected from our clinical trials are sufficient, the FDA, equivalent regulatory bodies in other jurisdictions and notified bodies have substantial discretion in the assessment and approval or conformity assessment processes and may disagree with our interpretation of the data. Our failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of any of our delivery system candidates would delay or prevent regulatory approval in the United States, Japan and other countries or the CE marking in the European Union of our delivery system candidates, which could prevent us from achieving profitability.. We currently market Optune in the United States, as well as the EU, Switzerland, Israel and Japan. We intend to market our Tumor Treating Fields delivery systems in a number of additional international markets. Although certain of our delivery systems have been approved for commercialization in Australia, Switzerland and Israel and are CE marked in the EU, in order to market our delivery systems in other jurisdictions and for other indications, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals and CE Certificates of Conformity, as applicable. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials and manufacturing and marketing of our delivery system candidates outside the United States vary widely from country to country. CE Certificates of Conformity and regulatory approvals in other jurisdictions may take longer to obtain than FDA approvals and can require, among other things, additional testing and different clinical trial designs. CE marking processes and regulatory approvals in other jurisdictions include essentially all of the risks associated with the FDA approval processes. Some regulatory agencies in other jurisdictions must also approve prices of the delivery systems. Approval of a product by the FDA does not ensure approval of the same product by the health authorities of other countries or CE marking of Optune in the EU and vice versa. In addition, changes in regulatory policy in the United States or in other countries for the approval or CE marking of a medical device during the period of product development and regulatory agency review or notified body review of each submitted new application may cause delays or rejections.. Upcoming changes in the EU rules governing the placing on the market of medical devices will have impact on the CE marking of Optune and our delivery system candidates in the EU. In April 2017, the EU adopted the new Medical Devices Regulation, replacing the two existing directives, the Medical Devices Directive and the Active Implantable Medical Devices Directive. The new regulation will enter into force after a three-year transition period ending in spring 2020. When applicable, the regulations will change the regulatory system for medical devices in the EU, which may prevent or delay the CE marking of our delivery system candidates or impact our ability to modify Optune for CE marking purposes on a timely basis.. We may choose to, or may be required to, suspend, repeat or terminate our clinical trials if they are not conducted in accordance with regulatory requirements, the results are negative or inconclusive or the trials are not well designed.. Clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with the FDA's cGCPs and the equivalent laws and regulations applicable in other jurisdictions in which the clinical trials are conducted. The clinical trials are subject to oversight by the FDA, regulatory agencies in other jurisdictions, ethics committees and institutional review boards at the medical institutions where the clinical trials are conducted.. 33. In addition, clinical trials must be conducted with delivery system candidates produced under the FDA's Good Manufacturing Practices (\"GMP\") and in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements in the other jurisdictions in which the clinical trials are conducted. The conduct of clinical trials may require large numbers of test patients. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population for the target indication, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the trial, the existence of competing clinical trials and the availability of alternative or new treatments. Clinical trials may be suspended by the FDA or by a regulatory agency in another jurisdiction at any time if the FDA or the regulatory agency finds deficiencies in the conduct of these trials or it is believed that these trials expose patients to unacceptable health risks.. We, the FDA or regulatory agencies in other jurisdictions might delay or terminate our clinical trials of a delivery system candidate for various reasons, including:. •  the delivery system candidate may have unforeseen adverse side effects;. •  the time required to determine whether the delivery system candidate is effective may be longer than expected;. •  we may not agree with the FDA, a regulatory authority in another jurisdiction or an ethics committee regarding the protocol for the conduct of a clinical trial;. •  new therapies may become the standard of care while we are conducting our clinical trials, which may require us to revise or amend our clinical trial protocols or terminate a clinical trial;. •  fatalities may occur during a clinical trial due to medical problems that may or may not be related to clinical trial treatments;. •  the delivery system candidate may not appear to be more effective than current therapies;. •  there may be insufficient patient enrollment in the clinical trials; or. •  we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of the delivery system candidate to complete the trials.. Furthermore, the process of obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals in the United States and other jurisdictions and CE Certificates of Conformity in the EU for new therapeutic products is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. It can vary substantially, based on the type, complexity and novelty of the product involved. Accordingly, any of our delivery system candidates could take a significantly longer time than we expect to, or may never, gain regulatory approval or obtain CE Certificates of Conformity in the EU, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations and cause our stock price to decline.. Healthcare reform and other legislative and regulatory changes in the United States and in other countries may adversely affect our business and financial results.. In response to perceived increases in healthcare costs in recent years, there have been and continue to be proposals by the U.S. federal government, state governments, regulators and third-party payers to control these costs and, more generally, to reform the United States healthcare system. In the United States, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the \"PPACA\"), was enacted in 2010 with a goal of reducing the cost of healthcare and substantially changing the way healthcare is financed by both government and private insurers.. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted in the United States since the PPACA was enacted. On August 2, 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011 created measures for spending reductions by Congress. A Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, tasked with recommending a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, was unable to reach required goals, thereby triggering the legislation's automatic reduction to several government programs. This included aggregate reductions of Medicare payments to providers of 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect on April 1, 2013. On January 2, 2013, the American Taxpayer Relief Act (the \"ATRA\"), was signed into law, which, among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals.. More recently, the new United States Administration and members of the U.S. Congress have stated that they will seek to modify, repeal, or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the PPACA. On January 20, 2017, President Donald Trump signed an executive order, which stated that it is the policy of his Administration to seek the prompt repeal of the PPACA and directed executive departments and federal agencies to waive, defer, grant exemptions from, or delay the implementation of the provisions of the PPACA to the maximum extent permitted by law. Additionally, the House and Senate attempted, but failed, to pass legislation to repeal all or portions of the PPACA and these efforts may be resumed.. 34. There is uncertainty with respect to the impact the United States Administration, the executive order and the attempted legislation may have, if any, and any changes will likely take time to unfold and could have an impact on coverage and reimbursement for healthcare items and services, including Optune and our delivery system candidates. For example, PPACA requires that health insurance plans sold to individuals and small businesses provide coverage for \"essential health benefits\" (EHBs), which are defined according to state-specific benchmark plans. The department of Health and Human Services has proposed a rule that has the potential to modify the implementation of the PPACA by changing the definitions of EHBs as defined in the PPACA. Changes to the definitions of the EHB, or providing states with increased flexibility to define EHBs, may have the effect of decreasing coverage for anti-cancer devices such as Optune.. In the future, the U.S. Congress could also pass additional healthcare laws and CMS could implement regulatory changes. Further, various healthcare reform proposals have emerged at the state level. These laws and regulations could potentially affect coverage and reimbursement for Optune and our delivery system candidates. However, we cannot predict the ultimate content, timing or effect of any future federal or state healthcare initiatives or the impact any future legislation or regulation will have on us.. In 2017 CMS published the Medicare Program:  Changes to the Medicare Claims and Entitlement, Medicare Advantage Organization Determination, and Medicare Prescription Drug Coverage Determination Appeals Procedures final rule.  This final rule aims to streamline the Medicare appeals process and includes changes such as permitting the designation of Medicare Appeals Council decisions as precedential, expanding the Office of Medicare Hearings and Appeals' available adjudicator pool, and simplifying proceedings when CMS or CMS contractors are involved, among others. The final rule became effective on March 20, 2017. We are monitoring the implementation of this final rule and cannot predict to what extent CMS may or may not use this final rule in denying coverage for Optune.. Additionally, the process governing Medicare appeals and the significant backlog of appeals at the Administrative Law Judge, or ALJ level is the subject of active litigation in the D.C. federal courts. We are monitoring the impact of this litigation on our ability to secure payment from the Medicare program and can provide no assurance that this case will result in payments for amounts that we have and will bill to Medicare.. We believe that substantial uncertainty remains regarding the net effect of the PPACA, or its repeal and potential replacement, on our business, including uncertainty over how benefit plans purchased on exchanges will cover our products, how the expansion or contraction of the Medicaid program will affect access to our products, the effect of risk-sharing payment models such as Accountable Care Organizations and other value-based purchasing programs on coverage for our product, and the effect of the general increase or decrease in Federal oversight of healthcare payers. The taxes imposed and the expansion in government's role in the U.S. healthcare industry under the PPACA, if unchanged, may result in decreased revenues, lower reimbursements by payers for our delivery systems and reduced medical procedure volumes, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations and cause our stock price to decline. Specifically, beginning in January 2013, PPACA imposed a 2.3% excise tax on the constructive sale price in the United States of certain medical devices by a manufacturer, producer or importer of such devices. This tax was initially suspended for two years beginning January 1, 2016 and ending December 31, 2017.  New legislation was passed such that this tax will continue to be suspended until January 1, 2020.. The competent authorities in the EU member states, Switzerland, Israel, Japan, and other jurisdictions are increasingly active in their goal of reducing public spending on healthcare. We cannot, therefore, guarantee that the treatment of patients with Optune would be reimbursed in any particular country or, if successfully included on reimbursement lists will remain thereon. In May 2017, new rules governing medical devices in the EU were adopted which will take effect in May 2020 and will impose additional requirements on manufacturers of medical devices placed on the market in the EU. Failure to comply with these new requirements may affect our ability to market our delivery systems in the EU.. We are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and equivalent authorities in other jurisdictions, which could restrict the sales and marketing of Optune and could cause us to incur significant costs. In addition, we may become subject to additional regulation in other jurisdictions as we increase our efforts to market and sell Optune outside of the United States.. We market and sell Optune, and expect to market and sell our delivery system candidates, subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and governmental authorities in other jurisdictions. These regulations are broad and relate to, among other things, the conduct of preclinical and clinical studies, product design, development, manufacturing, labeling, testing, product storage and shipping, premarket clearance and approval, conformity assessment procedures, premarket clearance and approval of modifications introduced in marketed products, post-market surveillance and monitoring, reporting of adverse events and incidents, pricing and reimbursement, interactions with healthcare professionals, advertising and promotion and product sales and distribution. Although we have received FDA approval to market Optune in the United States for the treatment of adult patients with newly diagnosed GBM (in combination with temozolomide) and recurrent GBM, we will require additional FDA approval to market Optune for other indications. We may be required to obtain approval of a new PMA or PMA supplement application for modifications made. 35. to Optune. This approval process is costly and uncertain, and it could take one to three years, or longer, from the time the application is filed with the FDA. We may make modifications in the future that we believe do not or will not require additional approvals. If the FDA disagrees, and requires new PMAs or PMA supplements for the modifications, we may be required to recall and to stop marketing the modified versions of Optune.. In addition, before our delivery systems can be marketed in the EU, they must obtain a CE Certificate of Conformity from a notified body. New therapeutic uses of CE marked medical devices falling outside the scope of the current CE Certificate of Conformity require a completely new conformity assessment before the device can be CE marked and marketed in the EU for the new intended purpose.. These processes can be expensive and lengthy and entail significant fees. The process preceding CE marking of a medical device in the EU or approval in Japan could also be expensive and lengthy and its outcome would be uncertain. We may make modifications in the future that we believe do not or will not require additional approvals or the notification of our notified body and potentially additional conformity assessment to permit the maintenance of our current CE Certificate of Conformity. If the competent authorities of the EU member states or our notified body disagree and require the conduct of a new conformity assessment procedure and the modification of the existing CE Certificate of Conformity or the issuance of a new certificate, we may be required to recall or suspend the marketing of the modified versions of Optune.. In Japan, new medical devices or new therapeutic uses of medical devices falling outside the scope of the existing approval by the MHLW require a new assessment and approval for each such new device or use.  Accordingly, we may be required to obtain a new approval from MHLW before we launch of a modified version of Optune or the use of Tumor Treating Fields for additional indications. Approval time frames from the MHLW vary from simple notifications to review periods of one or more years, depending on the complexity and risk level of the device. In addition, importation into Japan of medical devices is subject to \"Quality Management System (QMS) Ordinance,\" which includes the equivalent of \"Good Import Practices\" regulations in the United States. As with any highly regulated market, significant changes in the regulatory environment could adversely affect our ability to commercialize Optune and our other delivery systems in Japan.. In the United States and other jurisdictions, we also are subject to numerous post-marketing regulatory requirements, which include quality system regulations related to the manufacturing of our delivery systems, labeling regulations and medical device reporting regulations, which require us to report to the FDA or other regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions and notified bodies if our delivery systems cause or contribute to a death or serious injury, or malfunction in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. In addition, these regulatory requirements may change in the future in a way that adversely affects us. If we fail to comply with present or future regulatory requirements that are applicable to us, we may be subject to enforcement action by the FDA or other regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions and notified bodies, which may include any of the following sanctions:. •  untitled letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties;. •  unanticipated expenditures to address or defend such actions;. •  patient notification, or orders for repair, replacement or refunds;. •  voluntary or mandatory recall or seizure of our current or future delivery systems;. •  administrative detention by the FDA or other regulatory authority in another jurisdiction of medical devices believed to be adulterated or misbranded;. •  operating restrictions, suspension or shutdown of production;. •  refusal or delay of our requests for PMA or analogous approval for new intended uses or modifications to Optune;. •  refusal or delay of our requests for PMA or analogous approval of new delivery systems;. •  refusal or delay in obtaining CE Certificates of Conformity for new intended uses or modifications to Optune;. •  suspension, variation or withdrawal of the CE Certificates of Conformity granted by our notified body in the EU member states;. •  operating restrictions;. •  suspension or withdrawal of PMA or analogous approvals that have already been granted;. •  refusal to grant export approval for Optune or any delivery system candidates; or. •  criminal prosecution.. 36. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations and cause our stock price to decline.. Modifications to Optune or any of our delivery system candidates approved in the future may require approvals of new PMA or PMA supplement applications, modified or new CE Certificates of Conformity and analogous regulatory approvals in other jurisdictions or even require us to cease promoting or to recall the modified versions of Optune until such clearances, approvals or modified or new CE Certificates of Conformity are obtained, and the FDA, regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions or our notified body may not agree with our conclusions regarding whether new approvals are required.. Any modification to a device approved through the PMA pathway that impacts the safety or effectiveness of the device requires submission to the FDA and FDA approval of a PMA supplement application or even a new PMA application, as the case may be. The FDA requires a company to make the determination as to whether a new PMA or PMA supplement application is to be filed, but the FDA may review the company's decision. For example, in the past, we have made initial determinations that certain modifications did not require the filing of a new PMA or PMA supplement application and have notified the FDA of these changes in our PMA Annual Report, but after its review of our PMA Annual Report, the FDA requested that we submit these modifications to the FDA as a PMA supplement application.  From time to time, we may make other changes to the delivery systems, software, packaging, manufacturing facilities and manufacturing processes and may submit additional PMA supplement applications for these changes. FDA may conduct a facility inspection as part of its review and approval process.  In addition, it is possible that the FDA will require a human factors (user interface) study. It is also possible that the FDA may require additional clinical data. We can provide no assurance that we will receive FDA approval for these changes on a timely basis, or at all. We also may make additional changes in the future that we may determine do not require the filing of a new PMA or PMA supplement application. The FDA may not agree with our decisions regarding whether the filing of new PMAs or PMA supplement applications are required.. In addition, any substantial change introduced to a medical device CE marked in the European Union or to the quality system review by our notified body requires a new conformity assessment of the device and can lead to changes to the CE Certificates of Conformity or the preparation of a new CE Certificate of Conformity. Substantial changes include, among others, the introduction of a new intended purpose of the device, a change in its design or a change in the company's suppliers. Responsibility for determination that a modification constitutes a substantial change lies with the manufacturer of the medical device. We must inform the notified body that conducted the conformity assessment of the delivery systems we market or sell in the European Union of any planned substantial changes to our quality system or changes to our devices which could affect compliance with the Essential Requirements laid down in Annex I to the Medical Devices Directive or the devices' intended purpose. The notified body will then assess the changes and verify whether they affect the delivery system's conformity with the Essential Requirements laid down in Annex I to the Medical Devices Directive or the conditions for the use of the device. If the assessment is favorable, the notified body will issue a new CE Certificate of Conformity or an addendum to the existing CE Certificate of Conformity attesting compliance with the Essential Requirements laid down in Annex I to the Medical Devices Directive. There is a risk that the competent authorities of the EU member states or our notified body may disagree with our assessment of the changes introduced to our delivery systems. The competent authorities of the EU member states or our notified body also may come to a different conclusion than the FDA on any given product modification.. If the FDA disagrees with us and requires us to submit a new PMA or PMA supplement application for then-existing modifications and/or the competent authorities of the EU member states or our notified body disagree with our assessment of the change introduced in a product, we may be required to cease promoting or to recall the modified product until we obtain approval and/or until a new conformity assessment has been conducted in relation to the product, as applicable. In addition, we could be subject to significant regulatory fines or other penalties. Furthermore, our delivery systems could be subject to recall if the FDA, analogous regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions, or the competent authorities of the EU member states or our notified body determine, for any reason, that our delivery systems are not safe or effective or that appropriate regulatory submissions were not made. Any recall or requirement that we seek additional approvals or clearances could result in significant delays, fines, increased costs associated with modification of a product, loss of revenues and potential operating restrictions imposed by the FDA, analogous foreign regulatory authorities, or the competent authorities of the EU member states or our notified body. Delays in receipt or failure to receive approvals, the loss of previously received approvals, the failure to conduct appropriate conformity assessments prior to CE marking of our delivery systems, or the failure to comply with any other existing or future regulatory requirements, could reduce our sales, profitability and future growth prospects.. 37. We will spend considerable time and money complying with federal, state and regulations in other jurisdictions in addition to FDA regulations, and, if we are unable to fully comply with such regulations, we could face substantial penalties.. We are subject to extensive regulation by the U.S. federal government and the states and other countries in which we conduct our business. U.S. federal government healthcare laws apply when we submit a claim on behalf of a U.S. federal healthcare program beneficiary, or when a customer submits a claim for an item or service that is reimbursed under a U.S. federal government-funded healthcare program, such as Medicare or Medicaid. The laws that affect our ability to operate our business in addition to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and FDA regulations include, but are not limited to, the following:. •  the federal anti-kickback statute, which prohibits offering or providing remuneration of any kind for the purpose of inducing or rewarding referrals for items or services reimbursable by a federal healthcare program;. •  the U.S. federal False Claims Act (the \"False Claims Act\") which prohibits submitting false claims or causing the submission of false claims to the federal government;. •  Medicare laws and regulations that prescribe requirements for coverage and payment, including the conditions of participation for DME suppliers, and laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement under Medicare and Medicaid;. •  healthcare fraud statutes that prohibit false statements and improper claims to any third-party payer;. •  the federal physician self-referral prohibition, commonly known as the Stark law, which prohibits physicians from referring Medicare patients to an entity for the provision of certain designated health services (including DME) if the physician (or a member of the physician's immediate family) has an impermissible financial relationship with that entity;. •  similar state anti-kickback, false claims, insurance fraud and self-referral laws, which may not be limited to government-reimbursed items, as well as state laws that require us to maintain permits or licenses to distribute durable medical equipment;. •  federal and state accreditation and licensing requirements applicable to DME providers and equivalent requirements in other jurisdictions;. •  the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which can be used to prosecute companies in the United States for arrangements with physicians or other parties outside the United States if the physician or party is a government official of another country and the arrangement violates the law of that country;. •  the Federal Trade Commission Act, the Lanham Act and similar federal and state laws regulating advertising and consumer protection;. •  the Physician Payments Sunshine Act (the \"Sunshine Act\") and similar state and foreign laws, which require reporting of payments and other transfers of value to health care practitioners periodically; and. •  the laws and codes of practices applicable in the EU member states, Switzerland, Japan and other jurisdictions concerning the marketing and promotion of medical devices, interactions with healthcare professionals, consumer protection, comparative advertising and unfair commercial practices, data protection, anti-corruption, bribery and reimbursement of medical devices.. The laws and codes of practices applicable to us are subject to evolving interpretations. Moreover, certain federal and state laws regarding healthcare fraud and abuse and certain laws in other jurisdictions regarding interactions with healthcare professionals are broad and we may be required to restrict certain of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. Similar law exists in the EU, individual EU member states and other countries. These laws are complemented by EU or national profession codes of practices. Healthcare fraud and abuse laws also are complex and even minor, inadvertent irregularities can potentially give rise to claims that a statute has been violated. If a governmental authority were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we and our officers and employees could be subject to severe criminal and civil penalties, including, for example, exclusion from participation as a supplier of delivery systems to beneficiaries covered by federal healthcare programs. For example, most states require us to maintain a license as a DME provider. The Medicare program requires that we maintain accreditation with an independent quality body. Loss of this accreditation would result in loss of our billing privileges to Medicare.. Any violation of these laws or equivalent laws and codes of practices in other jurisdictions regarding interactions with healthcare professionals and bribery could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations and cause our stock price to decline. Similarly, if there is a change in law, regulation or administrative or judicial interpretations, we may have to change our business practices or our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful, which likewise could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations and cause our stock price to decline. In addition, although we believe that we have the required licenses, permits and accreditation to dispense Optune and to dispense our delivery system candidates in the future, a regulator could find that we need to obtain additional licenses or permits. We also may be subject to audits, mandatory reaccreditation and other requirements in order to maintain our billing privileges. Failure to satisfy those requirements or successfully address any issues identified in an audit could cause us to lose our privileges to bill public. 38. and private payers. If we are required to obtain permits or licenses that we do not already possess, we also may become subject to substantial additional regulation or incur significant expense. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations would adversely affect our ability to operate our business, our prospects and our financial results. In addition, any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management's attention from the operation of our business and damage our reputation.. If we, our contract manufacturers or our component suppliers fail to comply with the FDA's quality system regulations or equivalent regulations established in other countries, the manufacturing and distribution of our delivery systems could be interrupted, and our delivery system sales and results of operations could suffer.. We, our contract manufacturers and our component suppliers are required to comply with the FDA's quality system regulations and the equivalent quality system requirements imposed by the laws and regulations in other jurisdictions, which are a complex regulatory framework that covers the procedures and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of our delivery systems. All aspects of our supply chain are subject to periodic inspections and audits by the FDA, notified bodies and other regulatory authorities to ensure continuing compliance. We cannot assure you that our facilities or our contract manufacturers' or component suppliers' facilities would pass any future quality system inspection. If our or any of our contract manufacturers' or component suppliers' facilities fails a quality system inspection, the manufacturing or distribution of our delivery systems could be interrupted and our operations disrupted. Failure to take adequate and timely corrective action in response to an adverse quality system inspection could force a suspension or shutdown of our packaging and labeling operations or the manufacturing operations of our contract manufacturers, and lead to suspension, variation or withdrawal of our regulatory approvals or a recall of our delivery systems. If any of these events occurs, we may not be able to provide our customers with Tumor Treating Fields delivery systems that they require on a timely basis, our reputation could be harmed and we could lose customers, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations and cause our stock price to decline.. Our delivery systems may in the future be subject to recalls that could harm our reputation, business and financial results.. The FDA and similar governmental authorities in other jurisdictions have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. In the case of the FDA, the authority to require a recall must be based on an FDA finding that there is a reasonable probability that the device would cause serious injury or death. In addition, governmental bodies in other jurisdictions have the authority to require the recall of our delivery systems in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. Distributors and manufacturers may, under their own initiative, recall a product if any material deficiency in a device is found. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us or one of our manufacturers could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other deficiencies and issues. The FDA requires that certain classifications of recalls be reported to the FDA within ten working days after the recall is initiated. Requirements for the reporting of product recalls to the competent authorities are imposed in other jurisdictions in which our delivery systems are or would be marketed in the future. Companies are required to maintain certain records of recalls, even if they are not reportable to the FDA or to the competent authorities of other countries. In the future, we may initiate voluntary recalls involving our delivery systems that we determine do not require notification of the FDA or to other equivalent non-U.S. authorities. If the FDA or the equivalent non-U.S. authorities disagree with our determinations, they could require us to report those actions as recalls. A future recall announcement could harm our reputation with customers and negatively affect our sales. In addition, the FDA and the equivalent non-U.S. authorities could take enforcement action if we fail to report the recalls when they were conducted. Recalls of any of our delivery systems would divert managerial and financial resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations and cause our stock price to decline.. If our delivery systems cause or contribute to a death or a serious injury, or malfunction in certain ways, we will be subject to medical device reporting regulations, which can result in voluntary corrective actions or agency enforcement actions.. Under the FDA medical device reporting regulations and the equivalent regulations applicable in other jurisdictions in which our delivery systems are or may be marketed in the future, medical device manufacturers are required to report to the FDA and to the equivalent non-U.S. authorities information that a device has or may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or has malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction of the device or one of our similar devices were to recur. If we fail to report these events to the FDA or to the equivalent authorities in other jurisdictions within the required timeframes, or at all, the FDA or the equivalent authorities in other jurisdictions could take enforcement action against us. Any such adverse event involving our delivery systems also could result in future voluntary corrective actions, such as recalls or customer notifications, or agency action, such as inspection or enforcement action. Any corrective action, whether voluntary or involuntary, as well as defending ourselves in a lawsuit, will require the dedication of our time and capital, distract management from operating our business, and may harm our reputation and financial results.. 39. We may be subject to fines, penalties or injunctions if we are determined to be promoting the use of our delivery systems for unapproved or off-label uses.. Medical devices may be marketed only for the indications for which they are approved. Our promotional materials and training materials must comply with FDA regulations and other applicable laws and regulations governing the promotion of our delivery systems in the United States and other jurisdictions. Currently, Optune is approved for treatment of adult patients with newly diagnosed GBM (in combination with temozolomide) and recurrent GBM in the United States and Japan. In the European Union and Switzerland, we have CE marked the Optune delivery system for the treatment of newly diagnosed GBM (in combination with temozolomide), recurrent GBM, and advanced NSCLC (in combination with standard-of-care chemotherapy). Optune is also approved in Israel and in Australia for the treatment of recurrent GBM and newly diagnosed GBM (in combination with temozolomide).. If the FDA or the competent authorities in other jurisdictions, including the European Union member states, determine that our promotional materials or training constitutes promotion of an unapproved use, they could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory or enforcement actions, including the issuance of an untitled letter, a warning letter, an injunction, seizure, civil fines and criminal penalties. It is also possible that other federal, state or national enforcement in other jurisdictions authorities might take action if they consider our promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. In that event, our reputation could be damaged and commercialization of Optune and future delivery systems would be impaired.. U.S. legislative or FDA regulatory reforms may make it more difficult and costly for us to obtain regulatory approval of our delivery system candidates and to manufacture, market and distribute our delivery systems after approval is obtained.. From time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced in the U.S. Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the regulatory approval, manufacture and marketing of regulated products or the reimbursement thereof. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the FDA in ways that may significantly affect our business and our delivery systems. Any new regulations or revisions or reinterpretations of existing regulations may impose additional costs or lengthen review times of future delivery system candidates. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the agency in ways that may significantly affect our business and our delivery systems. It is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted or FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations changed, and what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. Any change in the laws or regulations that govern the clearance and approval processes relating to our current and future delivery systems could make it more difficult and costly to obtain clearance or approval for new delivery systems, or to produce, market and distribute Optune. Significant delays in receiving clearance or approval, or the failure to receive clearance or approval for our new delivery systems would have an adverse effect on our ability to expand our business in the United States.. As a DME supplier, if we are found to have violated laws protecting the confidentiality of patient health information, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, which could increase our liabilities and harm our reputation or our business.. There are a number of federal and state laws protecting the confidentiality of certain patient health information, including patient records, and restricting the use and disclosure of that protected information, as well as data protection laws applicable in other jurisdictions, such as the European Union member states. In particular, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services promulgated patient privacy rules under HIPAA. These privacy rules protect medical records and other personal health information by limiting their use and disclosure, giving individuals the right to access, amend and seek accounting of their own health information and limiting most use and disclosures of health information to the minimum amount reasonably necessary to accomplish the intended purpose. If we are found to be in violation of the privacy rules under HIPAA, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, which could increase our liabilities, harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The collection and use of personal health data in the European Union is currently governed by the provisions of Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of October 24, 1995, on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, commonly known as the Data Protection Directive. The European Union has adopted national laws and regulations transposing the EU Data Protection Directive into their national laws. The Data Protection Directive will be replaced in May 2018 by the GDPR which is designed to harmonize data privacy laws for both patient and employee data across Europe.  The aim of the GDPR is to protect all European Union citizens from privacy and data breaches in an increasingly data-driven world that is vastly different from the time in which the 1995 directive was established. Although the key principles of data privacy still hold true to the previous directive, the new regulation will require us to make operational changes relating to our receipt and processing of personal data of European Union citizens.  Important components of the new regulation include, but are not limited to, increased territorial scope; increased penalties up to 4% of annual gross revenue; stricter requirements for written privacy consent and notification language and specific and documented processes related to breach notification; right to be forgotten and right to access data; assignment of a Data Protection Officer.. 40. We are affected by and subject to environmental laws and regulations that could be costly to comply with or that may result in costly liabilities.. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations, including those that impose various environmental controls on the manufacturing, transportation, storage, use and disposal of batteries and hazardous chemicals and other materials used in, and hazardous waste produced by, the manufacturing of our delivery systems. We incur and expect to continue to incur costs to comply with these environmental laws and regulations. Additional or modified environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to the manufacture, transportation, storage, use and disposal of materials used to manufacture our delivery systems or restricting disposal or transportation of batteries, may be imposed that may result in higher costs.. In addition, we cannot predict the effect that additional or modified environmental laws and regulations may have on us, our third-party suppliers of equipment, batteries and our delivery systems or our customers. For example, we and our suppliers rely on an exemption from the European Directive 2011/65/EU relating to the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment relating to lead content in our transducer arrays. To the extent this exemption is revoked, it may have a material impact on our business and results of operations.. Regulations on the transportation of lithium ion batteries may affect our business.. Our delivery systems use lithium ion batteries.  The transportation of lithium and lithium-ion batteries is regulated worldwide. Laws regulating the transportation of batteries have been and may be enacted which could impose additional costs that could harm our ability to be profitable.. Under recommendations adopted by the International Air Transport Association (\"IATA\"), our batteries currently require a Class 9 designation for transportation. Our larger first generation delivery system batteries must be properly packaged and labeled in order to be shipped by air transport as cargo. Our smaller second generation delivery system batteries  can be shipped without the class 9 sticker if shipped with the device but require the class 9 sticker if shipped by air separately.  The larger batteries are not allowed on passenger aircraft according to the IATA standards. The smaller batteries are allowed as carry on only and cannot be checked as luggage.  Consequently, we offer to ship batteries for patients who are traveling by air.. If additional restrictions are put in place that limit our ability to ship our delivery systems by air freight or on water borne cargo, it could have an adverse effect on our supply chain, our inventory management procedures and processes and our ability to fill prescriptions and service patients in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, compliance with future worldwide or IATA approval process and regulations could require significant time and resources from our technical staff and, if redesign were necessary, could delay the introduction of new products.. Risks relating to intellectual property. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology, trade secrets or know-how, we may not be able to operate our business profitably. Similarly, if we fail to sustain, further build and enforce our intellectual property rights, competitors may be able to develop competing therapies.. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain and maintain protection for our delivery systems and technologies under the patent laws or other intellectual property laws of the United States and other countries. The standards that the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (\"USPTO\") and its counterparts in other jurisdictions use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change. Consequently, we cannot be certain as to whether pending patent applications will result in issued patents, and we cannot be certain as to the type and extent of patent claims that may be issued to us in the future. Any issued patents may not contain claims that will permit us to stop competitors from using similar technology.. Our current intellectual property portfolio consists of over 140 issued patents. The patents have expected expiration dates between 2021 and 2035. As such patents expire we will be subject to additional risks.  Patent expiration could adversely affect our ability to protect future product development and our competitors may develop and market competing products.  We have also filed additional patent applications worldwide that may never be issued. Consequently, our operating results and financial position could be materially adversely affected.  In addition, due to the extensive time needed to develop, test and obtain regulatory approval for our treatment therapies, any patents that protect our product candidates may expire early during commercialization. This may reduce or eliminate any market advantages that such patents may give us and harm our financial position. If we fail to develop and successfully launch new products prior to the expiration of patents for our existing products, our sales and profits with respect to those products could decline significantly. We may not be able to develop and successfully launch more advanced replacement products before these and other patents expire.. 41. Our existing and future patent portfolio also may be vulnerable to legal challenges. The standards that courts use to interpret patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change, particularly as new technologies develop. On September 16, 2011, President Obama signed into law the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act (\"AIA\") a significant patent law reform. The AIA implements a first-inventor-to-file standard for patent approval, changes the legal standards for patentability and creates a post-grant review system. As a result of the uncertainties of patent law in general, and surrounding the interpretation of the AIA in particular, we cannot predict with certainty how much protection, if any, will be given to our patents if we attempt to enforce them and they are challenged in court. Any attempt to enforce our intellectual property rights may also be time-consuming and costly, may divert the attention of management from our business, may ultimately be unsuccessful or may result in a remedy that is not commercially valuable. Such attempts may also provoke third parties to assert claims against us or result in our intellectual property being narrowed in scope or declared to be invalid or unenforceable.. In addition, we rely on certain proprietary trade secrets, know-how and other confidential information. We have taken measures to protect our unpatented trade secrets, know-how and other confidential information, including the use of confidentiality and assignment of inventions agreements with our employees, consultants and certain contractors. It is possible, however, that these persons may breach or challenge the agreements, that our trade secrets may otherwise be misappropriated or that competitors may independently develop or otherwise discover our trade secrets. There is therefore no guarantee that we will be able to obtain, maintain and enforce the intellectual property rights that may be necessary to protect and grow our business and to provide us with a meaningful competitive advantage, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations and cause our stock price to decline.. The oncology industry is characterized by patent and other intellectual property litigation and disputes, and any litigation, dispute or claim against us may cause us to incur substantial costs, could place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of management from our business, harm our reputation and require us to remove certain delivery systems from the market.. Whether a product infringes a patent or violates other intellectual property rights involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. Any intellectual property dispute, even a meritless or unsuccessful one, would be time consuming and expensive to defend and could result in the diversion of our management's attention from our business and result in adverse publicity, the disruption of research and development and marketing efforts, injury to our reputation and loss of revenues. Any of these events could negatively affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. Third parties may assert that Tumor Treating Fields, Optune, our other delivery system candidates, the methods employed in the use of our delivery systems or other activities infringe on their patents. Such claims may be made by competitors seeking to obtain a competitive advantage or by other parties, many of whom have significantly larger intellectual property portfolios than we have. Additionally, in recent years, individuals and groups have begun purchasing intellectual property assets for the purpose of making claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from companies like ours. The risk of infringement claims is exacerbated by the fact that there are numerous issued and pending patents relating to the treatment of cancer. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, and in many cases remain unpublished for many months after filing, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware that may later result in issued patents that our delivery systems may infringe. There could also be existing patents that one or more components of our delivery systems may inadvertently infringe. As the number of competitors in the market for the treatment of cancer grows, the possibility of inadvertent patent infringement by us or a patent infringement claim against us increases. To the extent we gain greater market visibility, our risk of being subject to such claims is also likely to increase.. If a third party's patent was upheld as valid and enforceable and we were found to be infringing, we could be prevented from making, using, selling, offering to sell or importing Optune or other delivery system candidates, unless we were able to obtain a license under that patent or to redesign our systems to avoid infringement. A license may not be available at all or on terms acceptable to us, and we may not be able to redesign our delivery systems to avoid any infringement. Modification of our delivery systems or development of delivery system candidates to avoid infringement could require us to conduct additional clinical trials and to revise our filings with the FDA and other regulatory bodies, which would be time-consuming and expensive. If we are not successful in obtaining a license or redesigning our delivery systems, we may be unable to make, use, sell, offer to sell or import our delivery systems and our business could suffer. We may also be required to pay substantial damages and undertake remedial activities, which could cause our business to suffer.. We may also be subject to claims alleging that we infringe or violate other intellectual property rights, such as copyrights or trademarks, may have to defend against allegations that we misappropriated trade secrets, and may face claims based on competing claims of ownership of our intellectual property. The confidentiality and assignment of inventions agreements that our employees, consultants and other third parties sign may not in all cases be enforceable or sufficient to protect our intellectual property rights. In addition, we may face claims from third parties based on competing claims to ownership of our intellectual property.. 42. We also employ individuals who were previously employed at other medical device companies, and as such we may be subject to claims that such employees have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed the alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers.  Any such litigation, dispute or claim could be costly to defend and could subject us to substantial damages, injunctions or other remedies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations and cause our stock price to decline.. The patent rights on which we rely to protect the intellectual property underlying Tumor Treating Fields delivery systems may not be adequate, which could enable third parties to use our technology or market competing products, which would harm our continued ability to compete in the market.. Our success will depend in part on our continued ability to develop or acquire commercially valuable patent rights and to protect these rights adequately. The scope of some of our patents is limited to certain ranges. For example, some of our patents protect low-intensity (1-3 V/cm), intermediate frequency (100-300 kHz) alternating electric fields, but do not cover intensities and frequencies for electric fields that are outside of these ranges. While intensities and frequencies of electric fields outside of these ranges have not yet proven to be effective treatment modalities, that may not be the case in the future. Our patent position is generally uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. The risks and uncertainties that we face with respect to our patents and other related rights include the following:. •  the pending patent applications we have filed may not result in issued patents or may take longer than we expect to result in issued patents;. •  the pending patent applications and patents we own may be subject to interference proceedings or similar disputes over the priority of the inventions claimed;. •  the claims of any patents that are issued may not provide meaningful protection;. •  we may not be able to develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable;. •  changes in patent laws or their interpretation in the United States and other countries (including the recently enacted AIA) could diminish the value of our patents, narrow the scope of our patent protection or adversely affect our ability to obtain new patents;. •  obtaining and maintaining patent protection depends on compliance with various procedural, document submission, fee payment and other requirements imposed by government patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements;. •  other parties may challenge patents, patent claims or patent applications licensed or issued to us, and such patents, patent claims or patent applications may be narrowed or found to be invalid or unenforceable; and. •  other companies may design around or expand upon technologies we have patented or developed.. We also may fail to apply for or be unable to obtain patent rights in some other countries. In addition, the legal systems of certain countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, which could affect our ability to enforce patent rights effectively in such other countries. For a variety of reasons, we may decide not to file for patent protection for certain of our intellectual property. Our patent rights underlying Tumor Treating Fields, Optune and our other delivery systems may not be adequate, and our competitors or customers may design around our proprietary technologies or independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal or superior to ours without infringing on any of our patent rights. In addition, the patents licensed or issued to us may not provide a competitive advantage, and may be insufficient to prevent others from commercializing products similar or identical to ours. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations and cause our stock price to decline.. We have limited intellectual property rights in other jurisdictions outside of our key markets and may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights throughout the world.. We have limited intellectual property rights outside of our key markets. In some countries outside the United States, we do not have any intellectual property rights, and our intellectual property rights in other countries outside the United States have a different scope and strength compared to our intellectual property rights in the United States. Consequently, we may not be able to prevent third parties from practicing our inventions in all countries outside the United States. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection to develop their own products and further, may export otherwise infringing products to territories where we have patent protection, but where enforcement rights are not as strong as those in the United States. These products may compete with our delivery systems, and our patents or other intellectual property rights may not be effective or adequate to prevent such competition.. 43. Changes in U.S. patent law could diminish the value of patents in general, thereby impairing our ability to protect our delivery systems.. As is the case with other medical device companies, our success is heavily dependent on our intellectual property rights, and particularly on our patent rights. Obtaining and enforcing patents in the medical device industry involves both technological and legal complexity, and is therefore costly, time consuming and inherently uncertain. In addition, the United States has recently enacted and is currently implementing wide-ranging patent reform legislation. Recent U.S. Supreme Court rulings have narrowed the scope of patent protection available in certain circumstances and weakened the rights of patent owners in certain situations. In addition to increasing uncertainty with regard to our ability to obtain patents in the future, this combination of events has created uncertainty with respect to the value of patents once obtained. Depending on decisions by the U.S. Congress, the federal courts and the USPTO, the laws and regulations governing patents could change in unpredictable ways that could further negatively impact the value of our patents, narrow the scope of available patent protection or weaken the rights of patent owners.. Risks relating to our ordinary shares. The market price for our ordinary shares may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses to you.. The market price for our ordinary shares may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as publication of clinical studies relating to Optune, our other delivery system candidates or a competitor's product, actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations, changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts, negative publicity, studies or reports, changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other companies that operate in our industry, changes in the availability of third-party reimbursement in the United States or other countries, changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals or applications, announcements by us or our competitors of material acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments, intellectual property litigation, release of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares, and economic or political conditions in the United States, Israel or elsewhere. In addition, the performance, and fluctuation in market prices, of companies in other jurisdictions that have listed their securities in the United States may affect the volatility in the price of and trading volumes of our ordinary shares. Volatility in global capital markets, as was experienced during the global financial crisis beginning in 2008 and during the recent European sovereign debt crisis, as well as volatility resulting from the recent economic slowdown in Asia, could also have an adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares. Furthermore, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price and liquidity of our ordinary shares.. Our ordinary shares are issued under the laws of Jersey, which may not provide the level of legal certainty and transparency afforded by incorporation in a U.S. state.. We are incorporated under the laws of the Bailiwick of Jersey, Channel Islands. Jersey legislation regarding companies is largely based on English corporate law principles. However, there can be no assurance that Jersey law will not change in the future or that it will serve to protect investors in a similar fashion afforded under corporate law principles in the United States, which could adversely affect the rights of investors.. U.S. shareholders may not be able to enforce civil liabilities against us.. We are a Jersey entity with most of our assets located outside of the United States. Although we have appointed an agent for service of process in the United States for purposes of U.S. federal securities laws, a number of our directors and executive officers and a number of directors of each of our subsidiaries are not residents of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of the assets of such persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon such persons or to enforce against them judgments obtained in U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States.. We have been advised by our Jersey lawyers that the courts of Jersey would recognize any final and conclusive judgment under which a sum of money is payable (not being a sum payable in respect of taxes or other charges of a like nature or in respect of a fine or other penalty) obtained against us in the courts of any other territory in respect of certain enforceable obligations in accordance with the principles of private international law as applied by Jersey law (which are broadly similar to the principles accepted under English common law) and such judgment would be sufficient to form the basis of proceedings in the Jersey courts for a claim for liquidated damages in the amount of such judgment. In such proceedings, the Jersey courts would not re-hear the case on its merits save in accordance with such principles of private international law. Obligations may not necessarily be enforceable in Jersey in all circumstances or in accordance with their terms; and in particular, but without limitation: (a) any agreement purporting to provide for a payment to be made in the event of a breach of such agreement would not be enforceable to the extent that the Jersey courts were to construe such payment to be a penalty that was excessive, in that it unreasonably exceeds the maximum damages that an obligee could. 44. have suffered as a result of the breach of an obligation; (b) the Jersey courts may refuse to give effect to any provision in an agreement that would involve the enforcement of any revenue or penal laws in other jurisdictions; and (c) the Jersey courts may refuse to allow unjust enrichment or to give effect to any provisions of an agreement (including provisions relating to contractual interest on a judgment debt) that it considers usurious.. Our annual and quarterly results may fluctuate due to a number of factors and, as a result, could fall below investor expectations or estimates by securities research analysts, which may cause the trading price of our ordinary shares to decline.. Our revenues and results of operations are difficult to predict, and potentially may vary significantly from period to period. As a result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, it is possible that results of operations for future periods may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Factors that may affect our quarterly results include, but are not limited to:. •  failure to obtain regulatory approval for our delivery systems;. •  failure to effectively commercialize our delivery systems;. •  competition; and. •  changes in the laws and regulations that affect our operations.. As a result, investors should not rely on year-to-year or quarter-to-quarter comparisons of results of operations as an indication of future performance.. Substantial future sales of our ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could cause the price of our ordinary shares to decline.. Sales of our ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. All ordinary shares sold in our IPO (other than any shares acquired by our affiliates) are freely transferable without restriction or additional registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act.. Our memorandum and articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could adversely affect the rights of holders of our ordinary shares.. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, referred to as the memorandum and articles of association, contain certain provisions that could limit the ability of third parties to acquire control of our company, including a provision for a classified board of directors and a provision that grants authority to our board of directors to issue from time to time one or more classes of preferred shares without action by our shareholders and to determine, with respect to any class of preferred shares, the terms and rights of that class. The provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of the opportunity to sell their ordinary shares at a premium over the prevailing market price by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transactions.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish unfavorable or inaccurate research about our business, our share price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our ordinary shares will continue to depend, in part, on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We may be unable to sustain coverage by well-regarded securities and industry analysts. If either none or only a limited number of securities or industry analysts maintain coverage of our company, or if these securities or industry analysts are not widely respected within the general investment community, the trading price for our ordinary shares would be negatively impacted. In the event we obtain securities or industry analyst coverage, if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our ordinary shares or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, the price of our ordinary shares would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our ordinary shares could decrease, which might cause the price of our ordinary shares and trading volume to decline.. 45. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired and investors' views of us could be harmed.. As a public company, we are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in such internal controls. We have spent considerable resources since our IPO designing, implementing and testing our internal controls over financial reporting and developing our internal audit function. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources."
