[1] "Item 1A  -  Risk Factors Related to NRG Energy, Inc.. Risks Related to the Operation of NRG's Business. The GenOn Entities filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, and NRG is subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with bankruptcy proceedings.. On the Petition Date, the GenOn Entities filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. GenOn Mid-Atlantic, as well as its consolidated subsidiaries, and REMA, did not file for relief under Chapter 11.. NRG is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties associated with the Chapter 11 Cases, which may lead to potential adverse effects on NRG's business, results of operations, or financial condition. NRG cannot assure you of the outcome of the Chapter 11 Cases. Potential risks to NRG associated with the Chapter 11 Cases include the following:. • the length of time the GenOn Entities will operate under the Chapter 11 proceedings and their ability to successfully emerge, including with respect to obtaining any necessary regulatory approvals;. • the ability of the GenOn Entities to consummate their plan of reorganization;. • risks associated with third party motions, proceedings and litigation in the Chapter 11 proceedings, which may interfere with the GenOn Entities' plan of reorganization;. • NRG's and the GenOn Entities' ability to manage contracts that are critical to NRG's operations, and to obtain and maintain appropriate credit and other terms with customers, suppliers and service providers;. • NRG's ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees;. • NRG's ability to fund and execute its business plan;. • the disposition or resolution of all pre-petition claims against NRG and the GenOn Entities; and. • NRG's ability to maintain existing customers and vendor relationships and expand sales to new customers.. The Settlement Agreement may not be consummated if certain conditions are not met. If the Settlement Agreement is not consummated, NRG may not be entitled to receive certain benefits contemplated by the Restructuring Support Agreement and plan of reorganization.. Under the Restructuring Support Agreement to which GenOn, NRG and certain of GenOn's and GenOn Americas Generation's senior unsecured noteholders are parties, each of them agreed to support Bankruptcy Court approval of the Settlement Agreement, subject to conditions.. While the Bankruptcy Court approved the Settlement Agreement and confirmed the proposed plan of reorganization on December 12, 2017, there can be no assurance that the conditions to the effectiveness of either the Settlement Agreement or plan of reorganization will be satisfied. In addition, GenOn is entitled to terminate the Restructuring Support Agreement and consider alternative transactions in accordance with its fiduciary duties. If the Settlement Agreement or plan of reorganization is not consummated, NRG may not receive certain of the benefits contemplated by the Restructuring Support Agreement.. The Chapter 11 Cases may disrupt NRG's business and may materially and adversely affect NRG's operations.. NRG has attempted to minimize the adverse effect of the GenOn Entities' Chapter 11 Cases on NRG's relationships with its employees, suppliers, customers and other parties. Nonetheless, NRG's relationships with its employees, suppliers, customers and other parties may be adversely impacted by negative publicity or otherwise and NRG's operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the Chapter 11 Cases could negatively affect NRG's ability to attract new employees and retain existing high performing employees or executives, which could materially and adversely affect NRG's operations.. As a result of the Chapter 11 Cases, NRG's historical financial information will not be indicative of NRG's future financial performance.. NRG's corporate structure will be significantly altered under any plan of reorganization. As of June 14, 2017, GenOn and its consolidated subsidiaries were deconsolidated from NRG's financial statements. Consequently, NRG's results of operations following the deconsolidation will not be comparable to the financial condition and results of operations reflected in NRG's historical financial statements for periods prior to the deconsolidation.. 34. NRG adopted and initiated the Transformation Plan. If the Transformation Plan does not achieve its expected benefits, there could be negative impacts to NRG's business, results of operations and financial condition.. NRG adopted and initiated the Transformation Plan, designed to significantly strengthen earnings and cost competitiveness, lower risk and volatility, and create significant shareholder value. The three-part, three-year plan is comprised of the following components: (i) operations and cost excellence; (ii) portfolio optimization; and (iii) capital structure and allocation enhancements.. As part of the Transformation, Plan, on February 6, 2018, NRG and GIP entered into a purchase and sale agreement for NRG to sell its ownership in NRG Yield, Inc. and its renewables platform to GIP for cash of $1.375 billion, subject to certain adjustments. Also on February 6, 2018, NRG and Cleco entered into a purchase and sale agreement for NRG to sell its South Central business to Cleco for cash of $1.0 billion, subject to certain adjustments. Both of these transactions are subject to various closing conditions and approvals.. NRG may be unable to fully implement the components of the Transformation Plan, in which case, NRG would not realize the anticipated benefits. Alternatively, such components of the Transformation Plan, even if implemented, may not result in the anticipated benefits to NRG's business, results of operations and financial condition in a timely manner if at all. Further, NRG could experience unexpected delays, business disruptions resulting from supporting these initiatives during and following completion of these activities, decreased productivity, adverse effects on employee morale and employee turnover as a result of such initiatives, any of which may impair NRG's ability to achieve anticipated results or otherwise harm NRG's business, results of operations and financial condition.. The proposed sales of assets to GIP and Cleco could be delayed or fail to close, or otherwise cause unanticipated issues, which could adversely affect NRG's business, results of operations and financial condition.. As described above, on February 6, 2018, NRG entered into a purchase and sale agreement with GIP pursuant to which NRG agreed to sell its ownership interest in NRG Yield, Inc. and NRG's Renewables platform.  Also on February 6, 2018, NRG and Cleco entered into a purchase and sale agreement for Cleco to purchase NRG's South Central business.  The proposed sales are subject to numerous closing conditions, including, among others, the receipt of certain consents and regulatory approvals.  A number of the closing conditions are outside of NRG's control and it cannot be predicted with certainty whether all of the required closing conditions will be satisfied or waived or if other uncertainties may arise.  In addition, regulators could impose additional requirements or obligations as conditions for their approval, which may be burdensome.  If such closing conditions are not met or additional obligations are imposed, the proposed sales may not be consummated at all or may encounter delays or other roadblocks that are not currently anticipated. Planning and executing the proposed separation and sale of NRG's renewables platform will require significant time, effort, and expense, and may divert management's attention from other aspects of NRG's business operations, and any delays in completion of the proposed sale may increase the amount of time, effort, and expense that NRG devotes to the transactions, which could adversely affect NRG's other operations. The current price of NRG's stock may reflect an assumption that the pending sales will occur and failure to complete the proposed sales could result in a decline in NRG's stock price. In addition, even if NRG completes the proposed sales, the actual impacts on NRG's business and financial results may differ from the anticipated results.. 35. NRG's financial performance may be impacted by price fluctuations in the wholesale power and natural gas, coal and oil markets and other market factors that are beyond the Company's control.. Market prices for power, capacity, ancillary services, natural gas, coal and oil are unpredictable and tend to fluctuate substantially. Unlike most other commodities, electric power can only be stored on a very limited basis and generally must be produced concurrently with its use. As a result, power prices are subject to significant volatility due to supply and demand imbalances, especially in the day-ahead and spot markets. Long- and short-term power prices may also fluctuate substantially due to other factors outside of the Company's control, including:. • changes in generation capacity in the Company's markets, including the addition of new supplies of power as a result of the development of new plants, expansion of existing plants, the continued operation of uneconomic power plants due to state subsidies, or additional transmission capacity;. • environmental regulations and legislation;. • electric supply disruptions, including plant outages and transmission disruptions;. • changes in power transmission infrastructure;. • fuel transportation capacity constraints or inefficiencies;. • changes in law, including judicial decisions;. • weather conditions, including extreme weather conditions and seasonal fluctuations, including the effects of climate change;. • changes in commodity prices and the supply of commodities, including but not limited to natural gas, coal and oil;. • changes in the demand for power or in patterns of power usage, including the potential development of demand-side management tools and practices, distributed generation, and more efficient end-use technologies;. • development of new fuels, new technologies and new forms of competition for the production of power;. • fuel price volatility;. • economic and political conditions;. • regulations and actions of the ISOs and RTOs;. • federal and state power regulations and legislation;. • changes in prices related to RECs; and. • changes in capacity prices and capacity markets.. Such factors and the associated fluctuations in power prices have affected the Company's wholesale power operating results in the past and will continue to do so in the future.. Many of NRG's power generation facilities operate, wholly or partially, without long-term power sale agreements.. Many of NRG's facilities operate as \"merchant\" facilities without long-term power sales agreements for some or all of their generating capacity and output and therefore are exposed to market fluctuations. Without the benefit of long-term power sales agreements for these assets, NRG cannot be sure that it will be able to sell any or all of the power generated by these facilities at commercially attractive rates or that these facilities will be able to operate profitably. This could lead to future impairments of the Company's property, plant and equipment or to the closing of certain of its facilities, resulting in economic losses and liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. NRG's costs, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely impacted by disruption of its fuel supplies.. NRG relies on natural gas, coal and oil to fuel a majority of its power generation facilities. Delivery of these fuels to the facilities is dependent upon the continuing financial viability of contractual counterparties as well as upon the infrastructure (including rail lines, rail cars, barge facilities, roadways, riverways and natural gas pipelines) available to serve each generation facility. As a result, the Company is subject to the risks of disruptions or curtailments in the production of power at its generation facilities if no fuel is available at any price or if a counterparty fails to perform or if there is a disruption in the fuel delivery infrastructure.. 36. NRG has sold forward a substantial portion of its coal and nuclear power in order to lock in long-term prices that it deemed to be favorable at the time it entered into the forward power sales contracts. In order to hedge its obligations under these forward power sales contracts, the Company has entered into long-term and short-term contracts for the purchase and delivery of fuel. Many of the forward power sales contracts do not allow the Company to pass through changes in fuel costs or discharge the power sale obligations in the case of a disruption in fuel supply due to force majeure events or the default of a fuel supplier or transporter. Disruptions in the Company's fuel supplies may therefore require it to find alternative fuel sources at higher costs, to find other sources of power to deliver to counterparties at a higher cost, or to pay damages to counterparties for failure to deliver power as contracted. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial performance.. NRG also buys significant quantities of fuel on a short-term or spot market basis. Prices for all of the Company's fuels fluctuate, sometimes rising or falling significantly over a relatively short period of time. The price NRG can obtain for the sale of energy may not rise at the same rate, or may not rise at all, to match a rise in fuel or delivery costs. This may have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial performance. Changes in market prices for natural gas, coal and oil may result from the following:. • weather conditions;. • seasonality;. • demand for energy commodities and general economic conditions;. • disruption or other constraints or inefficiencies of electricity, gas or coal transmission or transportation;. • additional generating capacity;. • availability and levels of storage and inventory for fuel stocks;. • natural gas, crude oil, refined products and coal production levels;. • changes in market liquidity;. • federal, state and foreign governmental regulation and legislation; and. • the creditworthiness and liquidity and willingness of fuel suppliers/transporters to do business with the Company.. NRG's plant operating characteristics and equipment, particularly at its coal-fired plants, often dictate the specific fuel quality to be combusted. The availability and price of specific fuel qualities may vary due to supplier financial or operational disruptions, transportation disruptions and force majeure. At times, coal of specific quality may not be available at any price, or the Company may not be able to transport such coal to its facilities on a timely basis. In this case, the Company may not be able to run the coal facility even if it would be profitable. Operating a coal facility with different quality coal can lead to emission or operating problems. If the Company had sold forward the power from such a coal facility, it could be required to supply or purchase power from alternate sources, perhaps at a loss. This could have a material adverse impact on the financial results of specific plants and on the Company's results of operations.. Changes in the price of coal and natural gas could cause the Company to hold excess coal inventories and incur contract termination costs.. Low natural gas prices can cause natural gas to be the more cost-competitive fuel compared to coal for generating electricity. Because the Company enters into guaranteed supply contracts to provide for the amount of coal needed to operate its base load coal-fired generating facilities, the Company may experience periods where it holds excess amounts of coal if fuel pricing results in the Company reducing or idling coal-fired generating facilities. In addition, the Company may incur costs to terminate supply contracts for coal in excess of its generating requirements.. 37. Volatile power supply costs and demand for power could adversely affect the financial performance of NRG's retail businesses.. Although NRG is the primary provider of its retail businesses' wholesale electricity supply requirements, the retail businesses purchase a significant portion of their supply requirements from third parties. As a result, financial performance depends on the ability to obtain adequate supplies of electric generation from third parties at prices below the prices it charges its customers. Consequently, the Company's earnings and cash flows could be adversely affected in any period in which the retail businesses' wholesale electricity supply costs rise at a greater rate than the rates it charges to customers. The price of wholesale electricity supply purchases associated with the retail businesses' energy commitments can be different than that reflected in the rates charged to customers due to, among other factors:. • varying supply procurement contracts used and the timing of entering into related contracts;. • subsequent changes in the overall price of natural gas;. • daily, monthly or seasonal fluctuations in the price of natural gas relative to the 12-month forward prices;. • transmission constraints and the Company's ability to move power to its customers; and. • changes in market heat rate (i.e., the relationship between power and natural gas prices).. The retail businesses' earnings and cash flows could also be adversely affected in any period in which its customers' actual usage of electricity significantly varies from the forecasted usage, which could occur due to, among other factors, weather events, competition and economic conditions.. There may be periods when NRG will not be able to meet its commitments under forward sale obligations at a reasonable cost or at all.. A substantial portion of the output from NRG's coal and nuclear facilities has been sold forward under fixed price power sales contracts through 2018 and the Company also sells forward the output from its intermediate and peaking facilities when it is commercially advantageous to do so. The Company also sells fixed price gas as a proxy for power. Because the obligations under most of these agreements are not contingent on a unit being available to generate power, NRG is generally required to deliver power to the buyer, even in the event of a plant outage, fuel supply disruption or a reduction in the available capacity of the unit. To the extent that the Company does not have sufficient lower-cost capacity to meet its commitments under its forward sale obligations, the Company would be required to supply replacement power either by running its other, higher cost power plants or by obtaining power from third-party sources at market prices that could substantially exceed the contract price. If NRG fails to deliver the contracted power, it would be required to pay the difference between the market price at the delivery point and the contract price, and the amount of such payments could be substantial.. In the Gulf Coast region, NRG has long-term contracts with rural cooperatives that require it to serve all of the cooperatives' requirements at prices for energy that generally reflect the cost of coal-fired generation.  On December 19, 2013, the Entergy region joined the MISO RTO, which employs a two settlement market in which NRG submits bids for energy to cover its load obligations and submits offers to sell energy from its resources.  Given the \"full requirements\" obligation contained in the cooperative contracts, and the possibility of unplanned forced outages of its generation, NRG may be exposed to locational market prices as a net buyer of energy for certain periods, which could have a negative impact on NRG's financial returns from its Gulf Coast region.. NRG's trading operations and use of hedging agreements could result in financial losses that negatively impact its results of operations.. The Company typically enters into hedging agreements, including contracts to purchase or sell commodities at future dates and at fixed prices, to manage the commodity price risks inherent in its power generation operations. These activities, although intended to mitigate price volatility, expose the Company to other risks. When the Company sells power forward, it gives up the opportunity to sell power at higher prices in the future, which not only may result in lost opportunity costs but also may require the Company to post significant amounts of cash collateral or other credit support to its counterparties. The Company also relies on counterparty performance under its hedging agreements and is exposed to the credit quality of its counterparties under those agreements. Further, if the values of the financial contracts change in a manner that the Company does not anticipate, or if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract, it could harm the Company's business, operating results or financial position.. NRG does not typically hedge the entire exposure of its operations against commodity price volatility. To the extent it does not hedge against commodity price volatility, the Company's results of operations and financial position may be improved or diminished based upon movement in commodity prices.. 38. NRG may engage in trading activities, including the trading of power, fuel and emissions allowances that are not directly related to the operation of the Company's generation facilities or the management of related risks. These trading activities take place in volatile markets and some of these trades could be characterized as speculative. The Company would expect to settle these trades financially rather than through the production of power or the delivery of fuel. This trading activity may expose the Company to the risk of significant financial losses which could have a material adverse effect on its business and financial condition.. NRG may not have sufficient liquidity to hedge market risks effectively.. The Company is exposed to market risks through its power marketing business, which involves the sale of energy, capacity and related products and the purchase and sale of fuel, transmission services and emission allowances. These market risks include, among other risks, volatility arising from location and timing differences that may be associated with buying and transporting fuel, converting fuel into energy and delivering energy to a buyer.. NRG undertakes these marketing activities through agreements with various counterparties. Many of the Company's agreements with counterparties include provisions that require the Company to provide guarantees, offset of netting arrangements, letters of credit, a first lien on assets and/or cash collateral to protect the counterparties against the risk of the Company's default or insolvency. The amount of such credit support that must be provided typically is based on the difference between the price of the commodity in a given contract and the market price of the commodity. Significant movements in market prices can result in the Company being required to provide cash collateral and letters of credit in very large amounts. The effectiveness of the Company's strategy may depend on the amount of collateral available to enter into or maintain these contracts, and liquidity requirements may be greater than the Company anticipates or will be able to meet. Without a sufficient amount of working capital to post as collateral in support of performance guarantees or as a cash margin, the Company may not be able to manage price volatility effectively or to implement its strategy. An increase in the amount of letters of credit or cash collateral required to be provided to the Company's counterparties may negatively affect the Company's liquidity and financial condition.. Further, if any of NRG's facilities experience unplanned outages, the Company may be required to procure replacement power at spot market prices to fulfill contractual commitments. Without adequate liquidity to meet margin and collateral requirements, the Company may be exposed to significant losses, may miss significant opportunities, and may have increased exposure to the volatility of spot markets.. The accounting for NRG's hedging activities may increase the volatility in the Company's quarterly and annual financial results.. NRG engages in commodity-related marketing and price-risk management activities in order to financially hedge its exposure to market risk with respect to electricity sales from its generation assets, fuel utilized by those assets and emission allowances.. NRG generally attempts to balance its fixed-price physical and financial purchases and sales commitments in terms of contract volumes and the timing of performance and delivery obligations through the use of financial and physical derivative contracts. These derivatives are accounted for in accordance with the FASB ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging, or ASC 815, which requires the Company to record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value with changes in the fair value resulting from fluctuations in the underlying commodity prices immediately recognized in earnings, unless the derivative qualifies for cash flow hedge accounting treatment. Whether a derivative qualifies for cash flow hedge accounting treatment depends upon it meeting specific criteria used to determine if the cash flow hedge is and will remain appropriate for the term of the derivative. All economic hedges may not necessarily qualify for cash flow hedge accounting treatment. As a result, the Company's quarterly and annual results are subject to significant fluctuations caused by changes in market prices.. Competition in wholesale power markets may have a material adverse effect on NRG's results of operations, cash flows and the market value of its assets.. NRG has numerous competitors in all aspects of its business, and additional competitors may enter the industry. Because many of the Company's facilities are old, newer plants owned by the Company's competitors are often more efficient than NRG's aging plants, which may put some of the Company's plants at a competitive disadvantage to the extent the Company's competitors are able to consume the same or less fuel as the Company's plants consume. Over time, the Company's plants may be squeezed out of their markets or may be unable to compete with these more efficient plants.. In NRG's power marketing and commercial operations, NRG competes on the basis of its relative skills, financial position and access to capital with other providers of electric energy in the procurement of fuel and transportation services, and the sale of capacity, energy and related products. In order to compete successfully, the Company seeks to aggregate fuel supplies at competitive prices from different sources and locations and to efficiently utilize transportation services from third-party pipelines, railways and other fuel transporters and transmission services from electric utilities.. 39. Other companies with which NRG competes may have greater liquidity, greater access to credit and other financial resources, lower cost structures, more effective risk management policies and procedures, greater ability to incur losses, longer-standing relationships with customers, greater potential for profitability from ancillary services or greater flexibility in the timing of their sale of generation capacity and ancillary services than NRG does.. NRG's competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new laws or regulations or emerging technologies, or to devote greater resources to the construction, expansion or refurbishment of their power generation facilities than NRG can. In addition, current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among current and new competitors may emerge and rapidly gain significant market share. There can be no assurance that NRG will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors, and any failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. Operation of power generation facilities involves significant risks and hazards customary to the power industry that could have a material adverse effect on NRG's revenues and results of operations, and NRG may not have adequate insurance to cover these risks and hazards.. The ongoing operation of NRG's facilities involves risks that include the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, performance below expected levels of output or efficiency and the inability to transport the Company's product to its customers in an efficient manner due to a lack of transmission capacity. Unplanned outages of generating units, including extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or other problems occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of the Company's business. Unplanned outages typically increase the Company's operation and maintenance expenses and may reduce the Company's revenues as a result of selling fewer MWh or non-performance penalties or require NRG to incur significant costs as a result of running one of its higher cost units or obtaining replacement power from third parties in the open market to satisfy the Company's forward power sales obligations. NRG's inability to operate the Company's plants efficiently, manage capital expenditures and costs, and generate earnings and cash flow from the Company's asset-based businesses could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. While NRG maintains insurance, obtains warranties from vendors and obligates contractors to meet certain performance levels, the proceeds of such insurance, warranties or performance guarantees may not be adequate to cover the Company's lost revenues, increased expenses or liquidated damages payments should the Company experience equipment breakdown or non-performance by contractors or vendors.. Power generation involves hazardous activities, including acquiring, transporting and unloading fuel, operating large pieces of rotating equipment and delivering electricity to transmission and distribution systems. In addition to natural risks such as earthquake, flood, lightning, hurricane and wind, other hazards, such as fire, explosion, structural collapse and machinery failure are inherent risks in the Company's operations. These and other hazards can cause significant personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property, plant and equipment, contamination of, or damage to, the environment and suspension of operations. The occurrence of any one of these events may result in NRG being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting claims for substantial damages, including for environmental cleanup costs, personal injury and property damage and fines and/or penalties. NRG maintains an amount of insurance protection that it considers adequate, but the Company cannot provide any assurance that its insurance will be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which it may be subject. A successful claim for which the Company is not fully insured could hurt its financial results and materially harm NRG's financial condition. NRG cannot provide any assurance that its insurance coverage will continue to be available at all or at rates or on terms similar to those presently available. Any losses not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Maintenance, expansion and refurbishment of power generation facilities involve significant risks that could result in unplanned power outages or reduced output and could have a material adverse effect on NRG's results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Many of NRG's facilities are old and require periodic maintenance and repair. Any unexpected failure, including failure associated with breakdowns, forced outages or any unanticipated capital expenditures could result in reduced profitability.. NRG cannot be certain of the level of capital expenditures that will be required due to changing environmental and safety laws (including changes in the interpretation or enforcement thereof), needed facility repairs and unexpected events (such as natural disasters or terrorist attacks). The unexpected requirement of large capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on the Company's liquidity and financial condition.. If NRG significantly modifies a unit, the Company may be required to install the best available control technology or to achieve the lowest achievable emission rates as such terms are defined under the new source review provisions of the CAA, which would likely result in substantial additional capital expenditures.. 40. The Company may incur additional costs or delays in the development, construction and operation of new plants, improvements to existing plants, or the implementation of environmental control equipment at existing plants and may not be able to recover their investment or complete the project.. The Company is developing or constructing new generation facilities, improving its existing facilities and adding environmental controls to its existing facilities. The development, construction, expansion, modification and refurbishment of power generation facilities involve many risks, including:. • inability to obtain sufficient funding on reasonable terms and/or necessary government financial incentives;. • delays in obtaining necessary permits and licenses;. • inability to sell down interests in a project or develop successful partnering relationships;. • environmental remediation of soil or groundwater at contaminated sites;. • interruptions to dispatch at the Company's facilities;. • supply interruptions;. • work stoppages;. • labor disputes;. • weather interferences;. • unforeseen engineering, environmental and geological problems, including those related to climate change;. • unanticipated cost overruns;. • exchange rate risks; and. • failure of contracting parties to perform under contracts, including EPC contractors.. Any of these risks could cause NRG's financial returns on new investments to be lower than expected or could cause the Company to operate below expected capacity or availability levels, which could result in lost revenues, increased expenses, higher maintenance costs and penalties. Insurance is maintained to protect against these risks, warranties are generally obtained for limited periods relating to the construction of each project and its equipment in varying degrees, and contractors and equipment suppliers are obligated to meet certain performance levels. The insurance, warranties or performance guarantees, however, may not be adequate to cover increased expenses. As a result, a project may cost more than projected and may be unable to fund principal and interest payments under its construction financing obligations, if any. A default under such a financing obligation could result in the Company losing its interest in a power generation facility.. Furthermore, where the Company has partnering relationships with a third party, the Company is subject to the viability and performance of the third party.  The Company's inability to find a replacement contracting party, particularly an EPC contractor, where the original contracting party has failed to perform, could result in the abandonment of the development and/or construction of such project, while the Company could remain obligated on other agreements associated with the project, including PPAs.. If the Company is unable to complete the development or construction of a facility or environmental control, or decides to delay, downsize, or cancel such project, it may not be able to recover its investment in that facility or environmental control.  Furthermore, if construction projects are not completed according to specification, the Company may incur liabilities and suffer reduced plant efficiency, higher operating costs and reduced net income.. NRG and its subsidiaries have guaranteed the performance of third parties, which may result in substantial costs in the event of non-performance.. NRG and its subsidiaries have issued certain guarantees of the performance of others, which obligate NRG and its subsidiaries to perform in the event that the third parties do not perform. In the event of non-performance by the third parties, NRG could incur substantial cost to fulfill their obligations under these guarantees. Such performance guarantees could have a material impact on the operating results, financial condition, or cash flows of the Company.. 41. The Company's development programs are subject to financing and public policy risks that could adversely impact NRG's financial performance or result in the abandonment of such development projects.. While NRG currently intends to develop and finance its more capital intensive projects on a non-recourse or limited recourse basis through separate project financed entities and intends to seek additional investments in most of these projects from third parties, NRG anticipates that it will need to make significant equity investments in these projects. NRG may also decide to develop and finance some of the projects using corporate financial resources rather than non-recourse debt, which could subject NRG to significant capital expenditure requirements and to risks inherent in the development and construction of new generation facilities. In addition to providing some or all of the equity required to develop and build the proposed projects, NRG's ability to finance these projects on a non-recourse basis is contingent upon a number of factors, including the terms of the EPC contracts, construction costs, PPAs and fuel procurement contracts, capital markets conditions, the availability of tax credits and other government incentives for certain new technologies. To the extent NRG is not able to obtain non-recourse financing for any project or should credit rating agencies attribute a material amount of the project finance debt to NRG's credit, the financing of the development projects could have a negative impact on the credit ratings of NRG.. NRG may also choose to undertake the repowering, refurbishment or upgrade of current facilities based on the Company's assessment that such activity will provide adequate financial returns. Such projects often require several years of development and capital expenditures before commencement of commercial operations, and key assumptions underpinning a decision to make such an investment may prove incorrect, including assumptions regarding construction costs, timing, available financing and future fuel and power prices.. Furthermore, the viability of the Company's renewable development projects are contingent on public policy mechanisms including production and investment tax credits, cash grants, loan guarantees, accelerated depreciation tax benefits, renewable portfolio standards, or RPS, and carbon-related mandates or controls. These mechanisms have been implemented at the state and federal levels to support the development of renewable generation, demand-side and smart grid, and other clean infrastructure technologies. The availability and continuation of public policy support mechanisms will drive a significant part of the economics and viability of the Company's development program and expansion into clean energy investments.. The Company's renewables business has a pipeline of projects across the utility scale and distributed generation markets, including both organically developed projects and projects acquired from third-parties.  If a number of the projects fail to proceed to construction or are not completed, the Company's business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected.. The development process is long and includes many steps such as project siting, financing, construction, permitting, government approvals and the negotiation of project development agreements.  There can be no assurance that the projects in the Company's renewables project pipeline will be completed on schedule or within budget, generate revenues, or receive the necessary financing for construction, among other risks. As the Company develops its renewables project pipeline, some of the projects in the pipeline may not be completed or proceed to construction as a result of various factors. These factors may include changes in applicable laws and regulations, including government incentives, environmental concerns regarding a project or changes in the economics related to a project, including the ability to finance a particular project. If a number of projects are not completed, the Company's business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected.. Supplier and/or customer concentration at certain of NRG's facilities may expose the Company to significant financial credit or performance risks.. NRG often relies on a single contracted supplier or a small number of suppliers for the provision of fuel, transportation of fuel and other services required for the operation of certain of its facilities. If these suppliers cannot perform, the Company utilizes the marketplace to provide these services. There can be no assurance that the marketplace can provide these services as, when and where required or at comparable prices.. At times, NRG relies on a single customer or a few customers to purchase all or a significant portion of a facility's output, in some cases under long-term agreements that account for a substantial percentage of the anticipated revenue from a given facility. The Company has also hedged a portion of its exposure to power price fluctuations through forward fixed price power sales and natural gas price swap agreements. Counterparties to these agreements may breach or may be unable to perform their obligations. NRG may not be able to enter into replacement agreements on terms as favorable as its existing agreements, or at all. If the Company was unable to enter into replacement PPAs, the Company would sell its plants' power at market prices. If the Company is unable to enter into replacement fuel or fuel transportation purchase agreements, NRG would seek to purchase the Company's fuel requirements at market prices, exposing the Company to market price volatility and the risk that fuel and transportation may not be available during certain periods at any price.. 42. The failure of any supplier or customer to fulfill its contractual obligations to NRG could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial results. Consequently, the financial performance of the Company's facilities is dependent on the credit quality of, and continued performance by, suppliers and customers.. The Company's retail businesses may lose a significant number of retail customers due to competitive marketing activity by other retail electricity providers which could adversely affect the financial performance of the Company's retail businesses.. The Company's retail businesses face competition for customers.  Competitors may offer different products, lower prices, and other incentives, which may attract customers away from NRG's retail businesses.  In some retail electricity markets, the principal competitor may be the incumbent utility.  The incumbent utility has the advantage of long-standing relationships with its customers and strong brand recognition.  Furthermore, NRG's retail businesses may face competition from a number of other energy service providers, other energy industry participants, or nationally branded providers of consumer products and services, who may develop businesses that will compete with NRG and its retail businesses.. NRG relies on power transmission facilities that it does not own or control and that are subject to transmission constraints within a number of the Company's core regions. If these facilities fail to provide NRG with adequate transmission capacity, the Company may be restricted in its ability to deliver wholesale electric power to its customers and the Company may either incur additional costs or forego revenues. Conversely, improvements to certain transmission systems could also reduce revenues.. NRG depends on transmission facilities owned and operated by others to deliver the wholesale power it sells from the Company's power generation plants to its customers. If transmission is disrupted, or if the transmission capacity infrastructure is inadequate, NRG's ability to sell and deliver wholesale power may be adversely impacted. If a region's power transmission infrastructure is inadequate, the Company's recovery of wholesale costs and profits may be limited. If restrictive transmission price regulation is imposed, the transmission companies may not have sufficient incentive to invest in expansion of transmission infrastructure. The Company also cannot predict whether transmission facilities will be expanded in specific markets to accommodate competitive access to those markets.. In addition, in certain of the markets in which NRG operates, energy transmission congestion may occur and the Company may be deemed responsible for congestion costs if it schedules delivery of power between congestion zones during times when congestion occurs between the zones. If NRG were liable for such congestion costs, the Company's financial results could be adversely affected.. The Company has a significant amount of generation located in load pockets, making that generation valuable, particularly with respect to maintaining the reliability of the transmission grid. Expansion of transmission systems to reduce or eliminate these load pockets could negatively impact the value or profitability of the Company's existing facilities in these areas.. The Company's use and enjoyment of real property rights for its projects may be adversely affected by the rights of lienholders and leaseholders that are superior to those of the grantors of those real property rights to the Company.. Solar and wind projects generally are, and are likely to be, located on land occupied by the project pursuant to long-term easements and leases. The ownership interests in the land subject to these easements and leases may be subject to mortgages securing loans or other liens (such as tax liens) and other easement and lease rights of third parties (such as leases of oil or mineral rights) that were created prior to the project's easements and leases. As a result, the project's rights under these easements or leases may be subject, and subordinate, to the rights of those third parties. The Company performs title searches and obtains title insurance to protect itself against these risks. Such measures may, however, be inadequate to protect the Company against all risk of loss of its rights to use the land on which the renewable projects are located, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. One of the Company's subsidiaries, NRG Yield, Inc., is a publicly traded corporation, which may involve a greater exposure to legal liability than the Company's historic business operations.. One of the Company's subsidiaries is NRG Yield, Inc., a publicly traded corporation. NRG's controlling voting interest in NRG Yield, Inc. and the position of certain of its executive officers that are serving on the Board of Directors of NRG Yield, Inc. or as executive officers may increase the possibility of claims of breach of fiduciary duties including claims of conflicts of interest related to NRG Yield, Inc. Any liability resulting from such claims could have a material adverse effect on NRG's future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 43. Because NRG owns less than a majority of the ownership interests of some of its project investments, the Company cannot exercise complete control over their operations.. NRG has limited control over the operation of some project investments and joint ventures because the Company's investments are in projects where it beneficially owns less than a majority of the ownership interests. NRG seeks to exert a degree of influence with respect to the management and operation of projects in which it owns less than a majority of the ownership interests by negotiating to obtain positions on management committees or to receive certain limited governance rights, such as rights to veto significant actions. However, the Company may not always succeed in such negotiations. NRG may be dependent on its co-venturers to operate such projects. The Company's co-venturers may not have the level of experience, technical expertise, human resources management and other attributes necessary to operate these projects optimally. The approval of co-venturers also may be required for NRG to receive distributions of funds from projects or to transfer the Company's interest in projects.. NRG may be unable to integrate the operations of acquired entities in the manner expected.. NRG enters into acquisitions that result in various benefits, including, among other things, cost savings and operating efficiencies. Achieving the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions depends on whether the businesses can be integrated into NRG in an efficient and effective manner. The integration process could take longer than anticipated and could result in the loss of valuable employees, the disruption of NRG's businesses, processes and systems or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices, policies and compensation arrangements, any of which could adversely affect the Company's ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions. NRG may have difficulty addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs or decreases in the amount of expected revenues and could adversely affect NRG's future business, financial condition, operating results and prospects.. Future acquisition or disposition activities could involve unknown risks and may have materially adverse effects.. NRG may in the future make acquisitions or dispositions of businesses or assets or pursue other business activities, directly or indirectly through subsidiaries, that involve a number of risks. The acquisition of companies and assets is subject to substantial risks, including the failure to identify material problems during due diligence, the risk of over-paying for assets, the ability to retain customers and the inability to arrange financing for an acquisition as may be required or desired. Further, the integration and consolidation of acquisitions requires substantial human, financial and other resources and, ultimately, the Company's acquisitions may not be successfully integrated. In the case of dispositions, such risks may relate to employment matters, counterparties, regulators and other stakeholders in the disposed business, risks relating to separating the disposed assets from NRG's business, risks related to the management of NRG's ongoing business, risks unknown to NRG at the time, and other financial, legal and operational risks related to such disposition. Any such risk may result in one or more costly disputes or litigation.  There can be no assurances that any future acquisitions will perform as expected or that the returns from such acquisitions will support the indebtedness incurred to acquire them or the capital expenditures needed to develop them. There can also be no assurances that NRG will realize the anticipated benefits from any such dispositions. The failure to realize the anticipated returns or benefits from an acquisition or disposition could adversely affect NRG's results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. NRG's business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted by strikes or work stoppages by its unionized employees or inability to replace employees as they retire.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 24% of NRG's employees at its U.S. generation plants were covered by collective bargaining agreements. In the event that the Company's union employees strike, participate in a work stoppage or slowdown or engage in other forms of labor strife or disruption, NRG would be responsible for procuring replacement labor or the Company could experience reduced power generation or outages. Although NRG's ability to procure such labor is uncertain, contingency staffing planning is completed as part of each respective contract negotiations.  Strikes, work stoppages or the inability to negotiate future collective bargaining agreements on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, a number of the Company's employees at NRG's plants are close to retirement. The Company's inability to replace retiring workers could create potential knowledge and expertise gaps as such workers retire.. Changes in technology may impair the value of NRG's power plants.. Research and development activities are ongoing to provide alternative and more efficient technologies to produce power, including wind, photovoltaic (solar) cells, energy storage, and improvements in traditional technologies and equipment, such as more efficient gas turbines. Advances in these or other technologies could reduce the costs of power production to a level below what the Company has currently forecasted, which could adversely affect its cash flows, results of operations or competitive position.. 44. The Company may potentially be affected by emerging technologies that may over time affect change in capacity markets and the energy industry overall with the inclusion of distributed generation and clean technology.. Some emerging technologies like distributed renewable energy technologies, broad consumer adoption of electric vehicles and energy storage devices could affect the price of energy.  These emerging technologies may affect the financial viability of utility counterparties and could have significant impacts on wholesale market prices, which could ultimately have a material adverse effect on NRG's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Risks that are beyond NRG's control, including but not limited to acts of terrorism or related acts of war, natural disaster, hostile cyber intrusions or other catastrophic events could  have a material adverse effect on NRG's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. NRG's generation facilities and the facilities of third parties on which they rely may be targets of terrorist activities, as well as events occurring in response to or in connection with them, that could cause environmental repercussions and/or result in full or partial disruption of the facilities ability to generate, transmit, transport or distribute electricity or natural gas. Strategic targets, such as energy-related facilities, may be at greater risk of future terrorist activities than other domestic targets. Hostile cyber intrusions, including those targeting information systems as well as electronic control systems used at the generating plants and for the distribution systems, could severely disrupt business operations and result in loss of service to customers, as well as significant expense to repair security breaches or system damage. Any such environmental repercussions or disruption could result in a significant decrease in revenues or significant reconstruction or remediation costs, beyond what could be recovered through insurance policies which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, significant weather events or terrorist actions could damage or shut down the power transmission and distribution facilities upon which the Company's retail businesses are dependent. Power supply may be sold at a loss if these events cause a significant loss of retail customer load.. The operation of NRG's businesses is subject to cyber-based security and integrity risk.. Numerous functions affecting the efficient operation of NRG's businesses depend on the secure and reliable storage, processing and communication of electronic data and the use of sophisticated computer hardware and software systems. The operation of NRG's generation plants, including STP, and of NRG's energy and fuel trading businesses rely on cyber-based technologies and, therefore, subject to the risk that such systems could be the target of disruptive actions, particularly through cyber-attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, or otherwise be compromised by unintentional events. As a result, operations could be interrupted, property could be damaged and sensitive customer information could be lost or stolen, causing NRG to incur significant losses of revenues, other substantial liabilities and damages, costs to replace or repair damaged equipment and damage to NRG's reputation. In addition, NRG may experience increased capital and operating costs to implement increased security for its cyber systems and plants.. The Company's retail businesses are subject to the risk that sensitive customer data may be compromised, which could result in an adverse impact to its reputation and/or the results of operations of the Company's retail businesses.. The Company's retail businesses require access to sensitive customer data in the ordinary course of business.  Examples of sensitive customer data are names, addresses, account information, historical electricity usage, expected patterns of use, payment history, credit bureau data, credit and debit card account numbers, driver's license numbers, social security numbers and bank account information.  NRG's retail businesses may need to provide sensitive customer data to vendors and service providers, who require access to this information in order to provide services, such as call center operations, to NRG's retail businesses.  If a significant breach occurred, the reputation of NRG and its retail businesses may be adversely affected, customer confidence may be diminished, or NRG and its retail businesses may be subject to legal claims, any of which may contribute to the loss of customers and have a negative impact on the business and/or results of operations.. Risks Related to Governmental Regulation and Laws. NRG's business is subject to substantial energy regulation and may be adversely affected by legislative or regulatory changes, as well as liability under, or any future inability to comply with, existing or future energy regulations or requirements.. NRG's business is subject to extensive U.S. federal, state and local laws and foreign laws. Compliance with the requirements under these legal and regulatory regimes may cause the Company to incur significant additional costs, and failure to comply with such requirements could result in the shutdown of a non-complying facility, the imposition of liens, fines, and/or civil or criminal liability.. 45. Public utilities under the FPA are required to obtain FERC acceptance of their rate schedules for wholesale sales of electricity. Except for ERCOT generating facilities and power marketers, all of NRG's non-qualifying facility generating companies and power marketing affiliates in the U.S. make sales of electricity in interstate commerce and are public utilities for purposes of the FPA. FERC has granted each of NRG's generating and power marketing companies that make sales of electricity outside of ERCOT the authority to sell electricity at market-based rates. FERC's orders that grant NRG's generating and power marketing companies market-based rate authority reserve the right to revoke or revise that authority if FERC subsequently determines that NRG can exercise market power in transmission or generation, create barriers to entry, or engage in abusive affiliate transactions. In addition, NRG's market-based sales are subject to certain market behavior rules, and if any of NRG's generating and power marketing companies were deemed to have violated those rules, they are subject to potential disgorgement of profits associated with the violation and/or suspension or revocation of their market-based rate authority. If NRG's generating and power marketing companies were to lose their market-based rate authority, such companies would be required to obtain FERC's acceptance of a cost-of-service rate schedule and could become subject to the accounting, record-keeping, and reporting requirements that are imposed on utilities with cost-based rate schedules. This could have a material adverse effect on the rates NRG charges for power from its facilities.. Substantially all of the Company's generation assets are also subject to the reliability standards promulgated by the designated Electric Reliability Organization (currently NERC) and approved by FERC.  If NRG fails to comply with the mandatory reliability standards, NRG could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties and increased compliance obligations. NRG is also affected by legislative and regulatory changes, as well as changes to market design, market rules, tariffs, cost allocations, and bidding rules that occur in the existing ISOs. The ISOs that oversee most of the wholesale power markets impose, and in the future may continue to impose, mitigation, including price limitations, offer caps, non-performance penalties and other mechanisms to address some of the volatility and the potential exercise of market power in these markets. These types of price limitations and other regulatory mechanisms may have a material adverse effect on the profitability of NRG's generation facilities that sell energy and capacity into the wholesale power markets.. The regulatory environment has undergone significant changes in the last several years due to state and federal policies affecting wholesale and retail competition and the creation of incentives for the addition of large amounts of new renewable generation and, in some cases, transmission.  These changes are ongoing, and the Company cannot predict the future design of the wholesale power markets or the ultimate effect that the changing regulatory environment will have on NRG's business. In addition, in some of these markets, interested parties have proposed material market design changes, including the elimination of a single clearing price mechanism, as well as proposals to reinstate the vertical monopoly utility of the markets or require divestiture by generating companies to reduce their market share.  If competitive restructuring of the electric power markets is reversed, discontinued, or delayed, the Company's business prospects and financial results could be negatively impacted.  In addition, since 2010, there have been a number of reforms to the regulation of the derivatives markets, both in the United States and internationally.  These regulations, and any further changes thereto, or adoption of additional regulations, including any regulations relating to position limits on futures and other derivatives or margin for derivatives, could negatively impact NRG's ability to hedge its portfolio in an efficient, cost-effective manner by, among other things, potentially decreasing liquidity in the forward commodity and derivatives markets or limiting NRG's ability to utilize non-cash collateral for derivatives transactions.. NRG's business may be affected by state interference in the competitive wholesale marketplace.. NRG's legacy generation and competitive retail businesses rely on a competitive wholesale marketplace.  The competitive wholesale marketplace may be undermined by out-of-market subsidies provided by states or state entities, including bailouts of uneconomic nuclear plants, imports of power from Canada, renewable mandates or subsidies, as well as out-of-market payments to new generators.  These out-of-market subsidies to existing or new generation undermine the competitive wholesale marketplace, which can lead to premature retirement of existing facilities, including those owned by the Company.  If these measures continue, capacity and energy prices may be suppressed, and the Company may not be successful in its efforts to insulate the competitive market from this interference.. Government regulations providing incentives for renewable generation could change at any time and such changes may adversely impact NRG's business, revenues, margins, results of operations and cash flows.. The Company's growth strategy depends in part on government policies that support renewable generation and enhance the economic viability of owning renewable electric generation assets.  Renewable generation assets currently benefit from various federal, state and local governmental incentives such as ITCs, PTCs, cash grants in lieu of ITCs, loan guarantees, RPS programs, modified accelerated cost-recovery system of depreciation and bonus depreciation. For example, in December 2015, the U.S. Congress enacted an extension of the 30% solar ITC so that projects which began construction in 2016 through 2019 will continue to qualify for the 30% ITC.  Projects beginning construction in 2020 and 2021 will be eligible for the ITC at the rates of 26% and 22%, respectively.  The same legislation also extended the 10-year wind PTC for wind projects which began construction in 2016 through 2019.  Wind projects which begin construction in the years 2017, 2018 and 2019 are eligible for PTCs at 80%, 60% and 40% of the statutory rate per kWh, respectively.. 46. Many states have adopted RPS programs mandating that a specified percentage of electricity sales come from eligible sources of renewable energy.  However, the regulations that govern the RPS programs, including pricing incentives for renewable energy, or reasonableness guidelines for pricing that increase valuation compared to conventional power (such as a projected value for carbon reduction or consideration of avoided integration costs), may change.  If the RPS requirements are reduced or eliminated, it could lead to fewer future power contracts or lead to lower prices for the sale of power in future power contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's future growth prospects.. Such material adverse effects may result from decreased revenues, reduced economic returns on certain project company investments, increased financing costs, and/or difficulty obtaining financing. Furthermore, the ARRA included incentives to encourage investment in the renewable energy sector, such as cash grants in lieu of ITCs, bonus depreciation and expansion of the U.S. DOE loan guarantee program. It is uncertain what loan guarantees may be made by the U.S. DOE loan guarantee program in the future. In addition, the cash grant in lieu of ITCs program only applies to facilities that commenced construction prior to December 31, 2011, which commencement date may be determined in accordance with the safe harbor if more than 5% of the total cost of the eligible property was paid or incurred by December 31, 2011.. If the Company is unable to utilize various federal, state and local government incentives to acquire additional renewable assets in the future, or the terms of such incentives are revised in a manner that is less favorable to the Company, it may suffer a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The integration of the Capacity Performance product into the PJM market and the Pay-for-Performance mechanism in ISO-NE could lead to substantial changes in capacity income and non-performance penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on NRG's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Both ISO-NE and PJM operate a pay-for-performance model where capacity payments are modified based on real-time generator performance.  Capacity market prices are sensitive to design parameters, as well as additions of new capacity.  NRG may experience substantial changes in capacity income and non-performance penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on NRG's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Certain of NRG's long-term bilateral contracts result from state-mandated procurements and could be declared invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction.. A significant portion of NRG's revenues are derived from long-term bilateral contracts with utilities that are regulated by their respective states, and have been entered into pursuant to certain state programs.  Certain long-term contracts that other companies have with state-regulated utilities have been challenged in federal court and have been declared unconstitutional on the grounds that the rate for energy and capacity established by the contracts impermissibly conflicts with the rate for energy and capacity established by FERC pursuant to the FPA. If certain of the Company's state-mandated agreements with utilities are ever held to be invalid, NRG may be unable to replace such contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on NRG's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. NRG's ownership interest in a nuclear power facility subjects the Company to regulations, costs and liabilities uniquely associated with these types of facilities.. Under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, or AEA, ownership and operation of STP, of which NRG indirectly owns a 44% interest, is subject to regulation by the NRC.  Such regulation includes licensing, inspection, enforcement, testing, evaluation and modification of all aspects of nuclear reactor power plant design and operation, environmental and safety performance, technical and financial qualifications, decommissioning funding assurance and transfer and foreign ownership restrictions.  The current facility operating licenses for STP expire on August 20, 2047 (Unit 1) and December 15, 2048 (Unit 2).. 47. There are unique risks to owning and operating a nuclear power facility.  These include liabilities related to the handling, treatment, storage, disposal, transport, release and use of radioactive materials, particularly with respect to spent nuclear fuel, and uncertainties regarding the ultimate, and potential exposure to, technical and financial risks associated with modifying or decommissioning a nuclear facility.  The NRC could require the shutdown of the plant for safety reasons or refuse to permit restart of the unit after unplanned or planned outages.  New or amended NRC safety and regulatory requirements may give rise to additional operation and maintenance costs and capital expenditures.  Additionally, aging equipment may require more capital expenditures to keep each of these nuclear power plants operating efficiently.  This equipment is also likely to require periodic upgrading and improvement.  Any unexpected failure, including failure associated with breakdowns, forced outages, or any unanticipated capital expenditures, could result in reduced profitability.  STP will be obligated to continue storing spent nuclear fuel if the U.S. DOE continues to fail to meet its contractual obligations to STP made pursuant to the U.S. Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 to accept and dispose of STP's spent nuclear fuel.  See also Item 1  -  Regulatory Matters  -  Nuclear Operations - Decommissioning Trusts and Item 1  -  Environmental Matters  -  Federal Environmental Initiatives  -  Nuclear Waste for further discussion.  Costs associated with these risks could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on NRG's results of operations, financial condition or cash flow to the extent not covered by the Decommissioning Trusts or recovered from ratepayers.  In addition, to the extent that all or a part of STP is required by the NRC to permanently or temporarily shut down or modify its operations, or is otherwise subject to a forced outage, NRG may incur additional costs to the extent it is obligated to provide power from more expensive alternative sources  -  either NRG's own plants, third party generators or the ERCOT  -  to cover the Company's then existing forward sale obligations.  Such shutdown or modification could also lead to substantial costs related to the storage and disposal of radioactive materials and spent nuclear fuel.. While STP maintains property and liability insurance for losses related to nuclear operations, there may be limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available.  See also Item 15  -  Note 22, Commitments and Contingencies, Nuclear Insurance.  An accident at STP or another nuclear facility could have a material adverse effect on NRG's financial condition, its operational results, or liquidity as losses may exceed the insurance coverage available and/or may result in the obligation to pay retrospective premium obligations.. NRG is subject to environmental laws that impose extensive and increasingly stringent requirements on the Company's ongoing operations, as well as potentially substantial liabilities arising out of environmental contamination. These environmental requirements and liabilities could adversely impact NRG's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. NRG is subject to the environmental laws of foreign and U.S., federal, state and local authorities.  The Company must comply with numerous environmental laws and obtain numerous governmental permits and approvals to build and operate the Company's plants.  Federal and state environmental laws generally have become more stringent over time, although this trend could slow or pause. Should NRG fail to comply with any environmental requirements that apply to its operations, the Company could be subject to administrative, civil and/or criminal liability and fines, and regulatory agencies could take other actions seeking to curtail the Company's operations.  In addition, when new requirements take effect or when existing environmental requirements are revised, reinterpreted or subject to changing enforcement policies, NRG's business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected.. NRG's businesses are subject to physical, market and economic risks relating to potential effects of climate change.. Climate change is producing changes in weather and other environmental conditions, including temperature and precipitation levels, and thus may affect consumer demand for electricity. In addition, the potential physical effects of climate change, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other climatic events, could disrupt NRG's operations and supply chain, and cause them to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to these effects. These or other meteorological changes could lead to increased operating costs, capital expenses or power purchase costs. NRG's commercial and residential customers may also experience the potential physical impacts of climate change and may incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to these efforts, including increasing the mix and resiliency of their energy solutions and supply.. Climate change could also affect the availability of a secure and economical supply of water in some locations, which is essential for the continued operation of NRG's generation plants. Water risk is monitored by the risk owners (individual plant operators) and reported to Company management upon changes with a significance threshold of 20% in water consumption and withdrawal levels.   If it is determined that a water supply risk exists that could impact projected generation levels at any plant within the subsequent two year time frame, risk mitigation efforts are identified and economically evaluated for implementation. Water risk regarding the impact for barge delivery is evaluated on a daily basis, with contingency plans developed as needed.. GHG regulation could increase the cost of electricity generated by fossil fuels, and such increases could reduce demand for the power NRG generates and markets. Also, demand for NRG's energy-related services could be similarly impacted by consumers' preferences or market factors favoring energy efficiency, low-carbon power sources or reduced electricity usage.. 48. Policies at the national, regional and state levels to regulate GHG emissions, as well as mitigate climate change, could adversely impact NRG's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. NRG's GHG emissions for 2017 can be found in Item 1, Business  -  Environmental Matters.  In 2015, the EPA promulgated the final GHG emissions rules for new and existing fossil-fuel-fired electric generating units, which have been stayed by the U.S. Supreme Court and the EPA has proposed repealing.. The Company operates generating units in Connecticut, Delaware, Maryland, and New York that are subject to RGGI, which is a regional cap and trade system. In 2013, each of these states finalized a rule that reduced and will continue to reduce the number of allowances through 2020.  The nine RGGI states re-evaluated the program and published a model rule to further reduce the number of allowances. The revisions being currently contemplated could adversely impact NRG's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. California has a CO2 cap and trade program for electric generating units greater than 25 MW. The impact on the Company depends on the cost of the allowances and the ability to pass these costs through to customers.. Hazards customary to the power production industry include the potential for unusual weather conditions, which could affect fuel pricing and availability, the Company's route to market or access to customers, i.e., transmission and distribution lines, or critical plant assets. The contribution of climate change to the frequency or intensity of weather-related events could affect NRG's operations and planning process.. NRG's retail businesses are subject to changing state rules and regulations that could have a material impact on the profitability of its business lines.. The competitiveness of NRG's retail businesses partially depends on state regulatory policies that establish the structure, rules, terms and conditions on which services are offered to retail customers.  These state policies, which can include controls on the retail rates NRG's retail businesses can charge, the imposition of additional costs on sales, restrictions on the Company's ability to obtain new customers through various marketing channels and disclosure requirements, which can affect the competitiveness of NRG's retail businesses.  Additionally, state or federal imposition of net metering or RPS programs can make it more or less expensive for retail customers to supplement or replace their reliance on grid power.  NRG's retail businesses have limited ability to influence development of these policies, and its business model may be more or less effective, depending on changes to the regulatory environment.. The Company's international operations are exposed to political and economic risks, commercial instability and events beyond the Company's control in the countries in which it operates, which risks may negatively impact the Company's business.. The Company's international operations depend on products manufactured, purchased and sold in the U.S. and internationally, including in countries with political and economic instability.  In some cases, these countries have greater political and economic volatility and greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions than in NRG's other markets.  The Company's business could be negatively impacted by adverse fluctuations in freight costs, limitations on shipping and receiving capacity, and other disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for the Company's products. Operating and seeking to expand business in a number of different regions and countries exposes the Company to a number of risks, including:. • multiple and potentially conflicting laws, regulations and policies that are subject to change;. • imposition of currency restrictions on repatriation of earnings or other restraints;. • imposition of burdensome tariffs or quotas;. • national and international conflict, including terrorist acts; and. • political and economic instability or civil unrest that may severely disrupt economic activity in affected countries.. The occurrence of one or more of these events may negatively impact the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.. 49. Risks Related to Economic and Financial Market Conditions. NRG's level of indebtedness could adversely affect its ability to raise additional capital to fund its operations or return capital to stockholders. It could also expose it to the risk of increased interest rates and limit its ability to react to changes in the economy or its industry.. NRG's substantial debt could have negative consequences, including:. • increasing NRG's vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions;. • requiring a substantial portion of NRG's cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on its indebtedness, therefore reducing NRG's ability to pay dividends to holders of its preferred or common stock or to use its cash flow to fund its operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities;. • limiting NRG's ability to enter into long-term power sales or fuel purchases which require credit support;. • exposing NRG to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of its borrowings, including borrowings under its senior secured credit facility are at variable rates of interest;. • limiting NRG's ability to obtain additional financing for working capital including collateral postings, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and. • limiting NRG's ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing it at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors who have less debt.. The indentures for NRG's notes and senior secured credit facility contain financial and other restrictive covenants that may limit the Company's ability to return capital to stockholders or otherwise engage in activities that may be in its long-term best interests.  Furthermore, financial and other restrictive covenants contained in any project level subsidiary debt may limit the ability of NRG to receive distributions from such subsidiary. NRG's failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of the Company's indebtedness.. In addition, NRG's ability to arrange financing, either at the corporate level, a non-recourse project-level subsidiary or otherwise, and the costs of such capital, are dependent on numerous factors, including:. • general economic and capital market conditions;. • credit availability from banks and other financial institutions;. • investor confidence in NRG, its partners and the regional wholesale power markets;. • NRG's financial performance and the financial performance of its subsidiaries;. • NRG's level of indebtedness and compliance with covenants in debt agreements;. • maintenance of acceptable credit ratings;. • cash flow; and. • provisions of tax and securities laws that may impact raising capital.. NRG may not be successful in obtaining additional capital for these or other reasons. The failure to obtain additional capital from time to time may have a material adverse effect on its business and operations.. Adverse economic conditions could adversely affect NRG's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Adverse economic conditions and declines in wholesale energy prices, partially resulting from adverse economic conditions, may impact NRG's earnings. The breadth and depth of negative economic conditions may have a wide-ranging impact on the U.S. business environment, including NRG's businesses. In addition, adverse economic conditions also reduce the demand for energy commodities. Reduced demand from negative economic conditions continues to impact the key domestic wholesale energy markets NRG serves. The combination of lower demand for power and increased supply of natural gas has put downward price pressure on wholesale energy markets in general, further impacting NRG's energy marketing results. In general, economic and commodity market conditions will continue to impact NRG's unhedged future energy margins, liquidity, earnings growth and overall financial condition. In addition, adverse economic conditions, declines in wholesale energy prices, reduced demand for power and other factors may negatively impact the trading price of NRG's common stock and impact forecasted cash flows, which may require NRG to evaluate its goodwill and other long-lived assets for impairment. Any such impairment could have a material impact on NRG's financial statements.. 50. Goodwill and/or other intangible assets not subject to amortization that NRG has recorded in connection with its acquisitions are subject to mandatory annual impairment evaluations and as a result, the Company could be required to write off some or all of this goodwill and other intangible assets, which may adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. In accordance with ASC 350, Intangibles  -  Goodwill and Other, or ASC 350, goodwill is not amortized but is reviewed annually or more frequently for impairment and other intangibles are also reviewed at least annually or more frequently, if certain conditions exist, and may be amortized. Any reduction in or impairment of the value of goodwill or other intangible assets will result in a charge against earnings which could materially adversely affect NRG's reported results of operations and financial position in future periods.. A valuation allowance may be required for NRG's deferred tax assets.. A valuation allowance may need to be recorded against the Company's remaining net deferred tax assets, which are predominantly related to NRG Yield, Inc., that the Company estimates as more likely than not to be unrealizable, based on available evidence including cumulative and forecasted pretax book earnings at the time the estimate is made.  Currently, the Company has recorded a valuation allowance of approximately $1.8 billion against NRG's net deferred tax assets that are not related to NRG Yield, Inc.  A valuation allowance related to deferred tax assets can be affected by changes to tax laws, statutory tax rates and future taxable income levels. In the event that the Company determines that it would not be able to realize all or a portion of its net deferred tax assets in the future, the Company would reduce such amounts accordingly through a charge to income tax expense in the period in which that determination was made, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The Company has made investments, and may continue to make investments, in new business initiatives predominantly focused on consumer products and in markets that may not be successful, may not achieve the intended financial results or may result in product liability and reputational risk that could adversely affect the Company.. NRG continues to pursue growth in its existing businesses and markets and further diversification across the competitive energy value chain. NRG is continuing to pursue investment opportunities in renewables, consumer products and distributed generation.  Such initiatives may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations, inadequate return on capital, and unidentified issues not discovered in the diligence performed prior to launching an initiative or entering a market.. As part of these initiatives, the Company may be liable to customers for any damage caused to customers' homes, facilities, belongings or property during the installation of Company products and systems, such as residential solar systems and mass market back-up generators. In addition, shortages of skilled labor for Company projects could significantly delay a project or otherwise increase its costs.  The products that the Company sells or manufactures may expose the Company to product liability claims relating to personal injury, death, or environmental or property damage, and may require product recalls or other actions. Although the Company maintains liability insurance, the Company cannot be certain that its coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to be available to the Company on economically reasonable terms, or at all.  Further, any product liability claim or damage caused by the Company could significantly impair the Company's brand and reputation, which may result in a failure to maintain customers and achieve the Company's desired growth initiatives in these new businesses.. 51. CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION. This Annual Report on Form 10-K of NRG Energy, Inc., or NRG or the Company, includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or Exchange Act.  The words \"believes,\" \"projects,\" \"anticipates,\" \"plans,\" \"expects,\" \"intends,\" \"estimates\" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.  These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause NRG's actual results, performance and achievements, or industry results, to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.  These factors, risks and uncertainties include the factors described under Item 1A  -  Risk Factors Related to NRG Energy, Inc. and the following:. • NRG's ability to achieve the expected benefits of its Transformation Plan;. • NRG's ability to engage in successful sales and divestitures as well as mergers and acquisitions activity;. • The potential adverse effects of the GenOn Entities' filings under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code and restructuring transactions on NRG's operations, management and employees and the risks associated with operating NRG's business during the restructuring process;. • Risks and uncertainties associated with the GenOn Entities' Chapter 11 Cases including the ability to achieve anticipated benefits therefrom;. • General economic conditions, changes in the wholesale power markets and fluctuations in the cost of fuel;. • Volatile power supply costs and demand for power;. • Changes in law, including judicial decisions;. • Hazards customary to the power production industry and power generation operations such as fuel and electricity price volatility, unusual weather conditions (including wind and solar conditions), catastrophic weather-related or other damage to facilities, unscheduled generation outages, maintenance or repairs, unanticipated changes to fuel supply costs or availability due to higher demand, shortages, transportation problems or other developments, environmental incidents, or electric transmission or gas pipeline system constraints and the possibility that NRG may not have adequate insurance to cover losses as a result of such hazards;. • The effectiveness of NRG's risk management policies and procedures, and the ability of NRG's counterparties to satisfy their financial commitments;. • Counterparties' collateral demands and other factors affecting NRG's liquidity position and financial condition;. • NRG's ability to operate its businesses efficiently and generate earnings and cash flows from its asset-based businesses in relation to its debt and other obligations;. • NRG's ability to enter into contracts to sell power and procure fuel on acceptable terms and prices;. • The liquidity and competitiveness of wholesale markets for energy commodities;. • Government regulation, including changes in market rules, rates, tariffs and environmental laws;. • Price mitigation strategies and other market structures employed by ISOs or RTOs that result in a failure to adequately and fairly compensate NRG's generation units;. • NRG's ability to mitigate forced outage risk for units subject to capacity performance requirements in PJM, performance incentives in ISO-NE, and scarcity pricing in ERCOT;. • NRG's ability to borrow funds and access capital markets, as well as NRG's substantial indebtedness and the possibility that NRG may incur additional indebtedness going forward;. • Operating and financial restrictions placed on NRG and its subsidiaries that are contained in the indentures governing NRG's outstanding notes, in NRG's Senior Credit Facility, and in debt and other agreements of certain of NRG subsidiaries and project affiliates generally;. • Cyber terrorism and inadequate cybersecurity, or the occurrence of a catastrophic loss and the possibility that NRG may not have adequate insurance to cover losses resulting from such hazards or the inability of NRG's insurers to provide coverage;. • NRG's ability to develop and build new power generation facilities;. • NRG's ability to develop and innovate new products as retail and wholesale markets continue to change and evolve;. • NRG's ability to implement its strategy of finding ways to meet the challenges of climate change, clean air and protecting natural resources while taking advantage of business opportunities;. • NRG's ability to increase cash from operations through operational and commercial initiatives, corporate efficiencies, asset strategy, and a range of other programs throughout NRG to reduce costs or generate revenues;. • NRG's ability to sell assets to NRG Yield, Inc. and to close drop-down transactions;. 52. • NRG's ability to achieve its strategy of regularly returning capital to stockholders;. • NRG's ability to obtain and maintain retail market share;. • NRG's ability to successfully evaluate investments and achieve intended financial results in new business and growth initiatives;. • NRG's ability to successfully integrate, realize cost savings and manage any acquired businesses; and. • NRG's ability to develop and maintain successful partnering relationships.. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they were made, and NRG Energy, Inc. undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  The foregoing review of factors that could cause NRG's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in any forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should not be construed as exhaustive."
