[1] "Item 1A.Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below when evaluating our company and when deciding whether to invest in our company. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we do not currently believe are important to an investor may also harm our business operations. If any of the events, contingencies, circumstances or conditions described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition or our results of operations could be seriously harmed. If that happens, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose part or all of the value of any of our shares held by you.. Risks Related to Our Business. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and rapidly changing and we may be unable to compete successfully.. There are a number of companies that develop or may develop products that compete in our targeted markets. The markets for our products and services are characterized by intense competition, evolving industry standards, emerging business and distribution models, disruptive software and hardware technology developments, short product and service life cycles, price sensitivity on the part of customers, and frequent new product introductions, including alternatives with limited functionality available at lower costs or free of charge. Within voice recognition and natural language understanding, we compete primarily with Amazon, Google, iFlyTek and other smaller providers. Within healthcare, we compete primarily with M*Modal, Optum, 3M and other smaller providers. Within imaging, we compete primarily with ABBYY and Adobe. In our enterprise business, some of our partners such as Avaya, Cisco, and Genesys develop and market products that might be considered substitutes for our solutions. In addition, a number of smaller companies in voice recognition, natural language understanding, text input and imaging produce technologies or products that are in some markets competitive with our solutions. Current and potential competitors have established, or may establish, cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the ability of their technologies to address the needs of our prospective customers. Furthermore, there has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for several years. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations.. The competition in these markets could adversely affect our operating results by reducing the volume of the products we license or the prices we can charge. Some of our current or potential competitors, such as 3M, Adobe, Amazon and Google, have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. These competitors may be able to respond more rapidly than we can to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements. They may also devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we do, and in certain cases may be able to include or combine their competitive products or technologies with other of their products or technologies in a manner whereby the competitive functionality. 7. Table of Contents. is available at lower cost or free of charge within the larger offering. To the extent they do so, market acceptance and penetration of our products, and therefore our revenue and bookings, may be adversely affected. Our success will depend substantially upon our ability to enhance our products and technologies and to develop and introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new products and features that meet changing customer requirements and incorporate technological enhancements. If we are unable to develop new products and enhance functionalities or technologies to adapt to these changes, or if we are unable to realize synergies among our acquired products and technologies, our business will suffer.. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period, and this may cause our stock price to decline.. Our revenue, bookings and operating results have fluctuated in the past and are expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. Given these fluctuations, we believe that quarter to quarter comparisons of revenue, bookings and operating results are not necessarily meaningful or an accurate indicator of our future performance. These fluctuations may cause our results of operations to not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, the price of our stock would likely decline. Factors that contribute to fluctuations in operating results include:. • volume, timing and fulfillment of customer orders and receipt of royalty reports;. • the pace of the transition to an on-demand and transactional revenue model;. • slowing sales by our channel partners to their customers;. • customers delaying their purchasing decisions in anticipation of new versions of our products;. • contractual counterparties are unable to, or do not, meet their contractual commitments to us;. • introduction of new products by us or our competitors;. • seasonality in purchasing patterns of our customers;. • reduction in the prices of our products in response to competition, market conditions or contractual obligations;. • returns and allowance charges in excess of accrued amounts;. • timing of significant marketing and sales promotions;. • impairment of goodwill or intangible assets;. • delayed realization of synergies resulting from our acquisitions;. • unforeseen actions taken by hackers or other third parties, such as the Malware Incident we experienced in June 2017;. • accounts receivable that are not collectible and write-offs of excess or obsolete inventory;. • increased expenditures incurred pursuing new product or market opportunities;. • general economic trends as they affect retail and corporate sales; and. • higher than anticipated costs related to fixed-price contracts with our customers.. Due to the foregoing factors, among others, our revenue, bookings and operating results are difficult to forecast. Our expense levels are based in significant part on our expectations of future revenue, and we may not be able to reduce our expenses quickly to respond to a shortfall in projected revenue. Therefore, our failure to meet revenue expectations would seriously harm our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.. A significant portion of our revenue and bookings are derived, and a significant portion of our research and development activities are based, outside the United States. Our results could be harmed by economic, political, regulatory, foreign currency fluctuations and other risks associated with these international regions.. Because we operate worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. We anticipate that revenue and bookings from international operations could increase in the future. Most of our international revenue and bookings are generated by sales in Europe and Asia. In addition, some of our products are developed outside the United States and we have a large number of employees in India that provide transcription services. We also have a large number of employees in Canada, Germany and the United Kingdom that provide professional services. A significant portion of the development of our voice recognition and natural language understanding solutions is conducted in Canada and Germany, and a significant portion of our imaging research and development is conducted in Hungary and Canada. We also have significant research and development resources in Austria, Belgium, China, Italy, and the United Kingdom. In addition, we are exposed to changes in foreign currencies including the euro, British pound, Brazilian real, Canadian dollar, Japanese yen, Indian rupee and Hungarian forint. Changes in. 8. Table of Contents. the value of foreign currencies relative to the value of the U.S. dollar could adversely affect future revenue and operating results. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors associated with international sales and operations, including:. • the impact on local and global economies of the United Kingdom leaving the European Union;. • changes in foreign currency exchange rates or the lack of ability to hedge certain foreign currencies;. • changes in a specific country's or region's economic conditions;. • compliance with laws and regulations in many countries and any subsequent changes in such laws and regulations;. • geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism and war;. • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements imposed by the United States and/or by other countries;. • changes in applicable tax laws;. • difficulties in staffing and managing operations in multiple locations in many countries;. • longer payment cycles of foreign customers and timing of collections in foreign jurisdictions; and. • less effective protection of intellectual property than in the United States.. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our business could be harmed.. If any of our key employees were to leave, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring qualified successors and could experience a loss in productivity while any successor obtains the necessary training and experience. Our employment relationships are generally at-will and we have had key employees leave in the past. We cannot assure you that one or more key employees will not leave in the future. We intend to continue to hire additional highly qualified personnel, including research and development and operational personnel, but may not be able to attract, assimilate or retain qualified personnel in the future. Any failure to attract, integrate, motivate and retain these employees could harm our business.. We experienced a significant malware incident in the third quarter of fiscal 2017, which has a significant impact on our future results of operations and financial condition.. On June 27, 2017, Nuance was a victim of the global NotPetya malware incident (the \"Malware Incident\"). The NotPetya malware affected certain Nuance systems, including systems used by our healthcare customers, primarily for transcription services, as well as systems used by our imaging division to receive and process orders.  Our revenue and our operating results for fiscal year 2017 were negatively impacted by the Malware Incident. For fiscal year 2017, we estimate that we lost approximately $68.0 million in revenues, primarily in our Healthcare segment, due to the service disruption and the reserves we established for customer refund credits. Additionally, we incurred incremental costs of approximately $24.0 million for fiscal year 2017 as a result of our remediation and restoration efforts, as well as incremental amortization expenses.. Our business is subject to a variety of domestic and international laws, rules, policies and other obligations regarding data protection.. We are subject to a complex array of federal, state and international laws relating to the collection, use, retention, disclosure, security and transfer of personally identifiable information and personal health information, with additional laws applicable in some jurisdictions where the information is collected from children. In many cases, these laws apply not only to transfers between unrelated third-parties but also to transfers between us and our subsidiaries. Many jurisdictions have passed laws in this area, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. The European Commission adopted the European General Data Protection Regulation (the \"GDPR\"), which will be in effect as of May 2018.  China adopted a new cybersecurity law as of June 2017, and there is an increase in regulation of biometric data globally, which may include voiceprints.  Complying with the GDPR and other emerging and changing requirements may cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices. Noncompliance could result in penalties or significant legal liability, and could affect our ability to retain and attract customers.. Any failure by us, our customers, suppliers or other parties with whom we do business to comply with our privacy policy or with federal, state or international privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others. Any alleged or actual failure to comply with applicable privacy laws and regulations may:. • cause our customers to lose confidence in our solutions;. • harm our reputation;. 9. Table of Contents. • expose us to litigation and liability; and. • require us to incur significant expenses for remediation.. Security and privacy incidents or breaches may damage client relations and inhibit our growth.. The confidentiality and security of our information, and that of third parties, is critical to our business. Our services involve the transmission, use, and storage of customers' and their customer's confidential information. We were the victim of a cybercrime in the past, and a future security or privacy incident could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. While we maintain a broad array of security and privacy measures, policies and practices, our networks may be breached through a variety of means, resulting in someone obtaining unauthorized access to our information, or that of our customers, or to our intellectual property; disabling or degrading service; or sabotaging systems or information. In addition, hardware, software, or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security.  Unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities, or those of third parties with whom we do business, through fraud or other forms of deceiving our employees, contractors, and vendors. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. We will continue to incur significant costs to continuously enhance our security measures to defend against the threat of cybercrime. Any security or privacy incident or breach may result in:. • loss of revenue resulting from the operational disruption;. • loss of revenue or increased bad debt expense due to the inability to invoice properly;. • loss of revenue due to loss of customers;. • material remediation costs to restore systems;. • material investments in new or enhanced systems in order to enhance our security posture;. • cost of incentives offered to customers to restore confidence and maintain business relationships;. • reputational damage resulting in the failure to retain or attract customers;. • costs associated with potential litigation or governmental investigations;. • costs associated with any required notices of a data breach;. • costs associated with the potential loss of critical business data; and. • other consequences of which we are not currently aware but will discover through the remediation process. For example, as noted elsewhere in these Risk Factors, on June 27, 2017, Nuance was a victim of the global NotPetya Malware Incident, which had a material impact on our results of operations during fiscal year 2017 and is expected to have a material impact on our future results of operations and financial condition.. Interruptions or delays in services could impair the delivery of our services and harm our business. Because our services are complex and incorporate a variety of hardware and proprietary and third-party software, our services may have errors or defects that could result in unanticipated downtime for our customers and harm to our reputation and our business. We have from time to time found defects in our services, and new errors in our services may be detected in the future.  As we acquire companies, we may encounter difficulty in incorporating the acquired services or technologies into our services. Any damage to, or failure of, the systems that serve our customers in whole or in part could result in interruptions in our service. Interruptions in our service may reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits or pay service level agreement penalties, cause customers to terminate their on-demand services, and adversely affect our renewal rates and our ability to attract new customers.. Interruptions or delays in service from data center hosting facilities could impair the delivery of our services and harm our business.. We currently serve our customers from our, third-party, data center hosting facilities, and third-party public cloud facilities. Any damage to, or failure of, the systems that serve our customers in whole or in part could result in interruptions in our service. Interruptions in our service may reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits or pay service level agreement penalties, cause customers to terminate their on-demand services and adversely affect our renewal rates and our ability to attract new customers.. 10. Table of Contents. As part of our business strategy, we acquire other businesses and technologies, and our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions will depend on successfully integrating the acquired businesses.. As part of our business strategy, we have in the past acquired, and expect to continue to acquire, other businesses and technologies. Our prior acquisitions required, and our recently completed acquisitions continue to require, substantial integration and management efforts, and we expect future acquisitions to require similar efforts. Successfully realizing the benefits of acquisitions involves a number of risks, including:. • difficulty in transitioning and integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses;. • potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management;. • difficulty in incorporating acquired products and technologies into our products and technologies;. • potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development;. • unanticipated expenses and delays in completing acquired development projects and technology integration and upgrades;. • challenges associated with managing additional, geographically remote businesses;. • impairment of relationships with partners and customers;. • assumption of unknown material liabilities of acquired companies;. • accurate projection of revenue and bookings plans of the acquired entity in the due diligence process;. • customers delaying purchases of our products pending resolution of product integration between our existing and our newly acquired products;. • entering markets or types of businesses in which we have limited experience; and. • potential loss of key employees of the acquired business.. As a result of these and other risks, if we are unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses, we may not realize the anticipated benefits from our acquisitions. Any failure to achieve these benefits or failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies could seriously harm our business.. Charges to earnings as a result of our acquisitions may adversely affect our operating results in the foreseeable future, which could have a material and adverse effect on the market value of our common stock.. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, we record the market value of our common stock and other forms of consideration issued in connection with an acquisition as the cost of acquiring the company or business. We allocate that cost to the individual assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including various identifiable intangible assets such as acquired technology, acquired trade names and acquired customer relationships, based on their respective fair values. Our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but are inherently uncertain. After we complete an acquisition, the following factors could result in material charges and may adversely affect our operating results and cash flows:. • costs incurred to combine the operations of businesses we acquire, such as transitional employee expenses and employee retention, redeployment or relocation expenses;. • impairment of goodwill or intangible assets;. • amortization of intangible assets acquired;. • a reduction in the useful lives of intangible assets acquired;. • identification of or changes to assumed contingent liabilities, both income tax and non-income tax related, after our final determination of the amounts for these contingencies or the conclusion of the measurement period (generally up to one year from the acquisition date), whichever comes first;. • charges to our operating results to eliminate certain duplicative pre-merger activities, to restructure our operations or to reduce our cost structure;. • charges to our operating results resulting from expenses incurred to effect the acquisition; and. • charges to our operating results due to the expensing of certain stock awards assumed in an acquisition.. Intangible assets are generally amortized over three to ten years. Goodwill is not subject to amortization but is subject to an impairment analysis, at least annually, which may result in an impairment charge if the carrying value exceeds its implied fair value. As of September 30, 2017, we had identified intangible assets of approximately $0.7 billion, net of accumulated. 11. Table of Contents. amortization, and goodwill of approximately $3.6 billion. In addition, purchase accounting limits our ability to recognize certain revenue that otherwise would have been recognized by the acquired company as an independent business. As a result, the combined company may delay revenue recognition or recognize less revenue than we and the acquired company would have recognized as independent companies.. We have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions, which could dilute our existing stockholders and/or increase our debt levels.. In connection with past acquisitions, we issued a substantial number of shares of our common stock as transaction consideration, including contingent consideration, and incurred a significant amount of debt to finance the cash consideration used for our acquisitions. We may continue to issue equity securities for future acquisitions, which would dilute existing stockholders, perhaps significantly, depending on the terms of such acquisitions. We may also incur additional debt in connection with future acquisitions, which, if available at all, may place additional restrictions on our ability to operate our business.. Our strategy to increase cloud services, term licensing and transaction-based recurring revenue may adversely affect our near-term revenue growth and results of operations.. Our ongoing shift from a perpetual software license model to cloud services, term licensing and transaction-based recurring revenue models will create a recurring revenue stream that is more predictable. The transition, however, creates risks related to the timing of revenue recognition. We also incur certain expenses associated with the infrastructures and selling efforts of our hosting offerings in advance of our ability to recognize the revenues associated with these offerings, which may adversely affect our near-term reported revenues, results of operations and cash flows. A decline in renewals of recurring revenue offerings in any period may not be immediately reflected in our results for that period but may result in a decline in our revenue and results of operations in future quarters.. We have a history of operating losses, and may incur losses in the future, which may require us to raise additional capital on unfavorable terms.. We reported net losses of $151.0 million, $12.5 million and $115.0 million in fiscal years 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and have a total accumulated deficit of $580.0 million as of September 30, 2017. If we are unable to return to profitability, the market price for our stock may decline, perhaps substantially. We cannot assure you that our revenue or bookings will grow or that we will return to profitability in the future. If we do not achieve profitability, we may be required to raise additional capital to maintain or grow our operations. Additional capital, if available at all, may be highly dilutive to existing investors or contain other unfavorable terms, such as a high interest rate and restrictive covenants.. If our efforts to execute our formal transformation program are not successful, our business could be harmed.. We have been executing a formal transformation program to focus our product investments on our growth opportunities, increase our operating efficiencies, reduce costs, and further enhance shareholder value through share buybacks. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in executing this transformation program or be able to fully realize the anticipated benefits of this program, within the expected timeframes, or at all. Additionally, if we are not successful in strategically aligning our product portfolio, we may not be able to achieve the anticipated benefits of this program. A failure to successfully reduce and re-align our costs could have an adverse effect on our revenue and on our expenses and profitability. As a result, our financial results may not meet our or the expectations of securities analysts or investors in the future and our business could be harmed.. Tax matters may cause significant variability in our financial results.. Our businesses are subject to income taxation in the United States, as well as in many tax jurisdictions throughout the world. Tax rates in these jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. If our effective tax rate increases, our operating results and cash flow could be adversely affected. Our effective income tax rate can vary significantly between periods due to a number of complex factors including:. • projected levels of taxable income;. • pre-tax income being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory rates or higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory rates;. • increases or decreases to valuation allowances recorded against deferred tax assets;. • tax audits conducted and settled by various tax authorities;. 12. Table of Contents. • adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of income tax returns;. • the ability to claim foreign tax credits;. • the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for income taxes; and. • changes in tax laws and their interpretations in countries in which we are subject to taxation.. During 2014, Ireland enacted changes to the taxation of certain Irish incorporated companies effective as of January 2021. On October 5, 2015, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development released the Final Reports for its Action Plan on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting. The implementation of one or more of these reports in jurisdictions in which we operate, together with the 2014 enactment by Ireland, could result in an increase to our effective tax rate.. The failure to successfully maintain the adequacy of our system of internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse impact on our ability to report our financial results in an accurate and timely manner.. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we were required to develop and are required to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements. In addition, our management is required to assess and certify the adequacy of our controls on a quarterly basis, and our independent auditors must attest and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis. Any failure in the effectiveness of our system of internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse impact on our ability to report our financial statements in an accurate and timely manner. Inaccurate and/or untimely financial statements could subject us to regulatory actions, civil or criminal penalties, shareholder litigation, or loss of customer confidence, which could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace and ultimately could negatively impact our stock price due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements.. Impairment of our intangible assets could result in significant charges that would adversely impact our future operating results.. We have significant intangible assets, including goodwill and intangibles with indefinite lives, which are susceptible to valuation adjustments as a result of changes in various factors or conditions. The most significant intangible assets are customer relationships, patents and core technology, completed technology and trademarks. Customer relationships are amortized on an accelerated basis based upon the pattern in which the economic benefits of customer relationships are being utilized. Other identifiable intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. We assess the potential impairment of intangible assets on an annual basis, as well as whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that could trigger an impairment of such assets include the following:. • significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results;. • significant changes in the manner of or use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business;. • significant negative industry or economic trends;. • significant decline in our stock price for a sustained period;. • changes in our organization or management reporting structure that could result in additional reporting units, which may require alternative methods of estimating fair values or greater disaggregation or aggregation in our analysis by reporting unit; and. • our market capitalization declining to below net book value.. Future adverse changes in these or other unforeseeable factors could result in an impairment charge that would impact our results of operations and financial position in the reporting period identified.. Our sales to government clients subject us to risks, including early termination, audits, investigations, sanctions and penalties.. We derive a portion of our revenues and bookings from contracts with the United States government, as well as various state and local governments, and their respective agencies. Government contracts are generally subject to oversight, including audits and investigations which could identify violations of these agreements. Government contract violations could result in a range of consequences including, but not limited to, contract price adjustments, civil and criminal penalties, contract termination, forfeiture of profit and/or suspension of payment, and suspension or debarment from future government contracts. We could also suffer serious harm to our reputation if we were found to have violated the terms of our government contracts.. 13. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property and Technology. Third parties have claimed and may claim in the future that we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could be exposed to significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling our products if such claims are successful.. From time to time, we are subject to claims and law actions alleging that we or our customers may be infringing or contributing to the infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. We may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technologies and products. If it appears necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses for these intellectual property rights. However, we may not be able to obtain licenses from some or all claimants, the terms of any offered licenses may not be acceptable to us, and we may not be able to resolve disputes without litigation. Any litigation regarding intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. Intellectual property disputes could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to enter into royalty and licensing arrangements on unfavorable terms, prevent us from manufacturing or licensing certain of our products, cause severe disruptions to our operations or the markets in which we compete, or require us to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers including contractual provisions under various arrangements. Any of these could seriously harm our business.. Unauthorized use of our proprietary technology and intellectual property could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our success and competitive position depend in large part on our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property rights protecting our products and services. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or discover aspects of our products or to obtain, license, sell or otherwise use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult and we may not be able to protect our technology from unauthorized use. Additionally, our competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially the same or superior to our technologies and that do not infringe our rights. In these cases, we would be unable to prevent our competitors from selling or licensing these similar or superior technologies. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Although the source code for our proprietary software is protected both as a trade secret and as a copyrighted work, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Litigation, regardless of the outcome, can be very expensive and can divert management efforts.. Our software products may have bugs, which could result in delayed or lost revenue and bookings, expensive correction, liability to our customers and claims against us.. Complex software products such as ours may contain errors, defects or bugs. Defects in the solutions or products that we develop and sell to our customers could require expensive corrections and result in delayed or lost revenue and bookings, adverse customer reaction and negative publicity about us or our products and services. Customers who are not satisfied with any of our products may also bring claims against us for damages, which, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming to defend, and could result in costly litigation and payment of damages. Such claims could harm our reputation, financial results and competitive position.. Risks Related to our Corporate Structure, Organization and Common Stock. Our debt agreements contain covenant restrictions that may limit our ability to operate our business.. Our debt agreements contain, and any of our other future debt agreements or arrangements may contain, covenant restrictions that limit our ability to operate our business, including restrictions on our ability to:. • incur additional debt or issue guarantees;. • create liens;. • make certain investments;. • enter into transactions with our affiliates;. • sell certain assets;. • repurchase capital stock or make other restricted payments;. • declare or pay dividends or make other distributions to stockholders; and. 14. Table of Contents. • merge or consolidate with any entity.. Our ability to comply with these limitations is dependent on our future performance, which will be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including prevailing economic conditions. As a result of these limitations, our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be significantly restricted, and we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us. In addition, our failure to comply with our debt covenants could result in a default under our debt agreements, which could permit the holders to accelerate our obligation to repay the debt. If any of our debt is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available to repay the accelerated debt.. Our significant debt could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our credit facility and our convertible debentures.. We have a significant amount of debt. As of September 30, 2017, we had $2,918.1 million outstanding principal of debt, including $450.0 million of senior note due in 2020, $300.0 million of senior note due in 2024, and $500.0 million of senior note due in 2026, $377.7 million of 2.75% 2031 Debentures redeemable in November 2017, $263.9 million of 1.5% 2035 Debentures redeemable in November 2021, $676.5 million of 1.0% 2035 Debentures redeemable in December 2022, and $350.0 million of 1.25% 2025 Debentures redeemable in April 2025. Investors may require us to redeem these debentures earlier than the dates indicated if the closing sale price of our common stock is more than 130% of the then current conversion price of the respective debentures for certain specified periods. If a holder elects to convert, we will be required to pay the principal amount in cash and any amounts payable in excess of the principal amount in cash or shares of our common stock, at our election. For example, on November 1, 2017, holders of $331.2 million of our 2.75% 2031 Debentures exercised their rights to require us to repurchase such debentures. We also had a $242.5 million Revolving Credit Facility under which $4.5 million was committed to backing outstanding letters of credit issued and $238.0 million was available for borrowing at September 30, 2017. Our debt level could have important consequences, for example it could:. • require us to use a large portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on debt, including the convertible debentures and the credit facility, which will reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development, exploiting business opportunities, and other business activities;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and. • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants related to our debt, our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets or pay cash dividends.. Our ability to meet our payment and other obligations under our debt instruments depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow in the future. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that additional capital will be available to us, in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our payment obligations under the convertible debentures and our other debt and to fund other liquidity needs. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, including the convertible debentures, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may not be able to meet our payment obligations under the convertible debentures and our other debt.. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations, and this may make it difficult for you to resell the common stock when you want or at prices you find attractive.. Our stock price historically has been, and may continue to be, volatile. Various factors contribute to the volatility of our stock price, including, for example, quarterly variations in our financial results, new product introductions by us or our competitors and general economic and market conditions. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by our largest stockholders, or the perception that such sales could occur, could also contribute to the volatility or our stock price. While we cannot predict the individual effect that any of these factors may have on the market price of our common stock, these factors, either individually or in the aggregate, could result in significant volatility in our stock price. Moreover, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock often are subject to securities class action litigation. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources.. 15. Table of Contents. Current uncertainty in the global financial markets and the global economy may negatively affect the value of our investment portfolio.. Our investment portfolios, which include investments in money market funds, bank deposits and separately managed investment portfolios, are generally subject to credit, liquidity, counterparty, market and interest rate risks that may be exacerbated by a global financial crisis or by uncertainty surrounding the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union. If the banking system or the fixed income, credit or equity markets deteriorate or remain volatile, our investment portfolio may be impacted and the values and liquidity of our investments could be adversely affected.. Future issuances of our common stock could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and our ability to raise funds in new stock offerings.. Future issuances of substantial amounts of our common stock, whether in the public market or through private placements, including issuances in connection with acquisition activities, or the perception that such issuances could occur, could adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. In connection with past acquisitions, we issued a substantial number of shares of our common stock as transaction consideration or contingent consideration. We may continue to issue equity securities for future acquisitions, which would dilute existing stockholders, perhaps significantly depending on the terms of such acquisitions. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of common stock, or the availability of shares of common stock for future sale, will have on the trading price of our common stock.. Our business could be negatively affected by the actions of activist stockholders.. Responding to actions by activist stockholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupting our operations and diverting the attention of management and our employees. Furthermore, any perceived uncertainties as to our future direction could result in the loss of potential business opportunities, and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners."
