[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before making a decision to invest in our Class A common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that affect our business. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects could be materially harmed. In that event, the price of our Class A common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. We have a history of losses and we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability in the future.. We have incurred net losses in all periods since our inception and we expect that we will continue to incur net losses for the foreseeable future. We experienced net losses of $108.2 million, $379.6 million and $297.2 million for fiscal 2016, fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2018, respectively. As of July 31, 2018, we had an accumulated deficit of $1,028.1 million. In addition to the investments we expect to continue to make to grow our business, we also incur and expect to continue incurring significant additional legal, accounting and other expenses as a public company. If we fail to increase our revenue and manage our expenses, we may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future.. The markets in which we compete are rapidly evolving, which make it difficult to forecast end customer adoption rates and demand for our solutions.. The markets in which we compete are rapidly evolving. Accordingly, our future financial performance will depend in large part on the allocation of spending in traditional IT markets and on our ability to adapt to new market demands. Currently, sales of our solutions are dependent in large part upon replacement of spending in traditional markets, including x86 servers, storage systems and virtualization software. In addition, as we develop new solutions designed to address new market demands, such as Nutanix Xi Cloud Services, sales of our solutions will in part be dependent on capturing new spending in these markets, including hybrid cloud services. If these markets experience a shift in customer demand, or if customers in these markets focus their new spending on, or shift their existing spending to, public cloud solutions more quickly or more extensively than expected, our solutions may not compete as effectively, if at all. It is also difficult to predict end customer demand or adoption rates for our solutions or the future growth of our market.. If end customers do not adopt our solutions, our ability to grow our business and operating results may be adversely affected.. Traditional IT infrastructure architecture is entrenched in the datacenters of many of our end customers because of their historical financial investment in existing IT infrastructure architecture and the existing knowledge base and skillsets of IT administrators. As a result, our sales efforts often involve extensive efforts to educate our end customers as to the benefits and capabilities of our web-scale architecture solutions, particularly as we continue to pursue large organizations as end customers. If we fail to achieve market acceptance of our solutions, our ability to grow our business and our operating results will be adversely affected.. A shift in our relationships with our OEM partners could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our relationships with our original equipment manufacturer (\"OEM\") partners continue to shift as industry dynamics change, and our OEM partners may be less willing to partner with us as an OEM or otherwise as such shifts occur. For example, Dell Technologies (\"Dell\") is not just an OEM partner, but also a competitor of ours, and accounted for 13%, 11% and 8% of our total billings in fiscal 2016, fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2018, respectively. In September 2016, EMC Corporation (\"EMC\"), was acquired by Dell. As a result of the acquisition, Dell may be more likely to promote and sell its own solutions, including those from EMC's complementary product portfolio, over our products, or cease selling or promoting our products entirely. Also, Dell holds a majority of outstanding voting power in VMware Inc. (\"VMware\") and could combine the Dell, EMC and VMware product portfolios into unified offerings optimized for their platforms. If Dell decides to sell its own solutions over our products, that could adversely impact our OEM sales and harm our business, operating results and prospects, and our stock price could decline.. 7. Table of Contents. Further, since OEM sales, including sales made by Dell, are generally recognized upon delivery under Accounting Standards Update 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (\"ASC 606\"), which we adopted as of August 1, 2017, any reduction in OEM sales by any of our OEM partners will have an increased impact on our reported revenue and gross margins in future periods, potentially making it more difficult for us to forecast revenue and gross margins in future quarters. Under ASC 606, revenue from Dell accounted for approximately 11%, 10% and 9% of our total revenue in fiscal 2016, fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2018, respectively.. Our financial performance, including revenue growth, in recent periods may not be indicative of our future performance.. We have experienced significant revenue growth in recent periods, with total revenue of $503.4 million, $845.9 million, and $1,155.5 million for fiscal 2016, fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2018, respectively. While we have recently experienced significant revenue growth, you should not consider such revenue growth as indicative of our future performance and we may not achieve similar revenue growth in future periods.. In addition, we are in the process of transitioning our business to focus on more software-only transactions and expect to transition toward a subscription-based model in the longer term. Software-only sales typically reflect higher gross margins and lower revenue in a given period, as compared to software sales deployed on off-the-shelf servers, since the sale does not include the revenue or cost of the hardware components in an appliance. As we transition to more software-only transactions, we anticipate that, unless we can replace the hardware revenue with additional software sales, our revenue growth will slow during the transition period, our gross margins may fluctuate and our operating results may be adversely impacted.. Further, as we transition more of our business toward a subscription-based model, our revenue may be impacted in the short term. The revenue associated with certain subscription purchases, such as with Nutanix Xi Cloud Services, will be recognized over the term of the subscription resulting in less upfront revenue as compared to our historical software-only transactions.  Also, the revenue we recognize from subscription sales, even if recognized upfront, may in some instances have a lower total dollar value than those associated with licenses for the life of the device because they may be of a shorter term than the life of the device. This may also make it difficult to rapidly increase our revenue in any period through additional sales.. Our success also depends heavily on the ability of our sales team to adjust their strategy to focus on software-only and subscription-based sales. Furthermore, our customers may not understand these changes to our product sales, and investors, industry and financial analysts may have difficulty understanding the changes to our business model, resulting in changes in financial estimates or failure to meet investor expectations. As our business changes, the transition may make it more difficult to accurately project our operating results or plan for future growth. Accordingly, you should not rely on our revenue growth for any prior periods as an indication of our future revenue or revenue growth.. We have experienced rapid growth in recent periods and we may not be able to sustain or manage any future growth effectively.. We have expanded our overall business and operations significantly in recent periods. Our employee headcount increased significantly since our inception, and we may have significant headcount increases in the future. We anticipate that our operating expenses will increase in the foreseeable future as we scale our business, including in developing and improving our solutions, expanding our sales and marketing capabilities and global coverage, and in providing general and administrative resources to support our growth. As we continue to rapidly grow our business, we must effectively integrate, develop and motivate a large number of new employees, as well as existing employees who are promoted or moved into new roles, while maintaining the effectiveness of our business execution. In particular, our success depends heavily on our ability to ramp new sales teams in a fast and effective manner. We must also continue to improve and expand our IT and financial infrastructure, management systems and product management and sales processes. We expect that our future growth will continue to place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. We may incur costs associated with future growth prior to realizing the anticipated benefits, and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly than we expect. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities. We also may fail to satisfy end customers' requirements, maintain product quality, execute on our business plan or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects.. 8. Table of Contents. We believe our long-term value as a company will be greater if we focus on growth, which may negatively impact our profitability in the near term.. Part of our business strategy is to primarily focus on our long-term growth. As a result, our profitability may be lower in the near term than it would be if our strategy was to maximize short-term profitability. Expenditures related to expanding our research and development efforts, sales and market efforts, infrastructure and other such investments may not ultimately grow our business or cause long-term profitability. If we are ultimately unable to achieve profitability at the level anticipated by analysts and our stockholders, our stock price may decline.. The enterprise IT market is rapidly changing and expanding, and we expect competition to continue to intensify in the future from both established competitors and new market entrants.. We operate in the intensely competitive enterprise infrastructure market and compete primarily with companies that sell software to build and operate enterprise clouds, integrated systems, and standalone storage and servers, as well as providers of public cloud infrastructure solutions. These markets are characterized by constant change and rapid innovation. Our main competitors fall into the following categories:. • software providers, such as Red Hat, Inc. and VMware, that offer a broad range of virtualization, infrastructure and management products to build and operate enterprise clouds;. • traditional IT systems vendors, such as Cisco Systems, Inc. (\"Cisco\"), Dell, Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company (\"HPE\"), Hitachi Data Systems Corporation (\"Hitachi\"), International Business Machines Corporation (\"IBM\"), and Lenovo Group Ltd., that offer integrated systems that include bundles of servers, storage and networking solutions, as well as a broad range of standalone server and storage products;. • traditional storage array vendors, such as Dell, Hitachi and NetApp, Inc. (\"NetApp\"), which typically sell centralized storage products; and. • providers of public cloud infrastructure, such as Amazon.com, Inc. (\"Amazon\"), Google Inc. and Microsoft Corporation.. In addition, we compete against vendors of hyperconverged infrastructure and software-defined storage products, such as Cisco, HPE, Dell, VMware, and many smaller emerging companies. As our market grows, we expect it will continue to attract new companies as well as existing larger vendors. For example, NetApp recently released its first hyperconverged solution. Some of our competitors may expand their product offerings, acquire competing businesses, sell at lower prices, bundle with other products, provide closed technology platforms, partner with other companies to develop joint solutions, or otherwise attempt to gain a competitive advantage. For example, HPE acquired SimpliVity Corporation and Cisco acquired Springpath, Inc., both of which were emerging hyperconverged vendors, in order to bolster their own hyperconverged product lines. VMWare and Amazon also announced a partnership to offer a joint solution that may directly compete with our products. Furthermore, as we expand our product offerings, we may expand into new markets and we may encounter additional competitors in such markets. Additionally, as companies increasingly offer competing solutions, they may be less willing to partner with us as an OEM or otherwise.. 9. Table of Contents. Many of our existing competitors have, and some of our potential competitors may have, competitive advantages over us, such as longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing or other resources, stronger brand awareness and name recognition, larger intellectual property portfolios and broader global presence and distribution networks. Furthermore, some of our competitors supply a wide variety of products to, and have well-established relationships with, our current and prospective end customers. Some of these competitors have in the past and may in the future take advantage of their existing relationships with end customers, distributors or resellers to provide incentives to such current or prospective end customers that make their products more economically attractive or to interfere with our ability to offer our solutions to our end customers. Our competitors may also be able to offer products or functionality similar to ours at a more attractive price, such as by integrating or bundling their solutions with their other product offerings or those of technology partners or establishing cooperative relationships with other competitors, technology partners or other third parties. Potential end customers may prefer to purchase from their existing suppliers rather than a new supplier, especially given the significant investments that they have historically made in their legacy infrastructures. Some of our competitors may also have stronger or broader relationships with technology partners than we do, which could make their products more attractive than ours. As a result, we cannot assure you that our solutions will compete favorably, and any failure to do so could adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects.. Our relatively limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and prospects, and may increase the risk of your investment.. We began selling our products in October 2011. We have relatively limited historical financial data, and we operate in a rapidly evolving market. Our relatively limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and our future prospects, including our ability to plan for and model future growth. Furthermore, we are in the process of transitioning our business to focus on more software-only transactions in the near term, and shift to a software as a service and software as a subscription model in the longer-term, which may make it more difficult to project our business growth and margins. In addition, the rapidly evolving nature of the enterprise IT infrastructure market, as well as other factors beyond our control, reduces our ability to accurately forecast quarterly or annual performance. Our solutions may never reach widespread adoption, and changes or advances in technologies could adversely affect the demand for our solutions. A reduction in demand for web-scale architectures caused by lack of customer acceptance, technological challenges, competing technologies and solutions or otherwise would result in lower revenue growth rates or decreased revenue, either of which could negatively impact our business, operating results and prospects. Any predictions about future revenue and expenses may not be as accurate as they would be if we had a longer operating history. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties associated with rapid growth and expansion and a relatively limited operating history. If we do not address these risks successfully, our business and operating results would be adversely affected, and our stock price could decline.. Developments or improvements in enterprise IT infrastructure technologies may materially and adversely affect the demand for our solutions.. Significant developments in enterprise IT infrastructure technologies, such as advances in storage, virtualization, containers, management software and public cloud and hybrid cloud infrastructure solutions, may materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects in ways we do not currently anticipate. For example, improvements in hybrid cloud technologies, such as improvements in orchestration and automation tools, could emerge as a preferred alternative to our solutions, especially if they are introduced to the market before ours are. Any failure by us to develop new or enhanced technologies or processes, to react to changes or advances in existing technologies or to correctly anticipate these changes or advances as we create and invest in our product roadmap could materially delay our development and introduction of new solutions, which could result in the loss of competitiveness of our solutions, decreased revenue and a loss of market share to competitors. In addition, public cloud infrastructure offers alternatives to the on-premise infrastructure deployments that our platform currently supports. Various factors could cause the rate of adoption of public cloud infrastructure to increase, including continued or accelerated decreases in the price of public cloud offerings and improvements in the ability of public cloud providers to deliver reliable performance, enhanced security, better application compatibility and more precise infrastructure control. Any of these factors could make our platform less competitive as compared to the public cloud, and could materially and adversely affect the demand for our solutions.. 10. Table of Contents. If other IT vendors do not cooperate with us to ensure that our solutions interoperate with their products, including by providing us with early access to their new products or information about their new products, our product development efforts may be delayed or impaired, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects.. Our solutions provide a platform on which software applications and hypervisors from different software providers run. As a result, our solutions must interoperate with our end customers' existing hardware and software infrastructure, specifically their networks, servers, software and operating systems, as well as the applications that they run on this infrastructure, which may be manufactured and provided by a wide variety of vendors and OEMs. In addition to ensuring that our solutions interoperate with these hardware and software products initially, we must occasionally update our software to ensure that our solutions continue to interoperate with new or updated versions of these hardware and software products. Current or future providers of hardware, software applications, hypervisors or data management tools could make changes that would diminish the ability of our solutions to interoperate with them, and significant additional time and effort may be necessary to ensure the continued compatibility of our solutions, which might not be possible at all. Even if our solutions are compatible with those of other providers, if they do not certify or support our solutions for their systems or cooperate with us to coordinate troubleshooting and hand off of support cases, end customers may be reluctant to buy our solutions, which could decrease demand for our solutions and harm our ability to achieve a return on the investments and resources that we have dedicated to ensuring compatibility. Developing solutions that interoperate properly requires substantial partnering, capital investment and employee resources, as well as the cooperation of the vendors or developers of the software applications and hypervisors both with respect to product development and product support. Vendors may not provide us with early or any access to their technology and products, assist us in these development efforts, certify our solutions, share with or sell to us any APIs, formats, or protocols we may need, or cooperate with us to support end customers. If they do not provide us with the necessary access, assistance or proprietary technology on a timely basis or at all, we may experience product development delays or be unable to ensure the compatibility of our solutions with such new technology or products. To the extent that vendors develop products that compete with ours, they have in the past, and may again in the future, withhold their cooperation, decline to share access, certify our solutions or sell or make available to us their proprietary APIs, protocols or formats or engage in practices to actively limit the functionality, or compatibility, and certification of our products. If any of the foregoing occurs, our product development efforts may be delayed or impaired, our solutions could become less attractive to end customers resulting in a decline in sales, and our business, operating results and prospects may be adversely affected.. If we fail to successfully execute on our planned transition to selling more cloud services which will be sold on a subscription-basis, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. We are beginning to transition portions of our business from on-premise products generating revenue through software licenses based on the life of the device, to selling our products and services as cloud-based offerings on a subscription business model. This shift requires a considerable investment of technical, financial, legal and sales resources and will continue to divert resources and increase costs, especially in cost of license and other revenues, in any given period.  We also intend to make investments in the supporting infrastructure for such cloud-based offerings and may not recoup the costs of such investments.  Such investments of resources may also not improve our long-term growth and results of operations. Further, the increase in some costs associated with our cloud services may be difficult to predict over time, especially in light of our lack of historical experience with the costs of delivering cloud-based versions of our applications.. We believe a subscription-based revenue model has certain advantages over our current business model, including better predictability of revenue; however, it also presents a number of risks to us including the following:. • arrangements entered into on a subscription basis generally delay when we can recognize revenue and can require up-front costs, which may be significant;. • since revenue is recognized over the term of the customer agreement, any decrease in customer purchases of our subscription-based products and services will not be fully reflected in our operating results until future periods. This will also make it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional subscription sales in any one period;. • subscription-based revenue arrangements are under short-term agreements. Accordingly, our customers generally have no long-term obligation to us and may cancel their subscription at any time, even if our customers are satisfied with our subscription products;. 11. Table of Contents. • customers in a subscription arrangement may elect not to renew their contract upon expiration, or they may attempt to renegotiate pricing or other contractual terms at the point of, or prior to, renewal on terms that are less favorable to us;. • investors, industry and financial analysts may have difficulty understanding the shift in our business model, resulting in changes in financial estimates or failure to meet investor expectations; and. • there is no assurance that the solutions we offer on a subscription basis, including new revenue models or new products that we may introduce, will receive broad marketplace acceptance.. If we fail to develop or introduce new or enhanced solutions on a timely or cost-effective basis, our ability to attract and retain end customers could be impaired and our competitive position could be harmed.. We operate in a dynamic environment characterized by rapidly changing technologies and industry standards and technological obsolescence. We will need to continue to create valuable software solutions and integrate these solutions across hardware platforms. To compete successfully, we must design, develop, market and sell new or enhanced solutions that provide increasingly higher levels of performance, capacity, scalability, security, application mobility, and reliability and meet the cost expectations of our end customers. The introduction of new products by our competitors, the market acceptance of products based on new or alternative technologies, or the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing or future solutions obsolete or less attractive to end customers. Any failure to anticipate or develop new or enhanced solutions or technologies in a timely or cost-effective manner in response to technological shifts could result in decreased revenue and harm to our business and prospects. Any new feature or application that we develop or acquire may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner and may not achieve broad market acceptance and investments in research and development or efforts to optimize our engineering cost structure may not be successful. If we fail to introduce new or enhanced solutions that meet the needs of our end customers or penetrate new markets in a timely fashion, we will lose market share and our business, operating results and prospects will be adversely affected.. If we are not successful in executing our strategy to increase sales of our solutions to new and existing large organizations, service providers, and government entities, our operating results may suffer.. Our growth strategy is dependent in large part upon increasing sales of our solutions to new and existing large enterprises, service providers and government entities, particularly when such sales result in large orders for our solutions. Sales to these end customers involve risks that may not be present, or that are present to a lesser extent, with sales to smaller end customers, which can act as a disincentive to our sales team to pursue these larger end customers. These risks include:. • competition from companies that traditionally target larger enterprises, service providers and government entities and that may have pre-existing relationships or purchase commitments from such end customers;. • increased purchasing power and leverage held by large end customers in negotiating contractual arrangements with us;. • more stringent requirements in our support service contracts, including demand for quicker support response times and penalties for any failure to meet support requirements; and. • longer sales cycles and the associated risk that substantial time and resources may be spent on a potential end customer that elects not to purchase our solutions.. 12. Table of Contents. Large organizations often undertake a significant evaluation process that results in a lengthy sales cycle. Although we have a channel sales model, our sales representatives typically engage in direct interaction with our prospective end customers as well as our distributors and resellers. We typically provide evaluation products to these end customers and may spend substantial time, effort and money in our sales efforts to these prospective end customers. In addition, product purchases by large organizations are frequently subject to budget constraints, multiple approvals and unanticipated administrative, processing and other delays. Finally, large organizations typically have longer implementation cycles, require greater product functionality and scalability, require a broader range of services, demand that vendors take on a larger share of risks, require acceptance provisions that can lead to a delay in revenue recognition and expect greater payment flexibility. If we fail to realize an expected sale from a large end customer in a particular quarter or at all, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. All of these factors can add further risk to business conducted with these end customers.. Our growth depends on our existing end customers making additional purchases of software licenses and software upgrades and renewing and upgrading their support and entitlement agreements, and the failure of our end customers to do so could harm our business and operating results.. Our future success depends in part on purchases by our existing end customers of additional software licenses and appliances as well as renewals and upgrades to their support and entitlement agreements. If our end customers do not purchase additional software licenses or appliances or software upgrades, or renew or upgrade their support and entitlement agreements, our revenue may decline and our operating results may be harmed. In order for us to maintain or improve our operating results, we depend on our existing end customers renewing support and entitlement agreements or purchasing additional appliances. End customers may choose not to renew their support and entitlement agreements or purchase additional appliances because of several factors, including dissatisfaction with our prices or features relative to competitive offerings, reductions in our end customers' spending levels or other causes outside of our control. If our existing end customers do not purchase new solutions, or renew or upgrade their support and entitlement agreements, our revenue may grow more slowly than expected or may decline, and our business and operating results may be adversely affected.. We rely on our key personnel, and our Chief Executive Officer in particular, to grow our business, and the loss of one or more such key employees or the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business.. Our success and future growth depends to a significant degree on the skills and continued services of our executive officers and key personnel. In particular, we are highly dependent on the services of Dheeraj Pandey, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, who is critical to the development of our technology, future vision and strategic direction. We do not have life insurance policies that cover any of our executive officers or other key employees. The loss of the services of Mr. Pandey or any of our key employees or executive officers could disrupt our business and negatively impact our operating results, prospects and future growth. Our future success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, integrate and retain highly skilled personnel, especially skilled sales and engineering employees. Competition for highly skilled personnel is frequently intense, especially in the San Francisco Bay Area, where we are headquartered. Volatility or lack of performance in our stock price may also affect our ability to attract and retain our key employees. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully attract or retain qualified personnel. Our inability to attract and retain the necessary personnel could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. 13. Table of Contents. If we do not effectively expand and train our sales force, we may be unable to add new end customers or increase sales to our existing end customers and our business will be adversely affected.. Although we have a channel sales model, our sales representatives typically engage in direct interaction with our prospective end customers. Therefore, we continue to be substantially dependent on our sales force to obtain new end customers and sell additional solutions to our existing end customers. There is significant competition for sales personnel with the skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining sufficient numbers of sales personnel to support our growth. New hires require significant training and may take significant time before they achieve full productivity; we estimate based on past experience that sales team members typically do not fully ramp and are not fully productive until around the time of the start of their fourth quarter of employment with us. Our recent hires and planned hires may not become productive as quickly as we expect, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the markets where we do business or plan to do business. Furthermore, hiring sales personnel in new countries requires additional set up, upfront and ongoing costs that we may not recover if the sales personnel fail to achieve full productivity. In addition, as a result of our rapid growth, a large percentage of our sales force is new to our company and our solutions and therefore less effective than our more seasoned employees. In addition, as we transition our business to focus on software-only transactions and more cloud-based services on a subscription basis, we are also re-training our seasoned sales employees, who have historically focused on appliance sales and selling software licenses for the life of the device, in order to maintain or increase their productivity. If our new sales employees do not become fully productive on the timelines that we have projected, or if we are not successful in training our more seasoned sales employees as we focus on software-only and subscription-based sales, our revenue will not increase at anticipated levels and our ability to achieve long term projections may be negatively impacted. If we are unable to hire, train and maintain sufficient numbers of effective sales personnel, or our new or existing sales personnel are not successful in obtaining new end customers or increasing sales to our existing customer base, our business, operating results and prospects will be adversely affected.. If we do not effectively structure our sales force to focus on the end customers that will primarily drive our growth strategy, our business will be adversely affected.. As indicated above, our growth is dependent in large part on increasing our sales to large enterprises, particularly when those sales result in large orders for our solutions. In fiscal 2017, we started to segment our sales force to focus on these major accounts and large deals and continue to further refine this segmentation as our business changes. This process, which we anticipate will continue for the foreseeable future, has involved hiring new, and promoting existing members of our sales team into, global account manager roles that will focus exclusively on large sales to major accounts. We anticipate that the sales cycles associated with major accounts will be longer than our traditional sales cycles, which will increase the time it will take our new global account managers to become fully productive. The new sales processes and leadership structures for these global sales teams may also take longer than anticipated to implement, further impacting productivity. In addition, as our organization focuses more heavily on major accounts and large deals, the productivity of our traditional sales teams may be impacted. For example, we experienced what we believe was a short-term decrease in sales productivity of our North American sales teams, as well as a reduction in the number of large deals executed during the quarter ended January 31, 2017, due to the continued segmentation of our sales teams. Additionally, we are in the process of transitioning our business to focus primarily on software-only transactions, and we are adjusting our sales strategy and approach away from appliance sales. These potential fluctuations in sales productivity make it more difficult to accurately project our operating results or plan for future growth. If we are unable to effectively manage these changes or implement our news sales structure in a timely manner, or if our decision to segment our sales force is not successful in obtaining large sales of our solutions, our growth and ability to achieve long-term projections may be negatively impacted, and our business and operating results will be adversely affected.. 14. Table of Contents. We rely primarily on indirect sales channels for the distribution of our solutions, and disruption within these channels could adversely affect our business, operating results and cash flows.. We primarily sell our solutions through indirect sales channels, including channel partners, such as distributors, our OEM partners, value added resellers and system integrators. Our OEM partners in turn distribute our solutions through their own networks of channel partners with whom we have no direct relationships.. We rely, to a significant degree, on our channel partners to select, screen and maintain relationships with their distribution networks and to distribute our solutions in a manner that is consistent with applicable law, regulatory requirements and our quality standards. If our channel partners or a partner in their distribution network violates applicable law or regulatory requirements or misrepresents the functionality of our solutions, our reputation could be damaged and we could be subject to potential liability. Additionally, if we are unable to establish relationships with strong channel partners in key growth regions, our ability to sell our solutions in these regions may be adversely affected. Our agreements with our channel partners are non-exclusive, meaning our channel partners may offer end customers the products of several different companies, including products that compete with ours. If our channel partners do not effectively market and sell our solutions, choose to use greater efforts to market and sell their own products or those of our competitors, or fail to meet the needs of our end customers, our business, operating results and prospects may be adversely affected. Our channel partners may cease marketing our solutions with limited or no notice and with little or no penalty. The loss of a substantial number of our channel partners, together with our inability to replace them, or the failure to recruit additional channel partners or establish an alternative distribution network could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. For example, sales through Carahsoft Technology Corp. and Promark Technology Inc. to our end customers represented 9% and 19%, respectively, of our total revenue for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2017, and represented 10% and 20%, respectively, of our total revenue for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2018. In addition, if a channel partner offers its own products or services that are competitive to our solutions, is acquired by a competitor or reorganizes or divests its reseller business units, our revenue derived from that partner may be adversely impacted or eliminated altogether.. Recruiting and retaining qualified channel partners and training them in the use of our technologies require significant time and resources. If we fail to devote sufficient resources to support and expand our network of channel partners, our business may be adversely affected. Maintaining strong indirect sales channels for our products and effectively leveraging our channel partners and OEMs is important to our growth strategy, and the failure to effectively manage these relationships may lead to higher costs and reduced revenue. Also, in certain international markets, we are in the process of transitioning our distribution model from contracting directly with hundreds of individual resellers to contracting with a smaller number of larger global distributors. Although we believe that this transition will make our sales channels more efficient and broader reaching in the long term in these markets, there is no guarantee that this new distribution model will increase our sales in the short term or allow us to sustain our gross margins. Any potential delays or confusion during the transition process to our new partners may negatively affect our relationship with our existing end customers and channel partners and may cause us to lose prospective end customers or additional business from existing end customers. Upon completion of the transition to the new sales model, we will be more reliant on fewer channel partners, which may reduce our contact with our end customers making it more difficult for us to establish brand awareness, ensure proper delivery and installation of our software, support ongoing end customer requirements, estimate end customer demand, respond to evolving end customer needs and obtain subscription renewals from end customers.. All of our sales to government entities have been made indirectly through our channel partners. Government entities may have statutory, contractual or other legal rights to terminate contracts with our channel partners for convenience or due to a default, and, in the future, if the portion of government contracts that are subject to renegotiation or termination at the election of the government are material, any such termination or renegotiation may adversely impact our future operating results. Additionally, we sometimes rely on our channel partners to satisfy certain regulatory obligations that we would otherwise have to satisfy if we sold directly to the government entities, and our channel partners may be unable or unwilling to satisfy these obligations in the future. In the event of such termination or change, it may be difficult for us to arrange for another channel partner to sell our solutions to these government entities in a timely manner, and we could lose sales opportunities during the transition. Governments routinely investigate and audit government contractors' (including subcontractors') administrative processes, and any unfavorable audit could result in the government refusing to continue buying our solutions, our channel partners changing their business models or refusing to continue to sell our solutions under current models, a reduction of revenue or fines, or civil or criminal liability if the audit uncovers improper or illegal activities.. 15. Table of Contents. If our indirect distribution channel is disrupted, particularly if we are reliant on a fewer number of channel partners, or if we are required to directly satisfy certain regulatory obligations imposed by government entities as a result of our efforts to expand our sales to government entities, we may be required to devote more time and resources to distribute our solutions directly and support our end customers, which may not be as effective and could lead to higher costs, reduced revenue and growth that is slower than expected.. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which could make our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations.. Our operating results may fluctuate due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. If our revenue or operating results in any particular period fall below investor expectations, the price of our Class A common stock would likely decline. Factors that are difficult to predict and that could cause our operating results to fluctuate include:. • the timing and magnitude of orders, shipments and acceptance of our solutions in any quarter;. • our ability to attract new and retain existing end customers;. • disruptions in our sales channels or termination of our relationship with important channel partners and OEMs;. • the timing of revenue recognition for our sales, the impact of which is heightened by our shift toward software-only sales and shift to a subscription-based model;. • reductions in end customers' budgets for information technology purchases;. • delays in end customers' purchasing cycles or deferments of end customers' purchases in anticipation of new products or updates from us or our competitors;. • fluctuations in demand and competitive pricing pressures for our solutions;. • the mix of solutions sold, including the mix between appliance and software-only sales and the mix of the types of appliances that we sell, and the mix of revenue between products and support, entitlements and other services, which will depend in part on whether we are successful in executing our strategy to transition our business to focus on more software-only transactions;. • our ability to develop, introduce and ship in a timely manner new solutions and product enhancements that meet customer requirements;. • the timing of product releases or upgrades or announcements by us or our competitors;. • any change in the competitive dynamics of our markets, including consolidation among our competitors or resellers, new entrants or discounting of prices;. • the amount and timing of expenses to grow our business and the extent to which we are able to take advantage of economies of scale or to leverage our relationships with OEM or channel partners;. • the costs associated with acquiring new businesses and technologies and the follow-on costs of integrating and consolidating the results of acquired businesses;. • the amount and timing of stock-based compensation expenses;. • our ability to control the costs of our solutions and their key components, or to pass along any cost increases to our end customers;. • general economic, industry and market conditions; and. • future accounting pronouncements and changes in accounting policies, including our ability to implement the new procedures and processes necessary to accurately recognize our revenue under the new ASC 606 revenue recognition standard.. 16. Table of Contents. The occurrence of any one of these risks could negatively affect our operating results in any particular quarter, which could cause the price of our Class A common stock to decline.. Our gross margins are impacted by a variety of factors and may be subject to variation from period to period.. Our gross margins may be affected by a variety of factors, including shifts in the mix of whether our solutions are sold as an appliance or as software-only, fluctuations in the pricing of our products, including as a result of competitive pricing pressures or increases in component pricing, and the degree to which we are successful in selling the value of incremental feature improvements and upgrades, changes in the cost of components of our hardware appliances, changes in the mix between direct versus indirect sales, changes in the mix of products sold, including whether they are sold as appliances or as software-only, and the timing and amount of recognized and deferred revenue, particularly given that our recognition of revenue from sales of software-only licenses has changed following our adoption of ASC 606. For example, for the majority of fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2018, the prices of DRAM and NAND components increased due to supply constraints, which caused a negative impact on our gross margin. While the pricing of DRAM and NAND components has begun to decrease and we expect there to be less impact to our gross margins going forward as our solutions are increasingly being sold on a software-only basis, the pricing of components may continue to impact our gross margins. If we are unable to manage these factors effectively, our gross margins may decline, and fluctuations in gross margin may make it difficult to manage our business and to achieve or maintain profitability, which could adversely affect our business and operating results.. Our sales cycles can be long and unpredictable and our sales efforts require considerable time and expense. As a result, it can be difficult for us to predict when, if ever, a particular customer will choose to purchase our solutions, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly.. Our sales efforts involve educating our end customers about the uses and benefits of our solutions, including their technical capabilities and cost saving potential. End customers often undertake an evaluation and testing process that can result in a lengthy sales cycle. Increasing competition and the emergence of new hyperconverged infrastructure product offerings often result in customers evaluating multiple vendors at the same time, which can further lengthen the sales cycle. We spend substantial time and resources on our sales efforts without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales. Platform purchases are frequently subject to budget constraints, multiple approvals and unanticipated administrative, processing and other delays. The broad nature of the technology shift that our solutions represent and the legacy relationships our end customers have with existing IT vendors sometimes lead to unpredictable sales cycles, which make it difficult for us to predict when end customers may purchase solutions from us. The unpredictable nature of our sales cycles may be increased in future periods as we focus our sales efforts more heavily on major accounts and large deals. Our business and operating results will be significantly affected by the degree to which and speed with which organizations adopt our solutions.. Because we depend on contract manufacturers to assemble and test our hardware appliances, we are susceptible to delays and pricing fluctuations that could prevent us from shipping orders on time, if at all, or on a cost-effective basis, which would cause our business to be adversely affected.. We rely substantially on Super Micro Computer, Inc. (\"Super Micro\") and Flextronics Systems Limited (\"Flextronics\") to assemble and test the Nutanix-branded NX series appliances. Our reliance on these contract manufacturers reduces our control over the manufacturing process and exposes us to risks, including reduced control over quality assurance, product costs and product supply and timing. Furthermore, our orders represent a relatively small percentage of the overall orders received by our third-party manufacturers from their customers. Therefore, fulfilling our orders may not be a priority in guiding their business decisions and operational commitments. If we fail to manage our relationships with these contract manufacturers effectively, inaccurately forecast our component requirements, or if either of them experience delays or increased manufacturing lead times, component lead-time disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in their operations or are unable to meet our requirements for timely delivery, or we are unable to shift operations from one contract manufacturer to the other, our ability to ship high-quality solutions to our end customers on time could be severely impaired, we could incur substantial costs, such as costs relating to the expedited procurement of components or other associated inventory costs, and our business and operating results, competitive position and reputation could be harmed.. 17. Table of Contents. Our agreement with Super Micro automatically renews in May 2019 for successive one-year periods thereafter, with the option to terminate upon each annual renewal, and does not contain any minimum long-term commitment to manufacture our solutions. Our agreement with Flextronics expires in November 2020 and automatically renews for successive one-year periods thereafter, with the option to terminate upon each annual renewal. The agreement does not contain any minimum long-term commitment to manufacture our solutions and any orders are fulfilled only after a purchase order has been delivered and accepted. If we are required to change contract manufacturers, we may lose revenue, incur increased costs and damage our channel partner and end customer relationships. We may also decide to switch or bring on additional contract manufacturers in order to better meet our needs. Switching to or bringing on a new contract manufacturer and commencing production is expensive and time-consuming and may cause delays in order fulfillment at our existing contract manufacturers or cause other disruptions. For example, while we have already transitioned some of our manufacturing operations to Flextronics, we may encounter unexpected issues as we scale our operations with them. Our agreements with Super Micro and Flextronics do not contain any price assurances, and any increases in component costs, without a corresponding increase in the price of our solutions, could harm our gross margins. Furthermore, we may need to increase our component purchases, manufacturing capacity and internal test and quality functions if we experience increased demand. The inability of Super Micro, Flextronics or other contract manufacturers to provide us with adequate supplies of high-quality products could cause a delay in our order fulfillment, and our business, operating results and prospects would be adversely affected. As of July 31, 2018, we had approximately $23.1 million in the form of guarantees to our contract manufacturers related to certain components.. We rely on a limited number of suppliers, and in some cases single-source suppliers, for several key components of our hardware appliances, and any disruption in the availability or quality of these components could delay shipments of our appliances and damage our channel partner or end customer relationships.. We rely on a limited number of suppliers, and in some cases single-source suppliers, for several key hardware components of the Nutanix-branded NX series appliances. These components are generally purchased on a purchase order basis through Super Micro or Flextronics and we do not have long-term supply contracts with our suppliers. Our reliance on key suppliers exposes us to risks, including reduced control over product quality, production and component costs, timely delivery and capacity. It also exposes us to the potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components because we do not have long-term supply commitments, and replacing some of these components would require a lengthy product qualification process. Furthermore, we extensively test and qualify the components that are used in our appliances to ensure that they meet certain quality and performance specifications. If our supply of certain components is disrupted or delayed, or if we need to replace our existing suppliers, there can be no assurance that additional supplies or components can serve as adequate replacements for the existing components, will be available when required or that supplies will be available on terms that are favorable to us, and we may be required to modify our solutions to interoperate with the replacement components. Any of these developments could extend our lead times, increase the costs of our components or costs of product development, cause us to miss market windows for product launch and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. We generally maintain minimal inventory for repairs and a number of evaluation and demonstration units, and generally acquire components only as needed. We do not enter into long-term supply contracts for these components. As a result, our ability to respond to channel partner or end customer orders efficiently may be constrained by the then-current availability, terms and pricing of these components. The technology industry has experienced component shortages and delivery delays in the past, and we may experience shortages or delays of critical components in the future as a result of strong demand in the industry, component availability constraints, or other factors. If we or our suppliers inaccurately forecast demand for our solutions or we ineffectively manage our enterprise resource planning processes, our suppliers may have inadequate inventory, which could increase the prices we must pay for substitute components or result in our inability to meet demand for our solutions, as well as damage our channel partner or end customer relationships.. 18. Table of Contents. If the suppliers of the components of our hardware appliances increase prices of components, experience delays, disruptions, capacity constraints, quality control problems in their manufacturing operations or adverse changes to their financial condition, our ability to ship appliances to our channel partners or end customers in a timely manner and at competitive prices could be impaired and our competitive position, reputation, and operating results could be adversely affected. For example, for the majority of fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2018, the prices of DRAM and NAND components increased due to supply constraints. Qualifying a new component is expensive and time-consuming. If we are required to change key suppliers or assume internal manufacturing operations, we may lose revenue and damage our channel partner or end customer relationships which could adversely impact our revenue and operating results.. We enter into arrangements with our suppliers that could require us to purchase certain minimum levels of inventory, which could result in us incurring losses with respect to such inventory, and may negatively impact our business and operating results.. We enter into arrangements with our suppliers whereby the supplier will purchase certain quantities of components and allocate them exclusively for our use in our products. If we are unable to use the inventory within a specified period, we may be required to purchase the inventory, or to pay the supplier the difference between the price at which the supplier purchased the inventory and the price at which the supplier is ultimately able to sell the inventory to a third party. As a result, if we inaccurately or mistakenly forecast our need for any such components, or if the market price of any such components decreases after the components are purchased by a supplier, we may suffer losses with respect to such inventory, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected.. We rely upon third parties for the warehousing and delivery of appliances and replacement parts for support, and we therefore have less control over these functions than we otherwise would.. We outsource the warehousing and delivery of appliances to a third-party logistics provider for worldwide fulfillment. In addition, some of our support offerings commit us to replace defective parts in our appliances as quickly as four hours after the initial customer support call is received, which we satisfy by storing replacement parts inventory in various third-party supply depots in strategic worldwide locations. As a result of relying on third parties, we have reduced control over shipping and logistics transactions and costs, quality control, security and the supply of replacement parts for support. Consequently, we may be subject to shipping disruptions and unanticipated costs as well as failures to provide adequate support for reasons that are outside of our direct control. If we are unable to have appliances or replacement products shipped in a timely manner, end customers may cancel their contracts with us, we may suffer reputational harm and our business, operating results and prospects may be adversely affected.. Our ability to sell our solutions is dependent in part on ease of use and the quality of our technical support, and any failure to offer high-quality technical support would harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. Once our solutions are deployed, our end customers depend on our support organization to resolve any technical issues relating to our solutions. Furthermore, because of the emerging nature of our solutions, our support organization often provides support for and troubleshoots issues for products of other vendors running on our solutions, even if the issue is unrelated to our solutions. There is no assurance that we can solve issues unrelated to our solutions, or that vendors whose products run on our solutions will not challenge our provision of technical assistance to their products. Our ability to provide effective support is largely dependent on our ability to attract, train and retain personnel who are not only qualified to support our solutions, but also well versed in some of the primary applications and hypervisors that our end customers run on our solutions. Furthermore, as we expand our operations internationally, our support organization will face additional challenges, including those associated with delivering support, training and documentation in languages other than English. Any failure to maintain high-quality installation and technical support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality support, could harm our reputation, adversely affect our ability to sell our solutions to existing and prospective end customers, and could harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. 19. Table of Contents. Our solutions are highly technical and may contain undetected defects, which could cause data unavailability, loss or corruption that might, in turn, result in liability to our end customers and harm to our reputation and business.. Our solutions are highly technical and complex and are often used to store information critical to our end customers' business operations. Our solutions may contain undetected errors, defects or security vulnerabilities that could result in data unavailability, unauthorized access to, loss, corruption or other harm to our end customers' data. Some errors or defects in our solutions may only be discovered after they have been installed and used by end customers. We previously conducted an in-field replacement of equipment manufactured by our previous outsourced manufacturer, and may be required to do so again in the future. In addition, we may make certain commitments to our OEM partners regarding the time frames within which we will correct any security vulnerabilities in our software. If any hardware or software errors, defects or security vulnerabilities are discovered in our solutions after commercial release, a number of negative effects in our business could result, including:. • lost revenue or lost OEM or other channel partners or end customers;. • increased costs, including warranty expense and costs associated with end customer support, as well as development costs to remedy the errors or defects;. • delays, cancellations, reductions or rescheduling of orders or shipments;. • product returns or discounts; and. • damage to our reputation and brand.. In addition, we could face legal claims for breach of contract, product liability, tort or breach of warranty. While many of our contracts with end customers contain provisions relating to warranty disclaimers and liability limitations, these provisions might not be upheld or might not provide adequate protection if we face such legal claims. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and may divert management's attention and adversely affect the market's perception of us and our solutions. In addition, our business liability insurance coverage could prove inadequate with respect to a claim and future coverage may be unavailable on acceptable terms or at all. These product-related issues could result in claims against us and our business could be adversely impacted.. Our business depends, in part, on sales to government organizations, and significant changes in the contracting or fiscal policies of such government organizations could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results.. We derive a portion of our revenue from contracts with federal, state, local and foreign governments, and we believe that the success and growth of our business will continue to depend on our successful procurement of government contracts. However, demand is often unpredictable from government organizations, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain or grow our revenue from the public sector. Government agencies are subject to budgetary processes and expenditure constraints that could lead to delays or decreased capital expenditures in IT spending, particularly in light of continued uncertainties about government spending levels and recent changes to, or failure to appoint new, government leaders. The budget and approval process for government agencies also experiences a longer sales cycle relative to our other end customers. If government organizations reduce or shift their capital spending patterns, our business, operating results and prospects may be harmed. Factors that could impede our ability to maintain or increase the amount of revenue derived from government contracts, include:. • public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations;. • changes in fiscal or contracting policies;. • decreases in available government funding;. • changes in government programs or applicable requirements;. • the adoption of new laws or regulations or changes to existing laws or regulations;. • potential delays or changes in the government appropriations or other funding authorization processes; and. 20. Table of Contents. • higher expenses associated with, or delays caused by, diligence and qualifying or maintaining qualification as a government vendor.. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could cause governments and governmental agencies to delay or refrain from purchasing our solutions in the future or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and prospects.. Third-party claims that we are infringing intellectual property, whether successful or not, could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or expensive licenses, and our business could be harmed.. A number of companies, both within and outside of the enterprise computing infrastructure industry, hold a large number of patents covering aspects of storage, servers and virtualization products. In addition to these patents, participants in this industry typically also protect their technology through copyrights and trade secrets. As a result, there is frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement, misappropriation or other violations of intellectual property rights. We have received, and in the future may receive, inquiries from other intellectual property holders and may become subject to claims that we infringe their intellectual property rights, particularly as we expand our presence in the market and face increasing competition. Based upon our review of these claims, we believe we have meritorious defenses to the allegations, although there can be no assurance that we will be successful in defending against these allegations or reaching a business resolution that is satisfactory to us. In addition, parties may claim that the names and branding of our solution infringe their trademark rights in certain countries or territories. If such a claim were to prevail we may have to change the names and branding of our solution in the affected territories and we could incur other costs.. We currently have a number of agreements in effect pursuant to which we have agreed to defend, indemnify and hold harmless our end customers, suppliers and channel and other partners from damages and costs which may arise from the infringement by our solutions of third-party patents or other intellectual property rights. The scope of these indemnity obligations varies, but may, in some instances, include indemnification for damages and expenses, including attorneys' fees. A claim that our solutions infringe a third party's intellectual property rights, even if untrue, could harm our relationships with our end customers and/or channel partners, may deter future end customers from purchasing our solutions and could expose us to costly litigation and settlement expenses. Even if we are not a party to any litigation between a customer and a third party relating to infringement by our solutions, an adverse outcome in any such litigation could make it more difficult for us to defend our solutions against intellectual property infringement claims in any subsequent litigation in which we are a named party. Any of these results could harm our brand and operating results.. Our defense of intellectual property rights claims brought against us or our end customers, suppliers and channel partners, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, expensive to litigate or settle, divert management resources and attention and force us to acquire intellectual property rights and licenses, which may involve substantial royalty or other payments. Further, a party making such a claim, if successful, could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages. An adverse determination also could invalidate our intellectual property rights and prevent us from offering our solutions to our end customers and may require that we procure or develop substitute solutions that do not infringe, which could require significant effort and expense. We may have to seek a license for the technology, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all, and as a result may significantly increase our operating expenses or require us to restrict our business activities in one or more respects. Any of these events could adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects.. 21. Table of Contents. The success of our business depends in part on our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights.. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, service mark, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions and covenants, to establish and protect our proprietary rights, all of which provide only limited protection. We cannot assure you that any patents will be issued with respect to our currently pending patent applications in a manner that gives us adequate defensive protection or competitive advantages, if at all, or that any patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. We have filed for patents in the United States and in certain international jurisdictions, but such protections may not be available in all countries in which we operate or in which we seek to enforce our intellectual property rights, or may be difficult to enforce in practice. Our currently issued patents and any patents that may be issued in the future with respect to pending or future patent applications may not provide sufficiently broad protection or they may not prove to be enforceable in actions against alleged infringers. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology or the reverse engineering of our technology. Moreover, others may independently develop technologies that are competitive to ours or infringe our intellectual property.. Protecting against the unauthorized use of our intellectual property, solutions and other proprietary rights is expensive and difficult, particularly internationally. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, either of which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Further, many of our current and potential competitors have the ability to dedicate substantially greater resources to defending intellectual property infringement claims and to enforcing their intellectual property rights than we have. Attempts to enforce our rights against third parties could also provoke these third parties to assert their own intellectual property or other rights against us, or result in a holding that invalidates or narrows the scope of our rights, in whole or in part. Effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our solutions are available. An inability to adequately protect and enforce our intellectual property and other proprietary rights could seriously harm our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects.. We may become subject to claims that our employees have wrongfully disclosed or we have wrongfully used proprietary information of our employees' former employers. These claims may be costly to defend and if we do not successfully do so, our business could be harmed.. Many of our employees were previously employed at current or potential competitors. Although we have processes to ensure that our employees do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may in the future become subject to claims that these employees have divulged, or we have used, proprietary information of these employees' former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel or their work product could hamper our ability to develop new solutions and features for existing solutions, which could severely harm our business. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation efforts are costly, time-consuming and a significant distraction to management.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired.. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (\"Exchange Act\"), the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (\"Sarbanes-Oxley Act\"), and the rules and regulations of the NASDAQ Stock Market. We expect that the requirements of these rules and regulations will continue to increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming and costly, and place significant strain on our personnel, systems and resources.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. We are continuing to develop and refine our disclosure controls, internal control over financial reporting and other procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (\"SEC\"), is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms, and that information required to be disclosed in reports under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to our principal executive and financial officers.. 22. Table of Contents. Our current controls and any new controls that we develop may become inadequate because of changes in conditions in our business. Further, weaknesses in our internal controls may be discovered in the future. Any failure to develop or maintain effective controls, or any difficulties encountered in their implementation or improvement, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and may result in a restatement of our financial statements for prior periods. Any failure to implement and maintain effective internal controls also could adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual independent registered public accounting firm attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting that we are required to include in our periodic reports we will file with the SEC under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Ineffective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial and other information, which would likely have a negative effect on the market price of our Class A common stock.. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting to comply with the SEC rules that implement Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we have expended and anticipate that we will continue to expend significant resources and undertake various actions, including incurring accounting-related costs and implementing new internal controls and procedures, and providing significant management oversight. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm is also required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed or operating. Any failure to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, or consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, or an adverse report from our independent auditors, could increase our operating costs and could materially impair our ability to operate our business and could have a material and adverse effect on our operating results and could cause a decline in the price of our Class A common stock. In addition, if we are unable to continue to meet these requirements, we may not be able to remain listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market.. Failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our business could subject us to fines and penalties and could also cause us to lose end customers in the public sector or negatively impact our ability to contract with the public sector.. Our business is subject to regulation by various federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies, including agencies responsible for monitoring and enforcing employment and labor laws, antitrust laws, workplace safety, product safety, environmental laws, consumer protection laws, anti-bribery laws, import/export controls, federal securities laws and tax laws and regulations. In certain jurisdictions, these regulatory requirements may be more stringent than in the United States. Noncompliance with applicable regulations or requirements could subject us to investigations, sanctions, mandatory product recalls, enforcement actions, disgorgement of profits, fines, damages and civil and criminal penalties or injunctions. If any governmental sanctions are imposed, or if we do not prevail in any possible civil or criminal litigation, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, responding to any action will likely result in a significant diversion of management's attention and resources and an increase in third-party professional fees. Enforcement actions and sanctions could harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. In addition, we must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of contracts with the public sector, including U.S. federal, state and local governmental organizations, which affect how we and our channel partners do business with governmental agencies. Selling our solutions to the U.S. government, whether directly or through channel partners, also subjects us to certain regulatory and contractual requirements. Failure to comply with these requirements by either us or our channel partners could subject us to investigations, fines and other penalties, which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects. As an example, the U.S. Department of Justice (\"DOJ\") and the General Services Administration (\"GSA\") have in the past pursued claims against and financial settlements with IT vendors under the False Claims Act and other statutes related to pricing and discount practices and compliance with certain provisions of GSA contracts for sales to the federal government. The DOJ and GSA continue to actively pursue such claims. Violations of certain regulatory and contractual requirements could also result in us being suspended or debarred from future government contracting. Any of these outcomes could have an adverse effect on our revenue, operating results, financial condition and prospects.. 23. Table of Contents. These laws and regulations impose added costs on our business, and failure to comply with these or other applicable regulations and requirements, including noncompliance in the past, could lead to claims for damages from our channel partners, penalties, termination of contracts, loss of exclusive rights in our intellectual property, and temporary suspension or permanent debarment from government contracting. Any such damages, penalties, disruptions or limitations in our ability to do business with the public sector could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results.. We are subject to governmental regulation and other legal obligations, particularly related to privacy, data protection and information security, and our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could adversely affect our business and operating results. Compliance with such laws could also impair our efforts to maintain and expand our customer base, and thereby decrease our revenue.. Personal privacy, data protection and information security are significant issues in the United States and the other jurisdictions where we offer our solutions. The regulatory framework for privacy and security issues worldwide is rapidly evolving and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. Our handling of data is subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including regulation by various government agencies, including the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (\"FTC\") and various state, local and foreign bodies and agencies.. The U.S. federal and various state and foreign governments have adopted or proposed limitations on the collection, distribution, use and storage of personal information of individuals, including end customers and employees. In the United States, the FTC and many state attorneys general are applying federal and state consumer protection laws to the online collection, use and dissemination of data. Additionally, many foreign countries and governmental bodies, including in Australia, the European Union, India, Japan and numerous other jurisdictions in which we operate or conduct our business, have laws and regulations concerning the collection and use of personal information obtained from their residents or by businesses operating within their jurisdiction. These laws and regulations often are more restrictive than those in the United States. Such laws and regulations may require companies to implement new privacy and security policies, permit individuals to access, correct and delete personal information stored or maintained by such companies, inform individuals of security breaches that affect their personal information, and, in some cases, obtain individuals' consent to use personal information for certain purposes. In addition, a foreign government could require that any personally identifiable information collected in a country not be disseminated outside of that country, and we are not currently equipped to comply with such a requirement.. We also expect that there will continue to be new proposed laws, regulations and industry standards concerning privacy, data protection and information security in the United States, the European Union and other jurisdictions, and we cannot yet determine the impact such future laws, regulations and standards may have on our business. Additionally, we expect that existing laws, regulations and standards may be interpreted in new manners in the future. There remains significant uncertainty surrounding the regulatory framework for the future of personal data transfers from the European Union to the United States, with regulations such as the recently adopted a General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\"), which became effective in May 2018, that superseded prior EU data protection legislation, impose more stringent EU data protection requirements, provides an enforcement authority which substantially increases compliance costs, and imposes large penalties for noncompliance. Additionally, as a result of current and proposed data protection and privacy laws aimed at using personal data for marketing purposes, including the proposed ePrivacy Regulation to replace the ePrivacy Directive, we face an increased difficulty in marketing to current and potential customers, which impacts our ability to spread awareness of our products and services and, in turn, grow a customer base in particular countries. As we begin to offer more cloud-based services, we will increasingly be positioned as a data processor, which imposes additional obligations, and may increase our liability exposure by operation of law, contract, or penalties for noncompliance. Future laws, regulations, standards and other obligations, including the enforcement of the GDPR in courts, as well as changes in the interpretation of existing laws, regulations, standards and other obligations could impair our or our customers' ability to collect, use or disclose information relating to individuals, which could decrease demand for our solutions, require us to restrict our business operations, increase our costs and impair our ability to maintain and grow our customer base and increase our revenue.. 24. Table of Contents. Although we are working to comply with those federal, state and foreign laws and regulations, industry standards, contractual obligations and other legal obligations that apply to us, those laws, regulations, standards and obligations are evolving and may be modified, interpreted and applied in an inconsistent manner from one jurisdiction to another, and may conflict with one another, other requirements or legal obligations, our practices or the features of our solutions. As such, we cannot assure ongoing compliance with all such laws or regulations, industry standards, contractual obligations and other legal obligations. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with federal, state or foreign laws or regulations, industry standards, contractual obligations or other legal obligations, or any actual or suspected security incident, whether or not resulting in unauthorized access to, or acquisition, release or transfer of personal information or other data, may result in governmental enforcement actions and prosecutions, private litigation, fines and penalties or adverse publicity and could cause our customers to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. Any inability to adequately address privacy and security concerns, even if unfounded, or comply with applicable laws, regulations, policies, industry standards, contractual obligations or other legal obligations could result in additional cost and liability to us, damage our reputation, inhibit sales, and adversely affect our business and operating results.. Failure to comply with anticorruption and anti-money laundering laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended (\"FCPA\"), and similar laws associated with our activities outside of the United States could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences.. We are subject to the FCPA, the U.S. domestic bribery statute contained in 18 U.S.C. § 201, the U.S. Travel Act, the USA PATRIOT Act, the United Kingdom Bribery Act of 2010 (\"U.K. Bribery Act\"), and possibly other anti-bribery and anti-money laundering laws in countries in which we conduct activities. We face significant risks if we fail to comply with the FCPA and other anticorruption laws that prohibit companies and their employees and third-party intermediaries from authorizing, offering or providing, directly or indirectly, improper payments or benefits to foreign government officials, political parties and private-sector recipients for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, directing business to any person or securing any advantage. In many foreign countries, particularly in countries with developing economies, it may be a local custom that businesses engage in practices that are prohibited by the FCPA or other applicable laws and regulations. In addition, we use various third parties to sell our solutions and conduct our business abroad. We or our third-party intermediaries may have direct or indirect interactions with officials and employees of government agencies or state-owned or affiliated entities and we can be held liable for the corrupt or other illegal activities of these third-party intermediaries, our employees, representatives, contractors, partners, and agents, even if we do not explicitly authorize such activities. We continue to update and implement our FCPA/anti-corruption compliance program and no assurance can be given that all of our employees and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, will not take actions in violation of our policies and applicable law, for which we may be ultimately held responsible.. Any violation of the FCPA, other applicable anticorruption laws, and anti-money laundering laws could result in whistleblower complaints, adverse media coverage, investigations, loss of export privileges, severe criminal or civil sanctions and, in the case of the FCPA, suspension or debarment from U.S. government contracts, which could have a material and adverse effect on our reputation, business, operating results and prospects. In addition, responding to any enforcement action may result in a materially significant diversion of management's attention and resources and significant defense costs and other third-party professional fees.. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could impair our ability to compete in international markets or subject us to liability if we violate the controls.. Our solutions are subject to U.S. export controls, including the Export Administration Regulations and economic sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, and we incorporate encryption technology into certain of our solutions. These encryption products and the underlying technology may be exported outside of the United States only with the required export authorizations, including by license, a license exception or other appropriate government authorizations, including the filing of an encryption registration.. 25. Table of Contents. Furthermore, our activities are subject to the U.S. economic sanctions laws and regulations that prohibit the shipment of certain products and services without the required export authorizations, including to countries, governments and persons targeted by U.S. embargoes or sanctions. Additionally, the U.S. government has been critical of existing trade agreements and may impose more stringent export and import controls. Obtaining the necessary export license or other authorization for a particular sale may be time-consuming and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities even if the export license ultimately may be granted. While we take precautions to prevent our solutions from being exported in violation of these laws, including obtaining authorizations for our encryption products, implementing IP address blocking and screenings against U.S. government and international lists of restricted and prohibited persons, we cannot guarantee that the precautions we take will prevent violations of export control and sanctions laws. Violations of U.S. sanctions or export control laws can result in significant fines or penalties and possible incarceration for responsible employees and managers could be imposed for criminal violations of these laws.. We also note that if our channel partners fail to obtain appropriate import, export or re-export licenses or permits, we may also be adversely affected, through reputational harm, as well as other negative consequences, including government investigations and penalties. We presently incorporate export control compliance requirements into our channel partner agreements; however, no assurance can be given that our channel partners will be able to comply with such requirements.. Also, various countries, in addition to the United States, regulate the import and export of certain encryption and other technology, including import and export licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our solutions or could limit our end customers' ability to implement our solutions in those countries. Changes in our solutions or future changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our solutions in international markets, prevent our end customers with international operations from deploying our solutions globally or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our solutions to certain countries, governments, or persons altogether. From time to time, various governmental agencies have proposed additional regulation of encryption technology, including the escrow and government recovery of private encryption keys. Any change in export or import regulations, economic sanctions or related legislation, increased export and import controls stemming from U.S. government policies, or change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our solutions by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our solutions to, existing or potential end customers with international operations. Any decreased use of our solutions or limitation on our ability to export or sell our solutions would adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects.. Our international operations expose us to additional risks, and failure to manage those risks could adversely affect our business, operating results and cash flows.. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from end customers and channel partners outside the United States. We derived approximately 37%, 42% and 44% of our total revenue from our international customers based on bill-to-location for fiscal 2016, 2017 and 2018, respectively. We are continuing to adapt to and develop strategies to address international markets but there is no guarantee that such efforts will have the desired effect. As of July 31, 2018, approximately 44% of our full-time employees were located outside of the United States. We expect that our international activities will continue to grow over the foreseeable future as we continue to pursue opportunities in existing and new international markets, which will require significant management attention and financial resources. We are subject to risks associated with having significant worldwide operations, including:. • business practices may differ from those in the United States and may require us in the future to include terms other than our standard terms in customer, channel partner, employee, consultant and other contracts;. • political, economic and social instability or uncertainty around the world;. • potential changes in trade relations arising from policy initiatives implemented by, or statements made by, the U.S. government, which has been critical of existing and proposed trade agreements, such as the newly imposed tariffs for Chinese imports to the U.S.;. • greater difficulty in enforcing contracts, judgments and arbitration awards in international courts, and in collecting accounts receivable and longer payment and collection periods;. • greater risk of unexpected changes in regulatory practices, tariffs, and tax laws and treaties;. 26. Table of Contents. • risks associated with trade restrictions and foreign legal requirements, including the importation, certification and localization of our solutions required in foreign countries;. • greater risk of a failure of foreign employees, partners, distributors and resellers to comply with both U.S. and foreign laws, including antitrust regulations, the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act, U.S. or foreign sanctions regimes and export or import control laws, and any trade regulations ensuring fair trade practices;. • heightened risk of unfair or corrupt business practices in certain geographies and of improper or fraudulent sales arrangements that may impact financial results and result in restatements of, or irregularities in, financial statements;. • requirements to comply with foreign privacy, data protection and information security laws and regulations and the risks and costs of noncompliance;. • reduced or uncertain protection for intellectual property rights in some countries;. • impediments to the flow of foreign exchange capital payments and receipts due to exchange controls instituted by certain foreign governments;. • increased expenses incurred in establishing and maintaining corporate entities, office space, and equipment for our international operations;. • difficulties in managing and staffing international offices and increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations;. • greater difficulty in identifying, attracting and retaining local experienced personnel, and the costs and expenses associated with such activities;. • the challenge of managing a development team in geographically disparate locations;. • management communication and integration problems resulting from cultural and geographic dispersion;. • differing employment practices and labor relations issues;. • fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies in markets where we do business; and. • treatment of revenue from international sources for tax purposes and changes in tax laws, regulations or official interpretations, including being subject to foreign tax laws and being liable for paying withholding, income or other taxes in foreign jurisdictions.. As we expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these risks. These factors and other factors could harm our ability to gain future international revenue and, consequently, materially impact our business, operating results and financial condition. The expansion of our existing international operations and entry into additional international markets will require significant management attention and financial resources. Our failure to successfully manage our international operations and the associated risks effectively could limit the future growth of our business. Additionally, failure to effectively manage this growth may result in reduced international revenue relative to U.S. revenue, and as a result, a higher effective tax rate due to the overall percentage of total revenue from U.S. customers relative to international customers.. 27. Table of Contents. A number of our solutions incorporate software provided under open source licenses which may restrict or impose certain obligations on how we use or distribute our solutions or subject us to various risks and challenges, which could result in increased development expenses, delays or disruptions to the release or distribution of those solutions, inability to protect our intellectual property rights and increased competition.. Certain significant components of our solutions incorporate or are based upon open source software, and we may incorporate open source software into other solutions in the future. Such open source software is generally licensed under open source licenses, including, for example, the GNU General Public License, the GNU Lesser General Public License, \"Apache-style\" licenses, \"BSD-style\" licenses and other open source licenses. The use of open source software subjects us to a number of risks and challenges, including:. • If open source software programmers, most of whom we do not employ, do not continue to develop and enhance open source technologies, our development expenses could increase and our product release and upgrade schedules could be delayed.. • Open source software is open to further development or modification by anyone. As a result, others may develop such software to be competitive with our platform and may make such competitive software available as open source. It is also possible for competitors to develop their own solutions using open source software, potentially reducing the demand for, and putting price pressure on, our solutions.. • The licenses under which we license certain types of open source software may require that, if we modify the open source software we receive, we are required to make such modified software and other related proprietary software of ours publicly available without cost and on the same terms. Accordingly, we monitor our use of open source software in an effort to avoid subjecting our proprietary software to such conditions and others we do not intend. Although we believe that we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable licenses for open source software that we use, our processes used to monitor how open source software is used could be subject to error. In addition, there is little or no legal precedent governing the interpretation of terms in most of these licenses. Therefore, any improper usage of open source could result in unanticipated obligations regarding our solutions and technologies, which could have an adverse impact on our intellectual property rights and our ability to derive revenue from solutions incorporating the open source software.. • If an author or other third party that distributes such open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur legal expenses defending against such allegations, or engineering expenses in developing a substitute solution.. If we are unable to successfully address the challenges of integrating offerings based upon open source technology into our business, our business and operating results may be adversely affected and our development costs may increase.. Adverse economic conditions or reduced IT spending may adversely impact our revenues and profitability.. Our operations and performance depend in part on worldwide economic conditions and the impact these conditions have on levels of spending on enterprise computing technology. Our business depends on the overall demand for enterprise computing infrastructure and on the economic health and general willingness of our current and prospective end customers to purchase our solutions. Weak economic conditions, or a reduction in enterprise computing spending, would likely adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition in a number of ways, including by reducing sales, lengthening sales cycles and lowering prices for our solutions.. 28. Table of Contents. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our operating results.. Our sales contracts are denominated in U.S. dollars, and therefore, substantially all of our revenue is not subject to foreign currency risk. However, a strengthening of the U.S. dollar could increase the real cost of our solutions to our end customers outside of the United States, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. In addition, an increasing portion of our operating expenses is incurred outside the United States, is denominated in foreign currencies such as the euro, the Pound Sterling, the Indian Rupee, the Canadian Dollar and the Australian Dollar, and is subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. If we become more exposed to currency fluctuations and are not able to successfully hedge against the risks associated with currency fluctuations, our operating results could be adversely affected. To date, we have not entered into any hedging arrangements with respect to foreign currency risk or other derivative instruments.. Taxing authorities may successfully assert that we should have collected or in the future should collect sales and use, value added or similar taxes, and we could be subject to liability with respect to past or future sales, which could adversely affect our operating results.. We do not collect sales and use, value added or similar taxes in all jurisdictions in which we have sales, and we have been advised that such taxes are not applicable to our products and services in certain jurisdictions. Sales and use, value added and similar tax laws and rates vary greatly by jurisdiction. Certain jurisdictions in which we do not collect such taxes may assert that such taxes are applicable, which could result in tax assessments, penalties and interest, to us or our end customers for the past amounts, and we may be required to collect such taxes in the future. If we are unsuccessful in collecting such taxes from our end customers, we could be held liable for such costs, which may adversely affect our operating results.. Our international operations may subject us to potential adverse tax consequences.. We are expanding our international operations and staff to better support our growth into the international markets. Our corporate structure and associated transfer pricing policies contemplate the business flows and future growth into the international markets, and consider the functions, risks and assets of the various entities involved in the intercompany transactions. The amount of taxes we pay in different jurisdictions may depend on the application of the tax laws of the various jurisdictions, including the United States, to our international business activities, changes in tax rates, new or revised tax laws or interpretations of existing tax laws and policies and our ability to operate our business in a manner consistent with our corporate structure and intercompany arrangements. The taxing authorities of the jurisdictions in which we operate may challenge our methodologies for pricing intercompany transactions pursuant to the intercompany arrangements or disagree with our determinations as to the income and expenses attributable to specific jurisdictions. If such a challenge or disagreement were to occur, and our position was not sustained, we could be required to pay additional taxes, interest and penalties, which could result in one-time tax charges, higher effective tax rates, reduced cash flows and lower overall profitability of our operations. Our financial statements could fail to reflect adequate reserves to cover such a contingency.. Sales to our non-U.S. customers are taxed at a lower rate, which is contingent upon existing tax laws and regulations in the U.S. and in the countries in which our international operations are located. Future changes in domestic or international tax laws and regulations could adversely affect our ability to continue to realize these lower tax rates.. Changes in global tax laws could increase our worldwide tax rate and could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, results of operations or financial conditions.. In December 2017, the U.S. Congress passed and the President signed legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"TCJA\"), which includes a broad range of tax reform proposals affecting businesses, including a federal corporate rate reduction from 35% to 21%; limitations on the deductibility of interest expense and executive compensation; creation of new minimum taxes such as the base erosion anti-abuse tax, Global Intangible Low Taxed Income; and a new minimum tax on certain foreign earnings. We are analyzing the TCJA to determine the full impact of the new tax law. In addition, international organizations such as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, have published Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, action plans that, if adopted by countries where we do business, could increase our tax obligations in these countries. Due to the large scale of our U.S. and international business activities, many of these enacted and proposed changes to the taxation of our activities could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and have an adverse effect on our operating results, cash flow or financial condition.. 29. Table of Contents. Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, floods and other natural catastrophic events, and interruptions by man-made problems, such as network security breaches, computer viruses or terrorism.. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire, flood or significant power outage could have an adverse impact on our business and operating results. Despite the implementation of network security measures, our networks also may be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our solutions. Both our corporate headquarters and our main contract manufacturers are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, a region known for seismic activity. In addition, natural disasters, acts of terrorism or war could cause disruptions in our or our end customers' or channel partners' businesses, our suppliers' and manufacturers' operations or the economy as a whole. We also rely on IT systems to communicate among our workforce and with third parties. Any disruption to our communications, whether caused by a natural disaster or by man-made problems, such as power disruptions, could adversely affect our business. We do not have a formal disaster recovery plan or policy in place and do not currently require that our manufacturing partners have such plans or policies in place. To the extent that any such disruptions result in delays or cancellations of orders or impede our suppliers' or our manufacturers' ability to timely deliver our solutions and product components, or the deployment of our solutions, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. We do maintain what we believe are commercially reasonable levels of business interruption insurance. However, such insurance may not adequately cover our losses in the event of a significant disruption in our business.. If we are the victim of a cyber attack and our networks, computer systems or software solutions are breached or unauthorized access to customer data otherwise occurs, our business operations may be interrupted, our reputation may be damaged and we may incur significant liabilities.. Cyber attacks designed to gain access to sensitive information by breaching mission critical systems of large organizations are constantly evolving, and high-profile electronic security breaches leading to the unauthorized release of sensitive customer information have occurred at a number of large companies in recent years. As we transition to offering more cloud-based solutions, such as Xi Cloud Services, we may increasingly be the target of cyber threats. Because the techniques used and vulnerabilities exploited to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently, and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or vulnerabilities or implement adequate preventative measures. We may also experience security breaches that may remain undetected for an extended period. If any unauthorized access to or security breach of our solutions occurs, or is believed to have occurred, such an event or perceived event could result in the loss of data, loss of intellectual property or trade secrets, loss of business, severe reputational or brand damage adversely affecting end customer or investor confidence, regulatory investigations and orders, litigation, indemnity obligations, damages for contract breach, and penalties for violation of privacy, data protection and other applicable laws, regulations or contractual obligations. We may also be subject to significant costs for remediation that may include liability for stolen assets or information and repair of system damage that may have been caused or incentives offered to end customers or other business partners in an effort to maintain business relationships after a breach and other liabilities. Additionally, any such event or perceived event could impact our reputation, harm customer confidence, hurt our sales and expansion into new markets or cause us to lose existing end customers. We could be required to expend significant capital and other resources to alleviate problems caused by such actual or perceived breaches and to remediate our systems, we could be exposed to a risk of loss, litigation or regulatory action and possible liability, and our ability to operate our business may be impaired. Additionally, actual, potential or anticipated attacks may cause us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees and engage third-party experts and consultants.. In addition, if the security measures of our end customers are compromised, even without any actual compromise of our own systems or of our solutions used by such end customers, we may face negative publicity or reputational harm if our end customers or anyone else incorrectly attributes the blame for such security breaches to us or our solutions. If end customers believe that our solutions do not provide adequate security for the storage of personal or other sensitive or proprietary information or the transmission of such information over the internet, our business will be harmed. End customers' concerns about security or privacy may deter them from using our solutions for activities that involve personal or other sensitive information, which may significantly affect our business and operating results.. 30. Table of Contents. We have expanded and may further expand through acquisitions of, or investments in, other companies, each of which may divert our management's attention, resulting in additional dilution to our stockholders and consumption of resources that are necessary to sustain and grow our business.. Our business strategy may, from time to time, include acquiring other complementary products, technologies or businesses. For example, in August 2018 we acquired Mainframe2, Inc. (\"Frame\"), in March 2018 we acquired Minjar, Inc. and Netsil Inc., in August 2016, we acquired Calm.io Pte. Ltd. and in September 2016, we acquired PernixData, Inc. We also may enter into relationships with other businesses in order to expand our solutions, which could involve preferred or exclusive licenses, additional channels of distribution or discount pricing or investments in other companies. Negotiating these transactions can be time-consuming, difficult and expensive, and our ability to close these transactions may be subject to third-party approvals, such as government regulatory approvals, which are beyond our control. Consequently, we can make no assurance that these transactions once undertaken and announced, will close.. These kinds of acquisitions or investments may result in unforeseen expenditures and operating and integration difficulties, especially if the acquisitions or investments are more complex in structure and scope, including due to the geographic location of the acquired company. In particular, we may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating the businesses, technologies, products, personnel or operations of companies that we may acquire, particularly if the key personnel of the acquired business choose not to work for us. We may have difficulty retaining the customers of any acquired business or the acquired technologies or research and development expectations may prove unsuccessful. Acquisitions may also disrupt our ongoing business, divert our resources and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for development of our business. We may not successfully evaluate or utilize the acquired technology or personnel, or accurately forecast the financial impact of an acquisition transaction, including accounting charges. Any acquisition or investment could expose us to unknown liabilities. Moreover, we cannot assure you that the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or investment would be realized or that we would not be exposed to unknown liabilities. In connection with these types of transactions, we may issue additional equity securities that would dilute our stockholders, use cash that we may need in the future to operate our business, incur debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay, incur large charges or substantial liabilities, encounter difficulties integrating diverse business cultures, and become subject to adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges. These challenges related to acquisitions or investments could adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects.. Regulations related to conflict minerals may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the costs of certain metals used in the manufacturing of our solutions.. We are subject to the requirements under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\") that will require us to perform due diligence and disclose and report whether our solutions contain conflict minerals. Although the SEC has recently provided guidance with respect to a portion of the conflict mineral filing requirements that may somewhat reduce our reporting practices, we have incurred and expect to incur additional costs to comply with these disclosure requirements, and the requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of the materials used in the manufacture of components used in our products.. Risks Related to the Notes. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to settle conversions of the Notes in cash or to repurchase the Notes upon a fundamental change, and our future debt may contain limitations on our ability to pay cash upon conversion or repurchase of the Notes.. Holders of the Notes will have the right to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their Notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change before the maturity date at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid special interest, if any. In addition, upon conversion of the Notes, unless we elect to deliver solely shares of our Class A common stock to settle such conversion (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we will be required to make cash payments in respect of the Notes being converted. Moreover, we will be required to repay the Notes in cash at their maturity unless earlier converted or repurchased. However, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make repurchases of Notes surrendered therefor or pay cash with respect to Notes being converted or at their maturity.. 31. Table of Contents. In addition, our ability to repurchase Notes or to pay cash upon conversions of Notes or at their maturity may be limited by law, regulatory authority or agreements governing our future indebtedness. Our failure to repurchase Notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the indenture or to pay cash upon conversions of Notes or at their maturity as required by the indenture would constitute a default under the indenture. A default under the indenture or the fundamental change itself could also lead to a default under agreements governing our future indebtedness. Moreover, the occurrence of a fundamental change under the indenture could constitute an event of default under any such agreement. If the payment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness or to pay cash amounts due upon conversion, upon required repurchase or at maturity of the Notes.. The conditional conversion feature of the Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. In the event the conditional conversion feature of the Notes is triggered, holders of the Notes will be entitled to convert their Notes at any time during specified periods at their option. If one or more holders elect to convert their Notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our Class A common stock (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we would be required to settle a portion or all of our conversion obligation in cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders of Notes do not elect to convert their Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital.. The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as the Notes, could have a material effect on our reported financial results.. Under Accounting Standards Codification 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options (\"ASC 470-20\"), an entity must separately account for the liability and equity components of the convertible debt instruments (such as the Notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuer's economic interest cost. The effect of ASC 470-20 on the accounting for the Notes is that the equity component is required to be included in the additional paid-in capital section of stockholders' equity on our consolidated balance sheet at the issuance date and the value of the equity component would be treated as debt discount for the purpose of accounting for the debt component of the Notes. As a result, we are required to record non-cash interest expense as a result of the amortization of the discounted carrying value of the Notes to their face amount over the term of the Notes. We will report larger net losses (or lower net income) in our financial results because ASC 470-20 will require interest to include the amortization of the debt discount, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results or the trading price of our Class A common stock.. In addition, under certain circumstances, convertible debt instruments (such as the Notes) that may be settled entirely or partly in cash may be accounted for utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that the shares issuable upon conversion of such Notes are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share, except to the extent that the conversion value of such Notes exceeds their principal amount. Under the treasury stock method, for diluted earnings per share purposes, the transaction is accounted for as if the number of shares of Class A common stock that would be necessary to settle such excess, if we elected to settle such excess in shares, are issued. We cannot be sure that the accounting standards in the future will continue to permit the use of the treasury stock method. If we are unable or otherwise elect not to use the treasury stock method in accounting for the shares issuable upon conversion of the Notes, then our diluted earnings per share could be adversely affected.. The convertible note hedge and warrant transactions may affect the value of the Notes and our Class A common stock.. In connection with the pricing of the Notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions with one or more of the initial purchasers of the Notes and/or their respective affiliates or other financial institutions, or the option counterparties. We also entered into warrant transactions with the option counterparties pursuant to which we will sell warrants for the purchase of our Class A common stock. The convertible note hedge transactions are expected generally to reduce the potential dilution upon any conversion of Notes and/or offset any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount upon conversion of any Notes. The warrant transactions could separately have a dilutive effect to the extent that the market price per share of our Class A common stock exceeds the strike price of the warrants.. 32. Table of Contents. The option counterparties and/or their respective affiliates may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivatives with respect to our Class A common stock and/or purchasing or selling our Class A common stock in secondary market transactions prior to the maturity of the Notes (and are likely to do so during any observation period related to a conversion of Notes or following any repurchase of Notes by us on any fundamental change repurchase date or otherwise). This activity could also cause or avoid an increase or a decrease in the market price of our Class A common stock. In addition, if any such convertible note hedge and warrant transactions fail to become effective, the option counterparties may unwind their hedge positions with respect to our Class A common stock, which could adversely affect the value of our Class A common stock.. The potential effect, if any, of these transactions and activities on the market price of our Class A common stock will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time. Any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our Class A common stock.. We are subject to counterparty risk with respect to the convertible note hedge transactions.. The option counterparties will be financial institutions or affiliates of financial institutions, and we will be subject to the risk that one or more of such option counterparties may default under the convertible note hedge transactions. Our exposure to the credit risk of the option counterparties will not be secured by any collateral. If any option counterparty becomes subject to bankruptcy or other insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at that time under our transactions with that option counterparty. Our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, an increase in our exposure will be correlated to an increase in our Class A common stock market price and in the volatility of the market price of our Class A common stock. In addition, upon a default by an option counterparty, we may suffer adverse tax consequences and dilution with respect to our Class A common stock. We can provide no assurance as to the financial stability or viability of any option counterparty.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Class A Common Stock. The market price of our Class A common stock may be volatile and may decline.. The market price of our Class A common stock has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate substantially. The market price of our Class A common stock depends on a number of factors, including those described in this \"Risk Factors\" section, many of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. These fluctuations could cause you to lose all or part of your investment in our Class A common stock. Factors that could cause fluctuations in the market price of our Class A common stock include the following:. • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time;. • volatility in the market prices and trading volumes of high technology stocks;. • changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those in our industry in particular;. • changes in financial estimates by any analysts who follow our company, including as a result of our plan to transition our business to focus on more software-only transactions and our announced plan to transition toward a subscription-based model, or our failure to meet these estimates or the expectations of investors;. • the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections;. • announcements by us or our competitors of new products or new or terminated significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments;. • public analyst or investor reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the SEC;. • rumors and market speculation involving us or other companies in our industry;. • actual or anticipated changes or fluctuations in our operating results;. 33. Table of Contents. • actual or anticipated developments in our business or our competitors' businesses or the competitive landscape generally;. • actual or threatened litigation involving us, our industry or both, or investigations by regulators into our operations or those of our competitors;. • developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or our solutions, or third-party proprietary rights;. • rumored, announced or completed acquisitions of businesses or technologies by us or our competitors;. • new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business;. • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidelines, interpretations or principles;. • any major changes in our management or our Board of Directors;. • general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of our markets; and. • other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to these events.. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Broad market and industry factors may seriously affect the market price of our Class A common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market prices of a particular company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Securities litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources from our business. This could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Sales of substantial amounts of our Class A common stock in the public markets, or the perception that they might occur, could reduce the price that our Class A common stock might otherwise attain and may dilute your voting power and your ownership interest in us.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our Class A common stock in the public markets, particularly sales by our directors, executive officers and significant stockholders, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock.. We have reserved a substantial number of shares of our Class A common stock for issuance upon vesting or exercise of our equity compensation plans, upon conversion of the Notes and in relation to warrant transactions we entered into in connection with the pricing of the Notes.. In addition, certain holders of our Class B common stock are entitled to rights with respect to registration of these shares under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, pursuant to our Amended and Restated Investors' Rights Agreement. If such holders exercise their registration rights and sell a large number of shares, they could adversely affect the market price for our Class A common stock. We have also registered the offer and sale of all shares of Class A and Class B common stock that we may issue under our equity compensation plans.. We may also issue our shares of Class A common stock or additional securities convertible into shares of our Class A common stock from time to time in connection with a financing, acquisition, investments or otherwise. Any such issuance could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline.. 34. Table of Contents. The dual class structure of our common stock as contained in our charter documents has the effect of concentrating voting control with a limited number of stockholders that held our stock prior to our IPO, including our directors, executive officers, and employees and their affiliates, and significant stockholders, which will limit your ability to influence corporate matters.. Our Class B common stock has 10 votes per share, and our Class A common stock has one vote per share. As of July 31, 2018, stockholders who hold shares of Class B common stock, including our investors and our directors, executive officers, and employees, and their affiliates, together hold a significant majority of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock. As a result, for the foreseeable future, such stockholders will have significant influence over the management and affairs of our company and over the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger, consolidation or sale of substantially all of our assets.. In addition, the holders of Class B common stock collectively will continue to control all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval even if their stock holdings represent less than 50% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Because of the ten-to-one voting ratio between our Class B and Class A common stock, the holders of our Class B common stock collectively will continue to control a majority of the combined voting power of our common stock so long as the shares of Class B common stock represent at least 9.1% of all outstanding shares of our Class A and Class B common stock. This concentrated control will limit your ability to influence corporate matters for the foreseeable future, and, as a result, the market price of our Class A common stock could be adversely affected. These holders of our Class B common stock may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests, and, unless earlier converted at the election of the holders of 67% of our outstanding Class B common stock, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for a dual class stock structure for 17 years following the completion of our IPO.. Future transfers, whether or not for value, by holders of Class B common stock will generally result in those shares converting to Class A common stock, subject to limited exceptions, such as certain transfers affected for estate planning purposes. The conversion of shares of our Class B common stock into shares of our Class A common stock will have the effect, over time, of increasing the relative voting power of those holders of Class B common stock who retain their shares in the long term. If one or more significant holders of our Class B common stock decides to convert or sell their shares, it could result in a different group of Class B common stock holders having the power to exert significant influence over our company, which may or may not align with the strategy and direction set by our management. Any such changes could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock.. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management's attention and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified Board members.. We are subject to the reporting and corporate governance requirements of the Exchange Act, the listing requirements of the NASDAQ Stock Market and other applicable securities rules and regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Act. Compliance with these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and increase demand on our systems and resources, particularly now that we are no longer an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act. Among other things, the Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and results of operations and maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. In order to improve our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting to meet this standard, significant resources and management oversight may be required. As a result, management's attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Although we have already hired additional employees to help comply with these requirements, we may need to further expand our legal and finance departments in the future, which will increase our costs and expenses.. 35. Table of Contents. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time-consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expense and a diversion of management's time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business and prospects may be harmed. As a result of our required public disclosures of information, our business and financial condition are more visible, which may result in threatened or actual litigation, including by competitors and other third parties. If such claims are successful, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be harmed, and even if the claims do not result in litigation or are resolved in our favor, these claims, and the time and resources necessary to resolve them, could divert the resources of our management and harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. In addition, as a result of our disclosure obligations as a public company, we will have reduced strategic flexibility and will be under pressure to focus on short-term results, which may adversely affect our ability to achieve long-term profitability.. If financial or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, if they have a difficulty understanding the changes to our business model, or if they issue inaccurate or unfavorable research regarding our Class A common stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our Class A common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control these analysts or the content and opinions included in their reports. In addition, we are in a period of transition to focus our business on more software-only transactions in the short term and a subscription-based business model in the long term, which analysts may not have historically reflected, or may not accurately in the future reflect, in their research. The foregoing factors could affect analysts' ability to accurately forecast our results and make it more likely that we fail to meet their estimates. In the event we obtain industry or financial analyst coverage, if any of the analysts who cover us issue an inaccurate or unfavorable opinion regarding our stock price, our stock price would likely decline. In addition, the stock prices of many companies in the high technology industry have declined significantly after those companies have failed to meet, or often times significantly exceeded, the financial guidance publicly announced by the companies or the expectations of analysts. If our financial results fail to meet (or significantly exceed) our announced guidance or the expectations of analysts or public investors, analysts could downgrade our Class A common stock or publish unfavorable research about us. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. Certain provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of our company more difficult, limit attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove members of our Board of Directors or current management and may adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. These provisions could also make it difficult for stockholders to elect directors that are not nominated by the current members of our Board of Directors or take other corporate actions, including effecting changes in our management. These provisions include:. • our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for a dual class common stock structure for 17 years following the completion of our IPO;. • a classified Board of Directors with three-year staggered terms, which could delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our Board of Directors;. • the ability of our Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer;. 36. Table of Contents. • upon the conversion of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock into a single class of common stock, the exclusive right of our Board of Directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of our Board of Directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our Board of Directors;. • upon the conversion of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock into a single class of common stock, a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders;. • the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of our Board of Directors, our lead independent director, our president, our secretary or a majority vote of our Board of Directors, which could delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors;. • the requirement for the affirmative vote of holders of at least 66 2/3% of the voting power of all of the then outstanding shares of the voting stock, voting together as a single class, to amend the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation relating to the issuance of preferred stock and management of our business or our amended and restated bylaws, which may inhibit the ability of an acquirer to effect such amendments to facilitate an unsolicited takeover attempt;. • the ability of our Board of Directors, by majority vote, to amend our amended and restated bylaws, which may allow our Board of Directors to take additional actions to prevent an unsolicited takeover and inhibit the ability of an acquirer to amend our amended and restated bylaws to facilitate an unsolicited takeover attempt; and. • advance notice procedures with which stockholders must comply to nominate candidates to our Board of Directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us.. In addition, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us for a certain period of time.. We do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our Class A common stock.. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our Class A common stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation of our business and do not anticipate paying any dividends on our Class A common stock in the foreseeable future. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their Class A common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investments.. 37. Table of Contents"
