[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. You should consider carefully the following risks and uncertainties when reading this Annual Report. If any of the events described below actually occurs, the Company's business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such risks and uncertainties. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties.. Our future growth and profitability will depend in large part upon the effectiveness and efficiency of our marketing expenditures and our ability to select effective markets and media in which to advertise.. Our marketing expenditures were $198.9 million, $152.4 million and $124.2 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Our future growth and profitability will depend in large part upon the effectiveness and efficiency of our marketing expenditures, including our ability to:. •  create greater awareness of our brands and our programs;. •  identify the most effective and efficient levels of spending in each market, media and specific media vehicle;. •  determine the appropriate creative messages and media mix for advertising, marketing and promotional expenditures;. •  effectively manage marketing costs (including creative and media) in order to maintain acceptable customer acquisition costs;. •  acquire cost-effective national television advertising;. •  select the most effective markets, media and specific media vehicles in which to advertise; and. •  convert consumer inquiries into actual orders.. Our planned marketing expenditures may not result in increased revenue or generate sufficient levels of brand name and program awareness. We may not be able to manage our marketing expenditures on a cost-effective basis whereby our customer acquisition costs may exceed the contribution profit generated from each additional customer.. Our sales may be adversely impacted by the health and stability of the general economy.. Unfavorable changes in general economic conditions, such as a recession or prolonged economic slowdown, may reduce the demand for our products and otherwise adversely affect our sales. For example, economic forces, including general economic conditions, demographic trends, consumer confidence in the economy, changes in disposable consumer income and/or reductions in discretionary spending, may cause consumers to defer purchases of our programs which could adversely affect our revenue, gross margins, and/or our overall financial condition and operating results.. We rely on third parties to provide us with adequate food supply, freight and fulfillment and Internet and networking services, the loss of any of which could cause our revenue, earnings or reputation to suffer.. Food Manufacturers and Other Suppliers. We rely solely on third-party manufacturers to supply all of the food and other products we sell as well as packaging materials. In 2017, approximately 12% and 8% of inventory purchases were from two vendors. If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantity, quality and variety of food, other products and packaging materials in a timely and low-cost manner from our manufacturers, we will be unable to fulfill our customers' orders in a timely manner, which may cause us to lose revenue and market share or incur higher costs, as well as damage the value of our brands.. Freight and Fulfillment. In 2017, 100% of our order fulfillment was handled by one third-party provider.  Also, more than 98% of our direct to consumer orders were shipped by one third-party provider and more than 98% of our orders for retail programs were shipped by another third-party provider. Should these providers be unable to service our needs for even a short duration, our revenue and business could be harmed. Additionally, the cost and time associated with replacing these providers on short notice would add to our costs. Any replacement fulfillment provider would also require startup time, which could cause us to lose sales and market share.. Internet and Networking. Our business also depends on a number of third parties for Internet access and networking, and we have limited control over these third parties. Should our network connections go down, our ability to fulfill orders would be delayed. Further, if our websites or call center become unavailable for a noticeable period of time due to Internet or communication failures, our business could be adversely affected, including harm to our brands and loss of sales.. 12. Therefore, we are dependent on maintaining good relationships with these third parties. The services we require from these parties may be disrupted by a number of factors associated with their businesses, including the following:. •  labor disruptions;. •  delivery problems;. •  financial condition or results of operations;. •  internal inefficiencies;. •  equipment failure;. •  severe weather;. •  fire;. •  natural or man-made disasters; and. •  with respect to our food suppliers, shortages of ingredients or USDA or United States Food and Drug Administration (\"FDA\") compliance issues.. We may be subject to claims that our personnel are unqualified to provide proper weight loss advice.. We offer counseling options from weight loss counselors, registered dietitians and certified diabetes educators with varying levels of training. We may be subject to claims from our customers alleging that our personnel lack the qualifications necessary to provide proper advice regarding weight loss and related topics. We may also be subject to claims that our personnel have provided inappropriate advice or have inappropriately referred or failed to refer customers to health care providers for matters other than weight loss. Such claims could result in lawsuits, damage to our reputation and divert management's attention from our business, which would adversely affect our business.. We may be subject to health or advertising related claims from our customers.. Our weight loss programs do not include medical treatment or medical advice, and we do not engage physicians or nurses to monitor the progress of our customers. Many people who are overweight suffer from other physical conditions, and our target consumers could be considered a high-risk population. A customer who experiences health problems could allege or bring a lawsuit against us on the basis that those problems were caused or worsened by participating in our weight management programs or by consuming one or more of our individual products. For example, our predecessor businesses suffered substantial losses due to health-related claims and related publicity. Further, customers who allege that they were deceived by any statements that we made in advertising or labeling could bring a lawsuit against us under consumer protection laws. Currently, we are neither subject to any such allegations nor have we been named in any such litigation. If we were subject to any such claims, while we would defend ourselves against such claims, we may ultimately be unsuccessful in our defense. Also, defending ourselves against such claims, regardless of their merit and ultimate outcome, would likely be lengthy and costly, and adversely affect our results of operations. Further, our general liability insurance may not cover claims of these types.. The weight management industry is highly competitive. If any of our competitors or a new entrant into the market with significant resources pursues a weight management program similar to ours, our business could be significantly affected.. Competition is intense in the weight management industry and we must remain competitive in the areas of program efficacy, price, taste, customer service and brand recognition. Our competitors include companies selling pharmaceutical products and weight loss programs, digital tools and wearable trackers, as well as a wide variety of diet foods and meal replacement bars and shakes, appetite suppressants and nutritional supplements. Some of our competitors are significantly larger than we are and have substantially greater resources. Our business could be adversely affected if someone with significant resources decided to imitate our weight management programs. For example, if a major supplier of pre-packaged foods decided to enter this market and made a substantial investment of resources in advertising and training diet counselors, our business could be significantly affected. Any increased competition from new entrants into our industry or any increased success by existing competition could result in reductions in our sales or prices, or both, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We are dependent on certain third-party agreements for a percentage of revenue.. We have contractual agreements with certain third-party retailers. Under the agreements, these third parties control when and how often our products are offered and we are not guaranteed any minimum level of sales. If any third party elects not to renew their agreement with us or reduces the promotion of our products, our revenue will suffer. In addition, our third-party retailers may decide. 13. to stop selling our products upon written notice, which may result in an increased level of reclamation claims. In the event any retailer terminates its relationship with us and the level of reclamation claims exceeds the estimated amount reserved on our balance sheet at the time of sale to the retailer, we will have to record an expense for the excess claims, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, in certain instances, we could be prohibited from selling our products through competitors of these third parties for a specified time after the termination of the agreements.. New weight loss products or services may put us at a competitive disadvantage.. On an ongoing basis, many existing and potential providers of weight loss solutions, including many pharmaceutical firms with significantly greater financial and operating resources than we have, are developing new products and services. The creation of a weight loss solution, such as a drug therapy, that is perceived to be safe, effective and \"easier\" than a portion-controlled meal plan would put us at a disadvantage in the marketplace and our results of operations could be negatively affected.. We may be subject to litigation from our competitors.. Our competitors may pursue litigation against us based on our advertising or other marketing practices regardless of its merit and chances of success, especially if we engage in comparative advertising, which includes advertising that directly or indirectly mentions a competitor or a competitor's weight loss program in comparison to our programs. While we would defend ourselves against any such claims, our defense may ultimately be unsuccessful. Also, defending against such claims, regardless of their merit and ultimate outcome, may be lengthy and costly, strain our resources and divert management's attention from their core responsibilities, which would have a negative impact on our business.. Our business is subject to online security risks, including security breaches and identity theft.. Unauthorized users who penetrate our information security could misappropriate proprietary or customer information or data or cause interruptions to the product offerings on our websites. As a result, it may become necessary to expend significant additional amounts of capital and resources to protect against, or to alleviate, problems caused by unauthorized users. These expenditures, however, may not prove to be a timely remedy against unauthorized users who are able to penetrate our information security. In addition to purposeful security breaches, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could adversely affect our computer systems and, in turn, harm our business.. A significant number of states require that customers be notified if a security breach results in the disclosure of their personal financial account or other information. Additional states and governmental entities are considering such \"notice\" laws. In addition, other public disclosure laws may require that material security breaches be reported. If we experience a security breach and such notice or public disclosure is required in the future, our reputation and our business may be harmed.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and utilize proprietary and customer information and data. Privacy concerns among prospective and existing customers regarding our use of such information or data collected on our websites or through our services and products, such as weight management information, financial data, email addresses and home addresses, could keep them from using our websites or purchasing our services or products. We currently face certain legal obligations regarding the manner in which we treat such information and data. Businesses have been criticized by privacy groups and governmental bodies for their use and handling of such information and data. Currently, a significant number of our customers authorize us to bill their credit cards directly for fees charged by us. We rely on third-party software products to secure our credit card transactions. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect consumer information and prevent fraudulent payment transactions and other security breaches, failure to prevent or mitigate such fraud or breaches or changes in industry standards or regulations may adversely affect our business and operating results or cause us to lose our ability to accept credit cards as a form of payment and result in chargebacks of the fraudulently charged amounts. Furthermore, widespread credit card fraud may lessen our customers' willingness to purchase our products on our websites.. We may experience fluctuations in our operating results which may cause our stock price to be volatile.. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations. Our business is seasonal, with revenue generally greatest in the first calendar quarter and weakest in the fourth quarter. The market price of our common stock is subject to fluctuations in response to our operating results, general trends in the weight loss industry, announcements by our competitors, our ability to meet or exceed securities analysts' expectations, recommendations by securities analysts, the condition of the financial markets and other factors. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and cause it to fluctuate significantly.. 14. Acquisitions and the pursuit of new business opportunities present risks, and we may be unable to achieve the financial and strategic goals of any acquisition or new business.. A component of our growth strategy has been and may continue to be to acquire existing businesses or pursue other business opportunities in the market for weight management and fitness products and other complimentary products and services. These types of transactions will face a number of risks and uncertainties, including:. •  difficulties in integrating newly acquired or newly started businesses into existing operations, which may result in increasing operating costs that would adversely affect our operating income and earnings;. •  the risk that our current and planned facilities, information systems, personnel and controls will not be adequate to support our future operations;. •  diversion of management time and capital resources from our existing businesses, which could adversely affect their performance and our operating results;. •  dependence on key management personnel of acquired or newly started businesses and the risk that we will be unable to integrate or retain such personnel;. •  the risk that the new products or services we may introduce or begin offering, whether as a result of internal expansion or business acquisitions, will not gain acceptance among consumers and existing customers;. •  the risk that new efforts may have a detrimental effect on our brands;. •  the risk that we will face competition from established or larger competitors in the new markets we may enter, which could adversely affect the financial performance of any businesses we might acquire or start; and. •  the risk that the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or of the commencement of any new business may not be realized, in which event we will not be able to achieve any return on our investment in that new business.. Consummating these transactions could also result in the incurrence of additional debt and related interest expense, as well as unforeseen contingent liabilities, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may also issue additional equity in connection with these transactions, which would dilute our existing stockholders.. We have and expect to continue to launch new weight loss programs and brands which may not be successful due to the failure of such programs or brands to achieve anticipated levels of market acceptance, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. There are a number of risks inherent in any new program or brand introduction, which could prevent us from achieving revenue growth and increasing our overall market share in the commercial weight loss market. Any new program or brand may fail to achieve the anticipated level of market acceptance or appeal to consumer tastes and preferences. In addition, introduction costs, including product testing and marketing, may be greater than anticipated. If the new program or brand is not successful or falls short of anticipated market acceptance, we may be adversely affected by continued expenses and the diversion of management time to this initiative. Any or all of such events could have adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we do not continue to receive referrals from existing customers, our customer acquisition cost may increase.. We rely on word-of-mouth advertising for a portion of our new customers. If our brands suffer or the number of customers acquired through referrals drops due to other circumstances, our costs associated with acquiring new customers and generating revenue will increase, which will, in turn, have an adverse effect on our profitability.. We use third-party marketing vendors to promote our products. If the spokespersons affiliated with the third-party marketing vendors suffer adverse publicity or elect to not renew, our revenue could be adversely affected.. Our marketing strategy depends in part on celebrity spokespersons, as well as customer spokespersons, to promote our weight loss programs. Any of these spokespersons may become the subject of adverse news reports, negative publicity or otherwise be alienated from a segment of our customer base, whether weight loss related or not. If so, such events may reduce the effectiveness of his or her endorsement and, in turn, adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. Additionally, if a spokesperson elects not to renew their agreement with us, our revenue may suffer.. 15. Third parties may infringe on our brands, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, which may have an adverse impact on our business.. We currently rely on a combination of trademark and other intellectual property laws and confidentiality procedures to establish and protect our proprietary rights, including our brands. If we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, the value of our brands, services and products could be diminished and our business may suffer. Our precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property. Any legal action that we may bring to protect our brands and other intellectual property could be unsuccessful and expensive and could divert management's attention from other business concerns. In addition, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property, especially in Internet-related businesses, are uncertain and evolving. We cannot assure you that these evolving legal standards will sufficiently protect our intellectual property rights in the future.. We may in the future be subject to intellectual property rights claims.. Third parties may in the future make claims against us alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property claims, regardless of merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to litigate or settle and could significantly divert management's attention from other business concerns. In addition, if we were unable to successfully defend against such claims, we may have to pay damages, stop selling the service or product or stop using the software, technology or content found to be in violation of a third party's rights, seek a license for the infringing service, product, software, technology or content or develop alternative non-infringing services, products, software, technology or content. If we cannot license on reasonable terms, develop alternatives or stop using the service, product, software, technology or content for any infringing aspects of our business, we may be forced to limit our service and product offerings. Any of these results could reduce our revenue and our ability to compete effectively, increase our costs or harm our business.. Our credit agreement contains financial and other covenants. The failure to comply with such covenants could have an adverse effect on us.. Our credit agreement contains certain financial and other covenants including a minimum consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio (applicable if there are outstanding borrowings), and limitations on, among other things, liens, indebtedness, certain acquisitions, consolidations and sales of assets. There were no borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2017. Any failure to comply with the restrictions of the credit agreement may result in an event of default under the agreement.. We are dependent on our key executive officers for future success. If we lose the services of any of our key executive officers and we are unable to timely retain a qualified replacement, our business could be harmed.. Our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of our key executive officers. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could harm our business. If any key executive officers left us or were seriously injured and became unable to work, our business could be harmed.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation may deter or delay an acquisition of us or prevent a change in control, even if an acquisition or a change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders.. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation (as amended) may have the effect of deterring unsolicited takeovers or delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control of us, even if our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. In addition, these provisions may limit the ability of stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests.. Our certificate of incorporation (as amended) permits our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval upon such terms as the Board of Directors may determine. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be junior to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding common stock. The issuance of a substantial number of preferred shares could adversely affect the price of our common stock.. Changes in consumer preferences could negatively impact our operating results.. Our programs feature frozen and ready-to-go food selections, which we believe offer convenience and value to our customers. Our continued success depends, to a large degree, upon the continued popularity of our programs versus various other weight loss, weight management and fitness regimens, such as low carbohydrate diets, appetite suppressants and diets featured in the published media. Changes in consumer tastes and preferences away from our frozen or ready-to-go food and support and counseling services, and any. 16. failure to provide innovative responses to these changes, may have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. Our success is also dependent on our food innovation including maintaining a robust array of food items and improving the quality of existing items. If we do not continually expand our food items or provide customers with items that are desirable in taste and quality, our business could be harmed.. The weight loss industry is subject to adverse publicity, which could harm our business.. The weight loss industry receives adverse publicity from time to time, and the occurrence of such publicity could harm us, even if the adverse publicity is not directly related to us. In the early 1990s, our predecessor businesses were subject to extremely damaging adverse publicity relating to a large number of lawsuits alleging that the Nutrisystem® weight loss program in use at that time led to gall bladder disease. This publicity was a factor that contributed to the bankruptcy of our predecessor businesses in 1993. In addition, our predecessor businesses were severely impacted by significant litigation and damaging publicity related to their customers' use of fen-phen as an appetite suppressant, which the FDA ordered withdrawn from the market in September 1997. The significant decline in business resulting from the fen-phen problems caused our predecessor businesses to close all of their company-owned weight loss centers.. Congressional hearings about practices in the weight loss industry have also resulted in adverse publicity and a consequent decline in the revenue of weight loss businesses. Future research reports or publicity that is perceived as unfavorable or that question certain weight loss programs, products or methods could result in a decline in our revenue. Because of our dependence on consumer perceptions, adverse publicity associated with illness or other undesirable effects resulting from the consumption of our products or similar products by competitors, whether or not accurate, could also damage customer confidence in our weight loss program and result in a decline in revenue. Adverse publicity could arise even if the unfavorable effects associated with weight loss products or services resulted from the user's failure to use such products or services appropriately.. Our industry is subject to governmental regulation that could increase in severity and hurt results of operations.. Our industry is subject to federal, state and other governmental regulation. Certain federal and state agencies, such as the Federal Trade Commission (the \"FTC\"), regulate and enforce such laws relating to advertising, disclosures to consumers, privacy, consumer pricing and billing arrangements and other consumer protection matters. A determination by a federal or state agency, or a court, that any of our practices do not meet existing or new laws or regulations could result in liability, adverse publicity and restrictions on our business operations. Some advertising practices in the weight loss industry, in particular, have led to investigations from time to time by the FTC and other governmental agencies and many companies in the weight loss industry, including our predecessor businesses, have entered into consent decrees with the FTC relating to weight loss claims and other advertising practices. In addition, the FTC's Guides Concerning the Use of Endorsements and Testimonials in Advertising require us and other weight loss companies to use a statement as to what the typical weight loss a customer can expect to achieve on our programs when using a customer's weight loss testimonial in advertising. Federal and state regulation of advertising practices generally, and in the weight loss industry in particular, may increase in scope or severity in the future, which could have a material adverse impact on our business.. Other aspects of our industry are also subject to government regulation. For example, the manufacturing, labeling and distribution of food products, including dietary supplements, are subject to strict USDA and FDA requirements and food manufacturers are subject to rigorous inspection and other requirements of the USDA and FDA, and companies operating in foreign markets must comply with those countries' requirements for proper labeling, controls on hygiene, food preparation and other matters. If federal, state, local or foreign regulation of our industry increases for any reason, then we may be required to incur significant expenses, as well as modify our operations to comply with new regulatory requirements, which could harm our operating results. Additionally, remedies available in any potential administrative or regulatory actions may include product recalls and requiring us to refund amounts paid by all affected customers or pay other damages, which could be substantial.. Laws and regulations directly applicable to communications, operations or commerce over the Internet such as those governing intellectual property, privacy, libel and taxation, are becoming more prevalent and some remain unsettled. If we are required to comply with new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations, or if we are unable to comply with these laws, regulations or interpretations, our business could be adversely affected.. Future laws or regulations, including laws or regulations affecting our marketing and advertising practices, relations with consumers, employees, service providers, or our services and products, may have an adverse impact on us.. 17. The sale of ingested products involves product liability and other risks.. Like other distributors of products that are ingested, we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims if the use of our products results in illness or injury. The foods that we resell in the U.S. are subject to laws and regulations, including those administered by the USDA and FDA that establish manufacturing practices and quality standards for food products. Product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on our business as existing insurance coverage may not be adequate. Distributors of weight loss food products, including dietary supplements, as well as our predecessor businesses, have been named as defendants in product liability lawsuits from time to time. The successful assertion or settlement of an uninsured claim, a significant number of insured claims or a claim exceeding the limits of our insurance coverage would harm us by adding costs to the business and by diverting the attention of senior management from the operation of the business. We may also be subject to claims that our products contain contaminants, are improperly labeled, include inadequate instructions as to use or inadequate warnings covering interactions with other substances. Product liability litigation, even if not meritorious, is very expensive and could also entail adverse publicity for us and reduce our revenue. In addition, the products we distribute, or certain components of those products, may be subject to product recalls or other deficiencies. Any negative publicity associated with these actions would adversely affect our brand and may result in decreased product sales and, as a result, lower revenue and profits.. The effects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on our business have not yet been fully analyzed and could have an adverse effect on our net income.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") was signed into law. We are continuing to analyze the Tax Act and its possible effects on us, including on our subsidiaries. The Tax Act reduces the federal corporate tax rate to 21% from 35%, among other things, which has caused us to write-down a portion of our deferred tax assets. The changes included in the Tax Act are broad and complex and could be subject to further interpretation. The final transition impacts of the Tax Act may differ from the amounts provided elsewhere in this report, possibly materially, and our expectation of our future effective tax rate may also differ, due to changes in interpretations of the Tax Act, any legislative action to address questions that arise because of the Tax Act or any changes in accounting standards for income taxes or related interpretations in response to the Tax Act. Based on these factors we cannot determine at this time the full effects of the Tax Act on our business and future financial results."
