[1] "Item 1A.Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Risk factors that could cause actual results to differ from our expectations and that could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations are set forth below and elsewhere in this report. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Under these circumstances, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Further, additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business, operations, liquidity and stock price materially and adversely. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this report before you decide to invest in our common stock.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. To be commercially successful, we must effectively demonstrate to spine surgeons the value proposition of our products and procedural solutions compared to those of our competitors.. We focus on marketing our products and procedural solutions to spine surgeons, because of the role that they play in determining the course of patient treatment. Spine surgeons may not widely adopt our products and procedural solutions unless we are able to effectively educate and train them as to the distinctive characteristics, perceived benefits, safety and cost-effectiveness of our offerings as compared to those of our competitors.  We believe that the most effective way to introduce and build market demand for our products and procedural solutions is by directly training spine surgeons in their use. If surgeons are not properly trained, they may misuse or ineffectively use our products and procedural solutions. This may also result in unsatisfactory patient outcomes, patient injury, negative publicity or lawsuits against us, any of which could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 15. Table of Contents. Surgeons may be hesitant to use our products and procedural solutions for the following reasons, among others:. •  lack of surgeon experience with minimally-disruptive surgical products and procedures;. •  lack or perceived lack of evidence supporting additional patient benefits;. •  perceived liability risks generally associated with the use of new products and procedures;. •  existing relationships with competitors and distributors;. •  limited or lack of availability of coverage and reimbursement within healthcare payment systems;. •  increased competition in lateral procedural offerings;. •  lack or perceived lack of differentiation among lateral procedures;. •  costs associated with the purchase of new products and equipment; and. •  the time commitment that may be required for training.. If we are not able to effectively demonstrate to spine surgeons the value proposition of our products and procedural solutions, or if spine surgeons adopt competing products into their practice, our sales could significantly decrease or fail to increase, which could adversely impact our profitability and cash flow. In addition, we believe recommendations and support of our offerings by influential spine surgeons and other key opinion leaders are essential for market acceptance and adoption. If we are not successful in obtaining such support, surgeons may not use our products and procedural solutions, and we may not achieve expected sales or profitability.. Our future success depends on our strategy of obsoleting our products and our ability to timely acquire, develop and introduce new products or product enhancements that will be accepted by the market.. An important part of our business strategy is to stay ahead of our competitors by obsoleting our current offerings with new and enhanced products and technologies. As such, our success will depend in part on our ability to acquire, develop and introduce new products and enhancements to our existing products to keep pace with changes in technology and market demand, as well as physician, hospital and healthcare provider practices.  The success of any new product offering or enhancement to an existing product will depend on numerous factors, including our ability to:. •  properly identify and anticipate surgeon and patient needs;. •  develop and introduce new products or product enhancements in a timely and cost-effective manner;. •  adequately protect our intellectual property and avoid infringing upon the intellectual property rights of third parties;. •  demonstrate the safety and efficacy of new products through the conduct of clinical investigations or the collection of existing relevant clinical data;. •  qualify for adequate reimbursement from third-party payers; and. •  obtain the necessary regulatory clearances or approvals for new products or product enhancements.. In addition, our research and development efforts may require a substantial investment of time and resources before we are adequately able to determine the commercial or technical viability of a new product, technology, or other innovation. Even if we are able to develop enhancements or new generation products successfully, these enhancements or new generation products may not generate sufficient demand or produce sales in excess of the costs of development, which would cause our results of operations to suffer. It is also important that we carefully manage our introduction of new and enhanced products. If potential customers delay purchases until new or enhanced products are available, it could negatively impact our sales.  In addition, to the extent we have excess or obsolete inventory as we transition to new products, it would result in margin reducing write-offs for obsolete inventory, and our results of operations may suffer.. Furthermore, our product development strategy is based on certain assumptions, including assumptions about various demographic trends and trends in the treatment of spine disorders, which could affect the demand for our products and procedural solutions. However, these trends are uncertain and actual demand for our products and procedural solutions could differ materially from projected demand if our assumptions regarding these trends prove to be incorrect or do not materialize, or if alternative treatments to those offered by our products gain widespread acceptance.. 16. Table of Contents. We operate in a highly competitive market segment that is subject to rapid change, and if we are unable to compete successfully, our sales and operating results may suffer.. The market for spine surgery products and procedures is intensely competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on our ability to develop proprietary products that reach the market in a timely manner, receive adequate reimbursement and are safer, less invasive and less expensive than those of our competitors. With respect to our nerve monitoring systems, we compete with Medtronic and Vyaire Medical (formerly VIASYS Healthcare, a division of Becton, Dickinson and Company), each of which have significantly greater resources than we do. Our IOM services business competes with Specialty Care and numerous smaller and regional nerve monitoring companies. With respect to MaXcess, our minimally-disruptive surgical system, our largest competitors are Medtronic, DePuy/Synthes, Stryker Spine, Globus Medical, K2M and Zimmer Biomet Spine. We compete with many of the same companies with respect to our other products. We also compete with numerous smaller companies with respect to our implant products, many of whom have a significant regional market presence. At any time, these companies and other potential market entrants may develop alternative treatments, products or procedures for the treatment of spine disorders that compete directly or indirectly with our offerings.  In addition, they may gain a market advantage by developing and patenting competitive products or processes earlier than we can or by obtaining regulatory clearances or market registrations more rapidly than we can.. Many of our competitors have greater resources than we have.. Many of our larger competitors are either publicly traded or divisions or subsidiaries of publicly traded companies, and enjoy several competitive advantages over us, including:. •  significantly greater name recognition;. •  established relationships with a greater number of spine surgeons, hospitals, other healthcare providers and third-party payers;. •  larger and more well-established distribution networks domestically and/or internationally;. •  products supported by long-term clinical data;. •  greater experience in obtaining and maintaining FDA and other regulatory approvals or clearances for products and product enhancements;. •  greater experience in, and resources for, launching, marketing, distributing and selling products, including capital equipment;. •  greater ability to cross-sell their products or create bundled offerings to incentivize hospitals and surgeons to use their products;. •  more expansive portfolios of intellectual property rights; and. •  greater financial assets, cash flow, capital markets access and other resources for product research and development, sales and marketing, and litigation.. Because of the significant size of the potential market for spine surgery products and procedures, we anticipate that existing competitors will continue to dedicate substantial resources to developing competing products. If we are unable to compete effectively, our sales and operating results may suffer.. Third-party reimbursement policies and practices, including non-coverage decisions, can negatively impact our ability to sell our products and services.. Sales of our products and procedural solutions depend on the availability of adequate reimbursement from third-party payers. Future third-party reimbursement for healthcare costs may be subject to changes in policies and practices, such as more restrictive criteria to qualify for surgery coverage or reduction in payment amounts to hospitals and surgeons for approved surgery and IOM services, both in the United States and internationally. Further, certain third-party payers have stated non-coverage decisions concerning our technologies and services. These actions could significantly alter our ability to sell our products and procedural solutions. The continuing efforts of governmental authorities, insurance companies, and other payers of healthcare costs to contain or reduce costs could lead to patients being unable to obtain approval for payment from these third-party payers. Changes in legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third-party payers may adversely affect the demand for our products and services as healthcare providers generally rely on third-party payers to reimburse all or part of the costs and fees associated with the procedures performed with these devices and services. Likewise, spine surgeons, neurophysiologists and their supervising physicians rely primarily on third-party reimbursement for the surgical or monitoring fees they earn. Spine surgeons are unlikely to use our products and services if they do not receive reimbursement adequate to cover the cost of their involvement in surgical procedures.. 17. Table of Contents. Further, as we continue to grow our international business, market acceptance of our products and procedural solutions in a particular foreign market may also depend, in part, upon the availability of coverage and reimbursement within the applicable healthcare payment system. Reimbursement and healthcare payment systems in international markets vary significantly by country. As in the United States, our products and procedural solutions may not obtain coverage and reimbursement approvals in a timely manner, if at all, in a particular foreign market. In addition, even if we are able to obtain country-specific coverage and reimbursement approvals, we could incur considerable expense to do so. Our failure to obtain such coverage and approvals would negatively affect market acceptance of our products and procedural solutions in the international markets in which such failure occurs and the expenses incurred in connection with obtaining such coverage and approvals could outweigh the benefits of obtaining them.. Pricing pressure from our competitors, hospital customers and insurance providers can negatively impact our ability to sell our products and services.. The market for spine surgery products is large and has attracted numerous new companies and technologies. As some companies have sought to compete based on price, it has created pricing pressure, which we expect to continue in the future.  In addition, we may experience decreasing prices for our products due to pricing pressure from our hospital customers and insurance providers. Because healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade, numerous initiatives and reforms have resulted in efforts to drive down prices.  As hospitals look to reduce costs, including by aggregating purchasing decisions and through industry consolidation, they may demand lower pricing and limit their number of suppliers.  If competitive forces drive down the prices we are able to charge for our products, our profit margins will shrink, which will adversely affect our ability to maintain our profitability and to invest in and grow our business.. In addition, as we expand our procedural solutions offerings to include new technologies, we expect that sales and leases of capital equipment will become a larger portion of our revenues. Demand for capital equipment can be affected by changes in the budgets of healthcare organizations, the timing of spending under these budgets and conflicting spending priorities. In addition, the implementation of healthcare reform in the United States, which may reduce or eliminate the amount that healthcare organizations may be reimbursed for capital equipment, could further impact demand. Any such decreases in expenditures by these healthcare organizations and decreases in demand for our capital equipment could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. The proliferation of physician-owned distributorships, as well as aggressive competitive tactics to attract away key customers, could result in increased pricing pressure and harm our ability to maintain or grow revenue.. Physician-owned distributorships, or PODs, are medical device distributors that are owned, directly or indirectly, by physicians.  These physicians derive revenue from selling or arranging for the sale of medical devices via their PODs that are used in the procedures they perform on their patients. We do not sell or distribute any of our products to PODs. However, the proliferation of PODs may reduce our market opportunities and may hamper our ability to grow or maintain revenue. PODs can have significant market knowledge and access to the surgeons who use our products, and we have seen increasingly aggressive competitive tactics from PODs focused on attracting customers away from us.  To the extent these tactics are successful, our revenue may materially suffer.. Quality or safety issues affecting our products could harm our reputation, result in liability and adversely impact our business.. In the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality and safety issues that may arise with our products, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products. Although we have established internal procedures to minimize risks that may arise from quality and safety issues, we may not be able to eliminate or mitigate occurrences of these issues and associated liabilities. Manufacturing flaws, component failures, design defects, or inadequate disclosure of product-related information could result in an unsafe condition or the injury or death of a patient. These problems could lead to a recall of, or issuance of a safety alert relating to our products and result in significant costs and negative publicity. An adverse event involving one of our products could result in reduced market acceptance and demand for our products, and could harm our reputation and our ability to market our products in the future. In some circumstances, adverse events arising from or associated with the design, manufacture or marketing of our products could result in the suspension or delay of regulatory reviews of our applications for new product approvals or clearances. We may also voluntarily undertake a recall of our products, temporarily shut down production lines, or place products on a shipping hold based on internal safety and quality monitoring and testing data.. While we have a network of quality systems throughout our business lines and facilities, quality and safety issues may occur with respect to any of our products. A quality or safety issue may result in a public warning letter from the FDA, or potentially a consent decree. In addition, we may be subject to product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions, injunctions to halt manufacturing and distribution of products, civil or criminal sanctions, refusal of a government to grant clearances or approvals or delays in granting such clearances or approvals, import detentions of products made outside the United States, restrictions on operations or withdrawal or suspension of existing approvals. Any of the foregoing events could disrupt our business and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. 18. Table of Contents. The safety of many of our products is not yet supported by long-term clinical data and many of our products may therefore prove to be less safe and effective than initially thought.. As a consequence of our strategy to obsolete our own products with new technologies, many of our products do not have a long history of use. Further, many of our products are subject to the FDA's 510(k) premarket notification clearance process in the United States and similar regulatory processes in other countries, which typically do not require clinical data. Accordingly, many of our products currently lack the breadth of published long-term clinical data supporting their safety and effectiveness. For these reasons, spine surgeons may be slow to adopt our products, we may not have comparative data that our competitors have or are generating, and we may be subject to greater regulatory and product liability risks.. Further, future patient studies or clinical experience may indicate that treatment with our products does not improve patient outcomes. Such results would reduce demand for our products, affect sustainable reimbursement from third-party payers, significantly reduce our ability to achieve expected revenue and could prevent us from sustaining or increasing profitability. Moreover, if future results and experience indicate that our products cause unexpected or serious complications or other unforeseen negative effects, we could be subject to significant legal liability and harm to our business reputation. The spine medical device market has been particularly prone to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the testing, manufacture and sale of medical devices and products for spine surgery procedures.. We may engage in strategic transactions, including acquisitions, investments, joint development agreements or divestitures that may have an adverse effect on our business.. We may pursue transactions, including acquisitions of complementary businesses, technology licensing arrangements and joint development agreements to expand our product offerings and geographic presence as part of our business strategy, which could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. We may also consider divesting non-core product lines or out-licensing our technology. We may not complete transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and we may not realize the expected benefits of any acquisition, license arrangement, joint development agreement or divestiture. Other companies may compete with us for these strategic opportunities. We also could experience negative effects on our results of operations and financial condition from acquisition-related charges, amortization of intangible assets and asset impairment charges, and other issues that could arise in connection with, or as a result of, the acquisition of an acquired company or business, including issues related to internal control over financial reporting, regulatory or compliance issues and potential adverse short-term effects on results of operations through increased costs or otherwise. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following:. •  difficulties in finding suitable partners or acquisition candidates;. •  difficulties in obtaining financing on favorable terms, if at all;. •  difficulties in completing transactions on favorable terms, if at all;. •  the possibility that we will pay more than the value we derive from the acquisition, which could result in future non-cash impairment charges and/or a dilution of future earnings per share;. •  difficulties in integration of the operations, technologies, personnel, and products of acquired companies, which may require significant attention of our management team that otherwise would be available for the ongoing development of our business;. •  the applicability of additional laws, regulations and policies that have particular application to our acquisitions, including those relating to patient privacy, insurance fraud and abuse, false claims, prohibitions against self-referrals, anti-kickbacks, direct billing practices, HIPAA compliance, and prohibitions against the corporate practice of medicine and fee-splitting;. •  the assumption of certain known and unknown liabilities of acquired companies;. •  the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or future write-offs of intangible assets or goodwill;. •  difficulties in retaining key relationships with employees, customers, partners and suppliers of an acquired company; and. •  difficulties in operating in different business markets where we may not have historical experience.. Any of these factors could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations or financial position. Further, past and potential acquisitions entail risks, uncertainties and potential disruptions to our business, especially where we have limited experience as a company developing or marketing a particular product or technology. Following any acquisition, we must integrate the new business, which can be expensive and time-consuming. Failure to timely and successfully integrate acquired businesses may result in non-compliance with regulatory or other requirements and may result in unexpected costs, including as a result of inadequate cost containment and failure to fully realize expected synergies. As a result of any of the foregoing, we may not realize the expected benefit from any acquisition. If we cannot integrate acquired businesses, products or technologies, our business, financial conditions and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. 19. Table of Contents. In addition, we may face additional risks related to foreign acquisitions.  Foreign acquisitions involve unique risks in addition to those mentioned above, including those related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries.. Any divestitures may result in a dilutive impact to our future earnings, as well as significant write-offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Divestitures could involve additional risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the disruption of our business and the potential loss of key employees. We may not be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that we encounter in divesting a product or technology.. Healthcare policy changes may have a material adverse effect on us.. Political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry to fundamental changes. In March 2010, comprehensive healthcare reform legislation was signed into law in the United States through the passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (\"ACA\"). Among other initiatives, the legislation implemented a 2.3% annual excise tax on the sales of certain medical devices in the United States, effective January 2013.  This excise tax was suspended for years 2016 through 2019, but will be reinstated as of January 1, 2020, absent further legislative action to repeal  -  or extend the suspension of  -  the tax.  As this excise tax is recorded as a selling, general and administrative expense, it will have an adverse effect on our operating expenses and results of operations. In addition, the ACA significantly alters Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements for medical services and medical devices, which could result in downward pricing pressure and decreased demand for our products. As additional provisions of healthcare reform are implemented, we anticipate that Congress, regulatory agencies and certain state legislatures will continue to review and assess alternative healthcare delivery systems and payment methods with an objective of ultimately reducing healthcare costs and expanding access. We cannot predict with certainty what healthcare initiatives, if any, will be implemented at the state level, or what ultimate effect federal healthcare reform or any future legislation or regulation may have on our customers' purchasing decisions regarding our products and services. However, the implementation of new legislation and regulation may lower reimbursements for our products, reduce medical procedure volumes and adversely affect our business, possibly materially.. Our IOM business exposes us to risks inherent with the sale of services.. Our IOM services and support business exposes us to different risks than our other products and technologies. Through our NuVasive Clinical Services business, including the Biotronic NeuroNetwork business acquired in July 2016 and the SafePassage business acquired in January 2018, we provide onsite and remote monitoring of the neurological systems of patients undergoing spinal and brain-related surgeries.  Our neurophysiologists are present in the operating room during procedures and work in partnership with supervising physicians who remotely oversee and interpret neurophysiological data gathered via broadband transmission over the Internet.  Providing this service subjects us to malpractice exposure.  In addition, given the reliance on technology, any disruption to our neuromonitoring equipment or the Internet could harm our service operations and our reputation among our customers. Further, any disruption to our computer systems could adversely impact the performance of our neurophysiologists.. In addition, IOM services are directly billed to Medicare and commercial payers, which brings with it additional risks associated with proper billing practice regulations, HIPAA compliance, corporate practice of medicine laws, and new collections risk associated with third-party payers. Due to the breadth of many healthcare laws and regulations, our IOM business could also be subject to healthcare fraud regulation and enforcement by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business, including under the Anti-Kickback Statute, the federal false claims laws and state law equivalents.  If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described in the previous sentence or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results.. As we expand our offerings to include capital equipment and invest in related resources and expertise, we are exposed to additional risks.. As we expand our procedural solutions offerings to include new technologies, including LessRay, we expect that sales and leases of capital equipment will become a larger portion of our revenues. We do not have a long history of selling, leasing or servicing capital equipment, and we intend to invest in building resources and expertise in this area.  We may not generate sufficient revenue to offset the expenses associated with this investment. There can be no assurance that our capital equipment strategy will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. 20. Table of Contents. In addition, approval processes of healthcare organizations for the purchase or lease of capital equipment can be lengthy, and such organizations may delay or accelerate system purchases or leases in conjunction with their budget timelines.  As a result, it is difficult for us to predict the length of capital sales cycles and, therefore, the exact timing of capital sales, which may cause fluctuations in our financial results.  Further, demand for capital equipment can be affected by changes in the budgets of healthcare organizations and conflicting spending priorities. Any such decreases in expenditures by these healthcare organizations and decreases in demand for our capital equipment could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our employee shareowners, consultants, distributors and other commercial partners may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including non-compliance with regulatory standards and requirements.. We are exposed to the risk that our employee shareowners, consultants, distributors and other commercial partners may engage in fraudulent or illegal activity. Misconduct by these parties could include intentional, reckless or negligent conduct or other unauthorized activities that violate the regulations of the FDA and non-U.S. regulators, including those laws requiring the reporting of true, complete and accurate information to such regulators, manufacturing standards, healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations in the United States and abroad or laws that require the true, complete and accurate reporting of financial information or data. In particular, sales, marketing and business arrangements in the healthcare industry, including the sale of medical devices, are subject to extensive laws and regulations intended to prevent fraud, misconduct, kickbacks, self-dealing and other abusive practices. These laws and regulations may restrict or prohibit a wide range of pricing, discounting, marketing and promotion, sales commission, customer incentive programs and other business arrangements. It is not always possible to identify and deter misconduct by employees, sales agencies, distributors and other third parties, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to comply with these laws or regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could result in the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions, including the imposition of civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, monetary fines, possible exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs, contractual damages, reputational harm, diminished profits and future earnings and curtailment of operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our results of operations. Whether or not we are successful in defending against such actions or investigations, we could incur substantial costs, including legal fees, and divert the attention of management in defending ourselves against any of these claims or investigations.. Risks Related to our Commercial Operations and Plans for Future Growth. If we are unable to maintain and expand our network of direct and independent sales representatives, we may not be able to generate anticipated sales.. In the United States, we sell our products through a combination of exclusive independent sales agents and directly-employed sales personnel. Our international sales force is comprised of independent sales agents, directly-employed sales personnel, as well as exclusive and non-exclusive independent third-party distributors. We expect these sales representatives to develop long-lasting relationships with the customers they serve. If our sales representatives fail to adequately promote, market and sell our products, or fail to develop lasting relationships with customers, our sales could significantly decrease or fail to increase. Further, we may terminate sales representatives from time to time, which could subject us to claims and lawsuits. Asserting or defending against these types of claims and lawsuits may result in significant legal fees and expenses, and if we are unsuccessful, we could be liable for damages.. We face significant challenges and risks in managing our geographically dispersed distribution network and retaining the individuals who make up that network. In the past, we have experienced departures of sales representatives, which have had a negative impact on our results. If sales representatives were to depart and be retained by one of our competitors, we may be unable to prevent them from helping competitors solicit business from our existing customers, which could further adversely affect our sales. In addition, as we expand into new markets, it may be difficult to find sales representatives with the appropriate expertise or it may take time for new sales representatives to reach full operational effectiveness and generate expected revenue. Because of the intense competition for their services, we may be unable to recruit or retain sales representatives to work with us. Failure to hire or retain qualified sales representatives would prevent us from expanding our business and generating sales.. We may be unable to manage our future growth effectively, which could make it difficult to execute our business strategy.. We intend to grow our business operations and we may experience periods of rapid growth and expansion. This anticipated future growth could create a strain on our organizational, administrative and operational infrastructure, including manufacturing operations, quality control, technical support and customer service, sales force management and general and financial administration. We may not be able to maintain the quality or delivery timelines of our products or satisfy customer demand as it grows. Our ability to manage our growth properly will require us to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, as well as our reporting systems and procedures.. 21. Table of Contents. If our commercial operations and sales volume grow, we will need to continue to increase our workflow capacity for manufacturing, customer service, billing and general process improvements and expand our internal quality assurance program, among other things. We will also need to purchase additional equipment, some of which can take several months or more to procure, set up and validate, and increase our manufacturing, maintenance, software and computing capacity to meet increased demand. These increases in scale, expansion of personnel, purchases of equipment or process enhancements may not be successfully implemented.. Our reliance on a limited number of suppliers and manufacturers could limit our ability to meet demand for our products in a timely manner or within our budget.. While we are increasing our capacity to self-manufacture many of our products, we continue to rely on a limited number of third-party suppliers and manufacturers to supply and manufacture our products, and we may not be able to find replacements or immediately transition to alternative suppliers or manufacturers. Many of our key products are manufactured at single locations, with limited alternate facilities, and it could take considerable time and resources for us to replace the capacity of such vendors in the event of disruptions. In addition, if we are required to change the manufacturer of a critical component of our products, we will be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities, procedures and operations that comply with our quality and applicable regulatory requirements, which could further impede our ability to manufacture our products in a timely manner.. Further, for reasons of quality assurance or cost effectiveness, we purchase certain components and raw materials from sole suppliers. To be successful, we rely on our suppliers to provide us with products and components in substantial quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements, in accordance with agreed upon specifications, at acceptable cost and on a timely basis. In the event we experience delays, shortages, or stoppages of supply with any supplier, we would be forced to identify a suitable alternative supplier which could take significant time and result in significant expense. In addition, our anticipated growth could strain the ability of suppliers to deliver an increasingly large supply of products, materials and components. If we are required to transition to new third-party suppliers for certain components of our products, the use of components or materials furnished by these alternative suppliers could require us to alter our operations. Any such interruption or alteration could harm our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. Transitioning to a new supplier could be time-consuming and expensive, may result in interruptions in our operations and product delivery, could affect the performance specifications of our products or could require that we modify the design of those systems.. Performance issues, service interruptions or price increases by our shipping carriers could adversely affect our business and harm our reputation and ability to provide our services on a timely basis.. Expedited, reliable shipping is essential to our operations. We rely heavily on providers of transport services for reliable and secure point-to-point transport of our products to our customers and for tracking of these shipments. Should a carrier encounter delivery performance issues such as loss, damage or destruction of any products, it could be costly to replace such products in a timely manner and such occurrences may damage our reputation and lead to decreased demand for our products and increased cost and expense to our business. In addition, any significant increase in shipping rates could adversely affect our operating margins and results of operations. Similarly, strikes, severe weather, natural disasters or other service interruptions affecting delivery services we use would adversely affect our ability to process orders for our products on a timely basis.. Manufacturing risks may adversely affect our ability to manufacture products and could reduce our gross margins and negatively affect our operating results.. In 2017, we significantly expanded our self-manufacturing capabilities as we increased production at our approximately 180,000 square foot manufacturing facility in West Carrollton, Ohio. As part of our business strategy, we intend to continue to expand our ability to manufacture our current and new products with exceptional quality and in sufficient quantities to meet demand, while complying with regulatory requirements and managing manufacturing costs. We are subject to numerous risks relating to our manufacturing capabilities, including both those of our own manufacturing facilities and those of our third party suppliers, such as:. 22. Table of Contents. •  problems with quality control and assurance;. •  defects in product components that we source from third-party suppliers;. •  delays in obtaining components from third-party suppliers and component supply shortages;. •  failing to predict demand accurately, resulting in a failure to increase production of products to meet demand;. •  potential adverse effects on existing business relationships with current third-party suppliers as we expand our in-house manufacturing capabilities;. •  maintaining control over manufacturing expenses as production expands;. •  difficulties associated with compliance with local, state, federal and foreign regulatory requirements;. •  the inability to modify production lines to enable the efficient manufacture of new products or to quickly implement changes to current products in response to regulatory requirements; and. •  potential damage to or destruction of our, or our suppliers' manufacturing equipment or manufacturing facilities.. These risks may be exacerbated by our limited experience with self- manufacturing processes and procedures. In addition, as we seek to expand our manufacturing capabilities, we will have to continue to invest additional resources to hire and train personnel and enhance our production processes. If we fail to increase our manufacturing capacity efficiently, our profit margins will shrink, which will negatively affect our operating results.. The loss of key employee shareowners, or our inability to recruit, hire and retain skilled and experienced personnel, could negatively impact our ability to effectively manage and expand our business.. Our success depends on the skills, experience and performance of the members of our executive management team and other key employee shareowners. Their individual and collective efforts will be important as we continue to develop our products and as we expand our commercial activities. The loss or incapacity of existing members of our executive management team could negatively impact our operations, particularly if we experience difficulties in hiring qualified successors. We do not maintain key man life insurance with respect to any of our employee shareowners.. Our research and development programs and operations depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled engineers and technicians. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified managers, engineers and technicians in the future due to the competition for qualified personnel among medical device businesses, particularly in California. We also face competition from universities and public and private research institutions in recruiting and retaining highly qualified personnel. Recruiting and retention difficulties can limit our ability to support our commercial, manufacturing and research and development programs. All of our U.S. employee shareowners are employed on an at-will basis, which means that either we or the employee shareowner may terminate his or her employment at any time. The loss of key employee shareowners, the failure of any key employee shareowners to perform or our inability to attract and retain skilled employee shareowners, as needed, or an inability to effectively plan for and implement a succession plan for key employee shareowners could harm our business.. We face risks associated with our international business.. During the year ended December 31, 2017, $176.3 million or approximately 17% of our net revenue was attributable to our international customers. We are seeking to increase our international sales over the foreseeable future. Our international business operations are subject to a variety of risks, including:. 23. Table of Contents. •  difficulties in staffing and managing foreign and geographically dispersed operations;. •  having to comply with various U.S. and international laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, or the FCPA, and anti-money laundering laws;. •  having to comply with U.S. and foreign trade, import and export and customs regulations and laws, including, but not limited to, the Export Administration Regulations and trade sanctions against embargoed countries, which are administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control within the Department of the Treasury, as well as the laws and regulations administered by the Department of Commerce;. •  differing regulatory requirements for obtaining clearances or approvals to market our products;. •  changes in, or uncertainties relating to, foreign rules and regulations that may impact our ability to sell our products, perform services or repatriate profits to the United States;. •  tariffs and trade barriers, export regulations and other regulatory and contractual limitations on our ability to sell our products in certain foreign markets;. •  fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;. •  limitations on or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by foreign subsidiaries or joint ventures;. •  differing multiple payer reimbursement regimes, government payers or patient self-pay systems;. •  differing labor laws and standards;. •  complex data privacy requirements;. •  economic, political or social instability in foreign countries and regions;. •  an inability, or reduced ability, to protect our intellectual property, including any effect of compulsory licensing imposed by government action;. •  potential changes to U.S. trade policy, including new legislation that could restrict international trade, or protectionist or retaliatory measures taken by governments of other countries; and. •  availability of government subsidies or other incentives that benefit competitors in their local markets that are not available to us.. The FCPA and similar anti-bribery laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. The FCPA also imposes accounting standards and requirements on publicly traded U.S. corporations and their foreign affiliates, which are intended to prevent the diversion of corporate funds to the payment of bribes and other improper payments. Because of the predominance of government-sponsored healthcare systems around the world, many of our customer relationships outside of the United States are with governmental entities and are therefore subject to such anti-bribery laws. Our internal control policies and procedures may not always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employee shareowners, distributors or agents. In recent years, both the United States and foreign government regulators have increased regulation, enforcement, inspections and governmental investigations of the medical device industry, including increased United States government oversight and enforcement of the FCPA. Despite implementation of a comprehensive global healthcare compliance program, we may be subject to more regulation, enforcement, inspections and investigations by governmental authorities in the future.. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations in the United States or abroad could adversely affect us in a variety of ways that include, but are not limited to, significant criminal, civil and administrative penalties, including imprisonment of individuals, fines and penalties, denial of export privileges, seizure of shipments and restrictions on certain business activities, disgorgement and other remedial measures, disruptions of our operations, significant management distraction. Also, the failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could result in the disruption of our distribution and sales activities. Any reduction in international sales, or our failure to further develop our international markets, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 24. Table of Contents. Our results may be impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates.. As we increasingly compete in markets outside of the United States, we are and will be exposed to foreign currency exchange risk related to our foreign operations. A significant portion of our foreign subsidiaries' operating expenses are incurred in foreign currencies.  If the U.S. dollar weakens, our consolidated operating expenses would increase. An increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could require us to reduce our selling price or risk making our products less competitive in international markets or our costs could increase. Also, as our international sales continue to increase, we may enter into a greater number of transactions denominated in non-U.S. dollars, which could increase our exposure to foreign currency risks, including changes in currency exchange rates. If we are unable to address these risks and challenges effectively, our international operations may not be successful and our business could be harmed.. If we fail to properly manage our anticipated international growth, our business could suffer.. We have invested, and expect to increase our investment for the foreseeable future, in our expansion into international markets. To execute our anticipated growth in international markets we must:. •  manage the complexities associated with a larger, faster growing and more geographically diverse organization;. •  expand our clinical development resources to manage and execute increasingly global, larger and more complex clinical trials;. •  manage our directly-employed sales personnel as well as independent distributors and sales agents operating in international markets often pursuant to laws, regulations and customs that may be different than those that are customary for our United States operations;. •  expand our sales and marketing presence in international markets generally to avoid revenue concentration in a small number of markets that would subject us to the risk of business disruption as a result of economic or political problems in concentrated locations;. •  upgrade our internal business processes and capabilities (e.g., information technology platform and systems, product distribution and tracking) to create scalability and properly handle the transaction volumes that our growing geographically diverse organization demands; and. •  expend time and resources to receive product approvals and clearances to sell and promote products.. We expect that our operating expenses will continue to increase as we continue to expand into international markets. International markets may be slower than domestic markets in adopting our products and are expected, in many instances, to yield lower profit margins when compared to our domestic operations. We have only limited experience in expanding into international markets as well as marketing and operating our products and services in such markets.. Additionally, our international endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of Company management from domestic operations, insufficient revenue to offset the expenses associated with our international strategy, and issues not discovered in our due diligence of new markets or ventures. Because expansion into international markets is inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such strategies and initiatives will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Even if our international expansion is successful, our expenses may increase at a greater pace than our revenue and our operating results could be harmed.. Further, our anticipated growth internationally will place additional strain on our suppliers and manufacturers, resulting in increased need for us to carefully monitor quality assurance. Any failure by us to manage our international growth effectively could have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our development and commercialization goals.. Cyber security risks and the failure to maintain the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of our computer hardware, software, and Internet applications and related tools and functions could result in harm to our business and/or subject us to costs, fines or lawsuits.. We rely on sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure to operate and manage our business. We also maintain personally identifiable information (PII) about our employee shareowners, and given the nature of our business, we have access to PHI. Our business therefore depends on the continuous, effective, reliable, and secure operation of our computer hardware, software, networks, Internet servers, and related infrastructure. To the extent that our hardware or software malfunctions or access to our data by internal personnel, suppliers or customers through the Internet is interrupted or compromised, our business could suffer.. 25. Table of Contents. The integrity and protection of our customer, personnel, financial, research and development, and other confidential data is critical to our business and our customers and employees have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. The regulatory environment governing information, security and privacy laws is increasingly demanding and continues to evolve. Although our computer and communications hardware is protected through physical and software safeguards, it is still vulnerable to system malfunction, computer viruses, and cyber-attacks. These events could lead to the unauthorized access of our information technology systems and result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us, our employee shareowners, partners, customers, or our suppliers. The techniques used by criminal elements to attack computer systems are sophisticated, change frequently and may originate from less regulated and remote areas of the world. As a result, we may not be able to address these techniques proactively or implement adequate preventative measures. If our information technology systems are compromised, we could be subject to fines, damages, litigation and enforcement actions and we could lose trade secrets or other confidential information, the occurrence of which could harm our business.. We rely on the performance of our information technology systems, the failure of which could have an adverse effect on our business and performance.. Our business requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. These systems are vulnerable to interruption by fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, system malfunction, computer viruses, security breaches and other events, which are beyond our control. Systems interruptions could reduce our ability to manufacture and provide service for our products, and could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. The level of protection and disaster-recovery capability varies from site to site, and there can be no guarantee that any such plans, to the extent they are in place, will be totally effective. Loss of data could interrupt our operations, including our ability to bill our customers, provide customer support services, conduct research and development activities, process and prepare company financial information, manage various general and administrative aspects of our business and damage our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our business.. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption or loss due to natural or other disasters, power loss, strikes and other events beyond our control.. We conduct a significant portion of our activities, including administration and data processing, at facilities located in Southern California, an area that has experienced major earthquakes, fires and other natural disasters. In addition, our primary self-manufacturing facility is located in West Carrollton, Ohio, an area that has experienced tornados, winter storms and other natural disasters.  A major earthquake, fire, tornado or other disaster (such as a major flood, tsunami, storm or terrorist attack) affecting these or other NuVasive facilities, or those of our suppliers, could significantly disrupt our operations, and delay or prevent product shipment or installation during the time required to repair, rebuild or replace our facilities or those of our suppliers.  These delays could be lengthy and costly. If our manufacturing facilities or any of our customers' facilities are negatively impacted by a disaster, shipments of our products could be delayed. Additionally, customers may delay purchases of our products until operations return to normal. Even if we are able to quickly respond to a disaster, the ongoing effects of the disaster could create some uncertainty in the operations of our business. In addition, our facilities may be subject to a shortage of available electrical power and other energy supplies. Any shortages may increase our costs for power and energy supplies or could result in blackouts, which could disrupt the operations of our affected facilities and harm our business. In addition, concerns about terrorism, the effects of a terrorist attack, political turmoil or an outbreak of epidemic diseases could have a negative effect on our operations, those of our suppliers and customers and the ability to travel, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our insurance policies are expensive and protect us only from some business risks, which will leave us exposed to significant uninsured liabilities.. We do not carry insurance for all categories of risk that our business may encounter. Some of the policies we currently maintain include general liability, foreign liability, employee benefits liability, property, umbrella, workers' compensation, products liability and directors' and officers' insurance. We do not know, however, if we will be able to maintain existing insurance with adequate levels of coverage. Any significant uninsured liability may require us to pay substantial amounts, which would adversely affect our cash position and results of operations.. We bear the risk of warranty claims on our products.. We bear the risk of express and implied warranty claims on products we supply, including equipment and component parts manufactured by third parties. We may not be successful in claiming recovery under any warranty or indemnity provided to us by our suppliers or vendors in the event of a successful warranty claim against us by a customer or that any recovery from such vendor or supplier would be adequate. In addition, warranty claims brought by our customers related to third-party components may arise after our ability to bring corresponding warranty claims against such suppliers expire, which could result in additional costs to us. There is a risk that warranty claims made against us will exceed our warranty reserve and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed.. 26. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Litigation and Intellectual Property. Defending against litigation or other proceedings or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend significant time and money, and if we are unsuccessful, we may be obligated to pay damages and halt sales of our products.. Significant litigation regarding patent rights occurs in our industry and our commercial success depends in part on not infringing the patents or violating the other proprietary rights of others. We have received in the past, and expect to receive in the future, claims from our competitors alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights as part of business strategies designed to impede our successful commercialization of updated and new products and entry into new markets. A patent infringement suit brought against us or any of our strategic partners or licensees may force us or such strategic partners or licensees to stop or delay developing, manufacturing or selling potential products that are claimed to infringe a third-party's intellectual property, unless that party grants us or our strategic partners or licensees rights to use its intellectual property. In such cases, we may be required to obtain licenses to patents or proprietary rights of others in order to continue to commercialize our products. However, we may not be able to obtain any licenses required under any patents or proprietary rights of third parties on acceptable terms, or at all, and any licenses may require substantial royalties or other payments by us. Even if our strategic partners, licensees or we were able to obtain rights to the third-party's intellectual property, these rights may be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we may be unable to commercialize some of our potential products or may have to cease some of our business operations as a result of patent infringement claims, which could severely harm our business.. Moreover, we may become party to future adversarial proceedings regarding our patent portfolio or the patents of third parties. Such proceedings could include supplemental examination or contested post-grant proceedings such as inter partes review, reexamination, interference or derivation proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and challenges in U.S. District Court. Patents may be subjected to opposition, post-grant review or comparable proceedings lodged in various foreign, both national and regional, patent offices. The legal threshold for initiating litigation or contested proceedings may be low, so that even lawsuits or proceedings with a low probability of success might be initiated. Litigation and contested proceedings can also be expensive and time-consuming, and our adversaries in these proceedings may have the ability to dedicate substantially greater resources to prosecuting these legal actions than we can.. Any lawsuits resulting from such allegations could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidate our proprietary rights. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following:. •  stop making, selling or using products or technologies that allegedly infringe the asserted intellectual property;. •  lose the opportunity to license our technology to others or to collect royalty payments based upon successful protection and assertion of our intellectual property rights against others;. •  incur significant legal expenses;. •  pay substantial damages or royalties to the party whose intellectual property rights we may be found to be infringing;. •  pay the attorney's fees and costs of litigation to the party whose intellectual property rights we may be found to be infringing;. •  redesign those products that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property, which could be costly, disruptive and/or infeasible; or. •  attempt to obtain a license to the relevant intellectual property from third parties, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all.. Any litigation or claim against us, even those without merit, may cause us to incur substantial costs, and could place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of management from our core business and harm our reputation. In addition, we generally indemnify our customers and international distributors with respect to infringement by our products of the proprietary rights of third parties. If third parties assert infringement claims against our customers or distributors, we may be required to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation on behalf of our customers or distributors, regardless of the merits of these claims. If any of these claims succeed or settle, we may be forced to pay damages or settlement payments on behalf of our customers or distributors or may be required to obtain licenses for the products they use. If we cannot obtain all necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, our customers may be forced to stop using our products.. 27. Table of Contents. We are currently, and may in the future be, subject to claims and lawsuits that could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and result in harm to our business.. We are currently subject to a purported securities class action lawsuit, shareholder derivative litigation, and various commercial and product liability lawsuits, and we may be subject to additional claims and lawsuits in the future.  In addition, we, as well as certain of our officers and sales representatives, are subject to claims or lawsuits from time to time. Regardless of the outcome, these lawsuits may result in significant legal fees and expenses and could divert management's time and other resources. If the claims contained in these lawsuits are successfully asserted against us, we could be liable for damages and be required to alter or cease certain of our business practices or product lines. Any of these outcomes could cause our business, financial performance and cash position to be negatively impacted. Litigation may also harm our relationships with existing customers and subject us to negative publicity, each of which could harm our business and financial results.. Our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology through patents and other means is uncertain.. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our proprietary rights to the technologies used in our products and procedural solutions. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology, competitors may be able to use our technologies and erode or negate any competitive advantage we may have, which could harm our business and ability to achieve profitability.. Our pending U.S. and foreign patent applications may not issue as patents at all or not in a form that will be advantageous to us or may issue and be subsequently successfully challenged by others and invalidated. Our existing patents and any patents issued in the future may not have claims with a scope sufficient to protect our products, any additional features we develop for our products or any new products. Both the patent application process and the process of managing patent disputes can be time consuming and expensive. Other parties may have developed technologies that may be related or competitive to our technology, may have filed or may file patent applications and may have received or may receive patents that overlap or conflict with our patent applications, either by claiming the same methods or devices or by claiming subject matter that could dominate our patent position. Further, competitors may also be able to design around our patents or develop products that provide outcomes that are comparable to our products but fall outside of the scope of our patent protection.. We rely on our trademarks, trade names and brand names to distinguish our products from the products of our competitors, and have registered or applied to register many of these trademarks. We cannot assure you that our trademark applications will be approved. Third parties may also oppose our trademark applications, or otherwise challenge our use of the trademarks. In the event that our trademarks are successfully challenged, we could be forced to rebrand our products, which could result in loss of brand recognition, and could require us to devote resources to advertising and marketing new brands. Further, we cannot assure you that competitors will not infringe upon our trademarks, or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our trademarks.. If we seek to enforce our intellectual property rights through litigation or other proceedings, it could require us to spend significant time and money, with uncertain results.. In the event a competitor infringes upon our patent or other intellectual property rights, enforcing those rights may be costly, difficult and time consuming. We may not have sufficient resources to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against a challenge. Our ability to enforce our patent rights depends on our ability to detect infringement. It may be difficult to detect infringers who do not advertise the components that are used in their products. Moreover, it may be difficult or impossible to obtain evidence of infringement in a competitor's or potential competitor's product. The medical device industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. It is not unusual for parties to exchange letters surrounding allegations of intellectual property infringement and licensing arrangements. In addition, the patent positions of medical device companies, including our patent position, may involve complex legal and factual questions, and, therefore, the scope, validity and enforceability of any patent claims that we have or may obtain cannot be predicted with certainty.. 28. Table of Contents. Recent changes in U.S. patent laws may limit our ability to obtain, defend and/or enforce our patents.. Recent patent reform legislation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents. The Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the Leahy-Smith Act, includes a number of significant changes to U.S. patent law. These include provisions that affect the way patent applications are prosecuted and also affect patent litigation. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office recently developed new regulations and procedures to govern administration of the Leahy-Smith Act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the Leahy-Smith Act, and in particular, the first to file provisions, which only became effective on March 16, 2013. The first to file provisions limit the rights of an inventor to patent an invention if not the first to file an application for patenting that invention, even if such invention was the first invention. Accordingly, it is not clear what, if any, impact the Leahy-Smith Act will have on the operation of our business. The pool of prior art available to inhibit or limit our ability to obtain issued patents on the technology utilized in our products is expected to expand and the grace period for filing a patent application has been reduced in some ways. It is now possible for a situation to arise in which a competitor is able to obtain patent rights to technology which we invented first. Furthermore, the newly enacted patent laws have expanded the types of post grant challenges of issued patents and these proceedings may provide our competitors with additional opportunities to challenge the validity of our issued patents.. Additionally, the Leahy-Smith Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the enforcement and defense of our issued patents. For example, the Leahy-Smith Act provides that an administrative tribunal known as the Patent Trial and Appeals Board, or PTAB, provides a venue for challenging the validity of patents at a cost that is much lower than district court litigation and on timelines that are much faster. Although it is not clear what, if any, long-term impact the PTAB proceedings will have on the operation of our business, the initial results of patent challenge proceedings before the PTAB since its inception in 2013 have resulted in the invalidation of many U.S. patent claims. The availability of the PTAB as a lower-cost, faster and potentially more potent tribunal for challenging patents could increase the likelihood that our own patents will be challenged, thereby increasing the uncertainties and costs of maintaining and enforcing them.. Further, competitors may challenge our issued patents through post-grant challenge procedures (domestically) and/or opposition proceedings (internationally). The Leahy-Smith Act amended the post-grant challenge procedures in the U.S. to eliminate inter partes reexamination, maintain ex parte reexamination, and add inter partes review making it easier for third-parties to challenge issued patents. We are currently engaged in various such proceedings with respect to our issued patents and the Leahy-Smith Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the enforcement or defense of our issued patents.. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, our business and competitive position could be harmed.. We rely upon non-disclosure agreements and invention assignment agreements with our employee shareowners, consultants and third parties to protect our confidential and proprietary information and trade secrets. In addition to contractual measures, we try to protect the confidential nature of our proprietary information using physical and technological security measures. Such measures may not, for example, in the case of misappropriation of a trade secret by an employee or third party with authorized access, provide adequate protection for our proprietary information. Our security measures may not prevent an employee or consultant from misappropriating our trade secrets and providing them to a competitor, and recourse we take against such misconduct may not provide an adequate remedy to protect our interests fully. Unauthorized parties may also attempt to copy or reverse engineer certain aspects of our products that we consider proprietary. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally disclosed or misappropriated a trade secret can be difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, trade secrets may be independently developed by others in a manner that could prevent legal recourse by us. If any of our confidential or proprietary information, such as our trade secrets, were to be disclosed or misappropriated, or if any such information was independently developed by a competitor, our business and competitive position could be harmed.. We may not be able to enforce our intellectual property rights throughout the world.. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in certain foreign jurisdictions. This could make it difficult for us to stop infringement of our foreign patents, if obtained, or the misappropriation of our other intellectual property rights. For example, some foreign countries have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner must grant licenses to third parties. In addition, some countries limit the enforceability of patents against third parties, including government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, patents may provide limited or no benefit. Patent protection must ultimately be sought on a country-by-country basis, which is an expensive and time-consuming process with uncertain outcomes. Accordingly, we may choose not to seek patent protection in certain countries, and we will not have the benefit of patent protection in such countries.. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial costs and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. Accordingly, our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights in such countries may be inadequate. In addition, changes in the law and legal decisions by courts in the United States and foreign countries may affect our ability to obtain adequate protection for our technology and the enforcement of our intellectual property.. 29. Table of Contents. Third parties may assert ownership or commercial rights to inventions we develop.. We enter into agreements with collaborators that provide for the ownership of intellectual property arising from our collaborations and product development initiatives. These collaborators and other third parties may in the future make claims challenging the inventorship or ownership of our intellectual property.  In addition, we may face claims by third parties that our agreements with employee shareowners, contractors or consultants obligating them to assign intellectual property to us are ineffective or in conflict with prior or competing contractual obligations of assignment, which could result in ownership disputes regarding intellectual property we have developed or will develop and interfere with our ability to capture the commercial value of such intellectual property. Litigation may be necessary to resolve an ownership dispute, and if we are not successful, we may be precluded from using certain intellectual property or may lose our exclusive rights in that intellectual property. Either outcome could harm our business and competitive position.. In addition, in certain instances we have agreed to pay consultants royalties, milestones and other payments in connection with their product development efforts. There can be no assurance that these consultants will not claim to be entitled to a royalty, milestone or other payment, even if we do not believe that it is warranted. Any such claim against us, even those without merit, may cause us to incur substantial costs, and could place a strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of management from our core business and harm our reputation.. Third parties may assert that our employees or consultants have wrongfully used or disclosed confidential information or misappropriated trade secrets or are in breach of non-competition or non-solicitation agreements with our competitors.. We employ individuals who previously worked with other companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although we try to ensure that our employee shareowners and consultants do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that we or our personnel, consultants or independent contractors have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed intellectual property, including trade secrets or other proprietary information, of a former employer or other third party. In addition, we have been and may in the future be subject to claims that we caused an employee to breach the terms of his or her non-competition or non-solicitation agreement with a third party. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending any such claims or settling those claims, in addition to paying monetary damages or a settlement payment, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. Even if we are successful in defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and/or be a distraction to management and other employee shareowners.. If personal injury lawsuits are brought against us, our business may be harmed, and we may be required to pay damages that exceed our insurance coverage.. Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the testing, manufacture and sale of medical devices for surgical procedures, as well as potential malpractice claims that are inherent in the provision of IOM services. Surgical procedures using our products and services often involve significant risk of serious complications, including bleeding, nerve injury, paralysis and even death. We could become the subject of product liability lawsuits alleging that component failures, malfunctions, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information resulted in an unsafe condition or injury to patients. Furthermore, our biologics products may expose us to additional potential product liability claims, including due to the risk of transmitting disease to human recipients. Additionally, our IOM services business could become the subject of medical malpractice lawsuits alleging negligence on the part of our neurophysiologists and/or oversight physicians.. We have had, and continue to have, a small number of personal injury claims relating to our products and clinical services, none of which either individually, or in the aggregate, have resulted, or do we believe will result, in a material negative impact on our business. In the future, we may be subject to additional personal injury claims, some of which may have a negative impact on our business. Regardless of the merit or eventual outcome, personal injury claims may result in:. •  decreased demand for our products;. •  injury to our reputation;. •  significant litigation costs;. •  substantial monetary awards to or costly settlements with patients;. •  product recalls;. •  material defense costs;. •  loss of revenue;. •  increased insurance costs;. •  the inability to commercialize new products or product candidates; and. •  diversion of management attention from pursuing our business strategy.. 30. Table of Contents. Our existing insurance coverage for personal injury claims may be inadequate to protect us from any liabilities we might incur. If a personal injury claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of our insurance coverage, our business could suffer. In addition, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts or scope to protect us against losses. Any claims against us, regardless of their merit, could severely harm our financial condition, strain our management and other resources and adversely affect or eliminate the prospects for commercialization of our IOM business or sales of a product or product candidate that is the subject of any such claim.. Risks Related to Regulatory and Compliance. We are subject to rigorous FDA and other governmental regulations regarding the development, manufacture, and sale of our products and we may incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations and develop products that satisfy these regulations.. The medical devices we manufacture and market are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities, including regulations that cover, among other things, the composition, labeling, testing, clinical study, manufacturing, packaging, marketing and distribution of our products.. We are required to register with the FDA as a device manufacturer and tissue bank. As a result, we are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA for compliance with the FDA's Quality System Regulation (QSR) and Good Tissue Practices requirements, which require manufacturers of medical devices and tissue banks to adhere to certain regulations, including testing, quality control and documentation procedures. Our compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review and is rigorously monitored through periodic inspections by the FDA. In the European Community, we are required to maintain certain ISO certifications in order to sell our products, and are subject to periodic inspections by Notified Bodies to obtain and maintain these certifications. If we or our suppliers fail to adhere to QSR, ISO or other applicable regulations and standards, it could negatively impact product production and regulatory clearances and could result in fines.  Further our products could be subject to recall by the FDA or other regulatory bodies, or voluntarily by us, in the event of a material deficiency or defect in design, manufacture, labeling of a product or in the event that a product poses an unacceptable risk to health. These and other consequences could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations.. Most medical devices must receive FDA clearance or approval before they can be commercially marketed. In addition, the FDA may require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the effects of approved products that have been commercialized, and can prevent or limit further marketing of a product based upon the results of such post-marketing programs. In addition, the Federal Medical Device Reporting Regulations require us to provide information to the FDA whenever there is evidence that reasonably suggests that a device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or, if a malfunction were to occur, that could cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Furthermore, most major markets for medical devices outside the United States require clearance, approval or compliance with certain standards before a product can be commercially marketed. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the FDA and certain foreign governmental authorities, can be costly and time-consuming, and approvals may not be granted for future products or product improvements on a timely basis, if at all. Delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, approvals for future products or product improvements could result in delayed realization of product revenue or in substantial additional costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations or prospects. At any time after approval of a product, the FDA may conduct periodic inspections to determine compliance with both QSR requirements and/or current Medical Device Reporting regulations.  If we fail to comply with our reporting obligations, the FDA could take action, including warning letters, untitled letters, administrative actions, criminal prosecution, imposition of civil monetary penalties, revocation of our device clearance, seizure of our products or delay in clearance of future products.  Product clearances or approvals by the FDA can be withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory standards or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial clearance or approval.. Also, the procurement and transplantation of allograft bone tissue is subject to the criminal statute National Organ Transplant Act and state rules and regulations which govern, among other things, payments we make to vendors in consideration for the services they provide in connection with the recovery and screening of donors. Failure to comply with such laws could result in enforcement action against us and a disruption to these product lines (and the revenue associated therewith).. Failure or alleged failure to comply with FDA and other governmental regulations can result in investigations and other regulatory proceedings, which are expensive and could divert management attention.. If the FDA or other governmental authorities in the United States or abroad believes we are not conducting our business in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, such governmental authority can initiate investigations or other regulatory proceedings.  Responding to such investigations and proceedings may cause us to incur substantial costs, and could place a significant strain on our financial resources and divert the attention of management from our core business.  We could be subject to proceedings to detain or seize our products, product recalls, or operating restrictions, Moreover, governmental authorities can ban or request the recall, repair, replacement or refund of the cost of any device or product we manufacture or distribute. Any of the foregoing actions could result in decreased sales as a result of negative publicity and product liability claims, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. 31. Table of Contents. We are subject to federal, state and foreign fraud and abuse laws and health information privacy and security laws, which, if violated, could subject us to substantial penalties.. There are numerous U.S. federal and state, as well as foreign, laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback, false claims and physician transparency laws. Our relationships with physicians, providers and hospitals are subject to scrutiny under these laws. We may also be subject to patient privacy regulation by both the federal government and the states and foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct our business.. Healthcare fraud and abuse laws are broad in scope and are subject to evolving interpretation, which could require us to incur substantial costs to monitor compliance or to alter our practices if they are found not to be in compliance. Violations of these laws may be punishable by criminal or civil sanctions, including substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs. Despite implementation of a comprehensive global healthcare compliance program, we cannot provide assurance that any of the healthcare fraud and abuse laws will not change or be interpreted in the future in a manner which restricts or adversely affects our business activities or relationships with healthcare professionals, nor can we make any assurances that authorities will not challenge or investigate our current or future activities under these laws.. In July 2015, we entered into a settlement agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice, or DOJ, pursuant to which we paid $13.5 million to resolve an investigation into possible false or otherwise improper claims submitted to Medicare and Medicaid. We admitted no wrongdoing as part of the settlement. In August 2015, we received a civil investigative demand, or CID, issued by the DOJ pursuant to the federal False Claims Act. The CID requires the delivery of a wide range of documents and information related to an investigation by the DOJ concerning allegations that we assisted a physician group customer in submitting improper claims for reimbursement and made improper payments to the physician group in violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute. We are cooperating with the DOJ. Additionally, in June 2017, we received a subpoena from the OIG in connection with an investigation into possible false or otherwise improper claims submitted to Medicare and Medicaid. We are working with the OIG to understand the scope of the subpoena and its request for documents, and we intend to fully cooperate with the OIG's request.. No assurance can be given as to the timing or outcome of these investigations. Responding to government requests and investigations requires considerable resources, including the time and attention of management. If we were to become the subject of an enforcement action, including any action resulting from the investigation by the DOJ or the OIG, it could result in negative publicity, penalties, fines, the exclusion of our products from reimbursement under federally-funded programs and/or prohibitions on our ability to sell our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. We may fail to obtain or maintain foreign regulatory approvals to market our products in other countries.. We currently market our products internationally and intend to expand our international marketing. International jurisdictions require separate regulatory approvals and compliance with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedures vary among countries and may involve requirements for additional testing. Clearance or approval by the FDA does not ensure approval or certification by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions, and approval or certification by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval or certification by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or by the FDA. The foreign regulatory approval or certification process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA clearance or approval. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals or certifications and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market. If we fail to receive necessary approvals or certifications to commercialize our products in foreign jurisdictions on a timely basis, or at all, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. If we fail to obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining, FDA clearances or approvals for our future products or product enhancements, our ability to commercially distribute and market our products could suffer.. The process of obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the FDA, can be costly and time consuming, and there can be no assurance that such clearances or approvals will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. In particular, the FDA permits commercial distribution of a new, non-exempt, non-Class I medical device only after the device has received clearance under Section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or receives approval under the premarket approval application (PMA) process. If clinical trials of our current or future product candidates do not produce results necessary to support regulatory approval, we will be unable to commercialize these products, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. 32. Table of Contents. The FDA will clear marketing of a medical device through the 510(k) process if it is demonstrated that the new product is substantially equivalent to other 510(k)-cleared products. The PMA process is more costly, lengthy and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process. Additionally, any modification to a 510(k)-cleared device that could significantly affect its safety or efficacy, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, requires a new 510(k) clearance or, possibly, a PMA. The FDA may not agree with any of our decisions regarding whether new clearances or approvals are necessary. Our failure to comply with such regulations could lead to the imposition of injunctions, suspensions or loss of regulatory approvals, product recalls, termination of distribution, or product seizures. In the most egregious cases, criminal sanctions or closure of our manufacturing facilities are possible.. The misuse or off-label use of our products may harm our reputation in the marketplace, result in injuries that lead to product liability suits or result in costly investigations, fines or sanctions by regulatory bodies if we are deemed to have engaged in the promotion of these uses, any of which could be costly to our business.. Pursuant to FDA regulations, we can only market our products for cleared or approved uses. Although physicians are permitted to use medical devices for indications other than those cleared or approved by the FDA based on their medical judgment, we are prohibited from promoting products for such off-label uses.  We train our marketing personnel and independent sales representatives and distributors to not promote our products for uses outside of the FDA-cleared indications. Although we believe our marketing, promotional materials and training programs for physicians do not constitute promotion of unapproved uses of our products, if the FDA or any foreign regulatory body determines that our marketing, promotional materials or training programs constitute promotion of an off-label use, we could be subject to significant fines in addition to regulatory enforcement actions.  It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action under other regulatory authority, such as false claims laws, if they consider our business activities to constitute promotion of an off-label use, which could result in significant penalties, including, but not limited to, criminal, civil and administrative penalties, damages, fines, disgorgement, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs and the curtailment of our operations.. In addition, there may be increased risk of injury to patients if physicians attempt to use our products off-label. Furthermore, the use of our products for indications other than those cleared by the FDA or approved by any foreign regulatory body may not effectively treat such conditions, which could harm our reputation in the marketplace among physicians and patients.. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with the FDA's quality system regulations or equivalent regulations and standards internationally, the manufacture and processing of our products could be delayed and we may be subject to an enforcement action by the FDA or other government agencies.. We and our suppliers are required to comply with the QSR and other applicable standards and requirements, which cover the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production or processing, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of our products. The FDA and other regulatory bodies enforce compliance with regulatory requirements and standards through periodic inspections. If we or one of our suppliers fail an inspection or if any corrective action plan is not sufficient, the release of our products could be delayed. We have undergone inspections by the FDA and other regulatory bodies regarding our allograft business and FDA inspections regarding our medical device activities. In connection with these inspections as well as prior inspections, regulatory agencies have requested minor corrective actions, which we have implemented. There can be no assurance that the FDA will not subject us to further enforcement action and the FDA and other regulatory agencies may impose additional inspections at any time.. Additionally, we are the legal manufacturer of record for the products that are distributed and labeled by us, regardless of whether the products are manufactured by us or our suppliers. Thus, a failure by us or our suppliers to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action against us by the FDA, which may include any of the following sanctions:. •  fines, injunctions, and civil penalties;. •  recall or seizure of our products;. •  operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production;. •  refusing our request for 510(k) clearance or premarket approval of new products;. •  withdrawing 510(k) clearance or premarket approvals that are already granted; and. •  criminal prosecution.. 33. Table of Contents. We or our suppliers may be the subject of claims for non-compliance with FDA regulations in connection with the processing or distribution of allograft products.. It is possible that allegations may be made against us or against donor recovery groups or tissue banks, including those with which we have a contractual relationship, claiming that the acquisition or processing of tissue for allograft products does not comply with applicable FDA regulations or other relevant statutes and regulations. Allegations like these could cause regulators or other authorities to take investigative or other action against us, or could cause negative publicity for us or our industry in general. These actions or any negative publicity could cause us to incur substantial costs, divert the attention of management from our business, harm our reputation and cause the market price of our shares to decline.. Compliance with SEC regulations relating to \"conflict minerals\" may increase our costs and adversely affect our business.. We are subject to SEC regulations that require us to determine whether our products contain certain specified minerals, referred to under the regulations as \"conflict minerals\", and, if so, to perform an extensive inquiry into our supply chain, in an effort to determine whether or not such conflict minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo (\"DRC\"), or an adjoining country.  Compliance with these regulations has increased our costs, and we expect our costs may increase in the future. We have determined that certain of our products contain such specified minerals. As of the date of our conflict minerals report for the 2016 calendar year, we were unable to determine whether or not such minerals originate from the DRC or an adjoining country. We are continuing to conduct inquiries into our supply chain in connection with the preparation of our conflict minerals report for 2017, which must be audited by an independent auditor pursuant to existing government auditing standards. Compliance with these requirements has been time-consuming for management and our supply chain personnel (as well as time-consuming for our suppliers), and we expect that compliance will continue to require the expenditure of significant amounts of time and money by us and them.  In addition, to the extent any of our disclosures are perceived by the market to be \"negative,\" it may cause customers to refuse to purchase our products.  Further, if we determine to make any changes to products, processes, or sources of supply, it may result in additional costs, which may adversely affect our business.. Legislative or regulatory reforms may make it more difficult and costly for us to obtain regulatory clearances or approvals for our products or to produce, market or distribute our products after clearance or approval is obtained.. From time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced in Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the regulation of medical devices or the reimbursement thereof. In addition, the FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the FDA in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. Any new statutes, regulations or revisions or reinterpretations of existing regulations may impose additional costs or lengthen review times of any future products or make it more difficult to manufacture, market or distribute our products or future products. We cannot determine what effect changes in regulations, statutes, legal interpretation or policies, when and if promulgated, enacted or adopted may have on our business in the future. Such changes could, among other things, require:. •  additional testing prior to obtaining clearance or approval;. •  changes to manufacturing methods;. •  recall, replacement or discontinuance of our products or future products; or. •  additional record keeping.. Any of these changes could require substantial time and cost and could harm our business and our financial results.. Our relationships with physicians could be subject to additional scrutiny from regulatory enforcement authorities and could subject us to possible administrative, civil or criminal sanctions.. Federal and state laws and regulations impose restrictions on our relationships with physicians. We have entered into consulting agreements, license agreements and other agreements with physicians in which we provided equity awards or cash or both as compensation. Some of the physicians with which we have such consulting and other agreements are affiliated with some of our customers. Finally, we have other arrangements with physicians, including for research and development grants and for other purposes as well.. We could be adversely affected if regulatory agencies were to interpret our financial relationships with these physicians, who may be in a position to influence the ordering of and use of our products for which governmental reimbursement may be available, as being in violation of applicable laws. If our relationships with physicians are found to be in violation of the laws and regulations that apply to us, we may be required to restructure the arrangements and could be subject to administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could negatively impact our ability to operate our business and our results of operations.. 34. Table of Contents. Our business involves the use of hazardous materials and we and our third-party manufacturers must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which may be expensive and restrict how we do business.. Our third-party manufacturers' activities and our own activities involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials. We and our manufacturers are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials. We currently carry no insurance specifically covering environmental claims relating to the use of hazardous materials, but we do reserve funds to address these claims at both the federal and state levels. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials and waste products comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from the use, storage, handling or disposal of hazardous materials. In the event of an accident, state or federal or other applicable authorities may curtail our use of these materials and interrupt our business operations. In addition, if an accident or environmental discharge occurs, or if we discover contamination caused by prior operations, including by prior owners and operators of properties we acquire, we could be liable for cleanup obligations, damages and fines. If such unexpected costs are substantial, this could significantly harm our financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Financial Results and Need for Financing. We may be unable to grow our revenue or earnings as anticipated, which may have a material adverse effect on our future operating results.. We have experienced rapid growth since our inception, and have increased our revenue from $38.4 million in 2004, the year of our initial public offering, to $1.03 billion in 2017. Our ability to achieve future growth will depend upon, among other things, the success of our growth strategies, which we cannot assure will be successful. In addition, we may have more difficulty maintaining our prior rate of growth of revenue or recent levels of profitability and cash flow. Our future success will depend upon various factors, including the strength of our brand image, the market success of our current and future products, competitive conditions and our ability to manage increased revenue, if any, or implement our growth strategy. In addition, we anticipate significantly expanding our infrastructure and adding personnel in connection with our anticipated growth, which we expect will cause our selling, general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue. Because these expenses are generally fixed, particularly in the short-to-medium term, our operating and financial results may be adversely impacted if we do not achieve our anticipated growth.. We have a significant amount of outstanding indebtedness, and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not efficiently manage our liabilities.. As of December 31, 2017, we had outstanding $650.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 2.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2021 (the \"2021 Notes\").  This significant amount of debt has important risks to us and our investors, including:. •  requiring a portion of our cash flow from operations to make interest payments on this debt;. •  increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. •  reducing the cash flow available to fund capital expenditures and other corporate purposes and to grow our business;. •  limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; and. •  limiting our ability to borrow additional funds as needed or take advantage of business opportunities as they arise.. In addition, to the extent we draw on our $500.0 million revolving senior credit facility (the \"2017 Facility\") or otherwise incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above could increase. Further, if we increase our indebtedness, our actual cash requirements in the future may be greater than expected. Our cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to repay all of the outstanding debt as it becomes due, and we may not be able to borrow money, sell assets or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms, or at all, to refinance our debt. Further, there are a large number of shares of common stock reserved for issuance upon the potential conversion of our 2021 Notes and the warrants that we issued as part of the related bond hedge transactions related to the 2021 Notes. The issuance of these shares may depress the market price of our common stock.. 35. Table of Contents. If we fail to comply with the covenants and other obligations under our credit facility, the lenders may be able to accelerate amounts owed under the facilities and may foreclose upon the assets securing our obligations.. In April 2017, we entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the \"2017 Credit Agreement\") with respect to the 2017 Facility, which replaced the previous Credit Agreement we had entered into in February 2016.  The 2017 Credit Agreement provides for secured revolving loans, multicurrency loan options and letters of credit in an aggregate amount of up to $500.0 million. The 2017 Credit Agreement also contains an expansion feature, which allows us to increase the aggregate principal amount of the 2017 Facility provided we remain in compliance with the underlying financial covenants, including but not limited to, compliance with the consolidated interest coverage ratio and certain consolidated leverage ratios. All of our assets and the assets of our material subsidiaries are pledged as collateral under the 2017 Facility (subject to customary exceptions) and each of our material domestic subsidiaries guarantee the 2017 Facility. The covenants set forth in the 2017 Credit Agreement restrict, among other things, our ability to: create liens on assets, incur additional indebtedness, make investments, make acquisitions and other fundamental changes, sell and dispose of property or assets, pay dividends and other distributions, change the business conducted, engage in certain transactions with affiliates, enter into burdensome agreements, limit certain use of proceeds, amend organizational documents, change accounting policies or reporting practices, modify or terminate documents related to certain indebtedness, enter into sale and leaseback transactions, fund any person or business that is the subject of sanctions, and use proceeds for any breach of anti-corruption laws. If we fail to comply with the covenants and our other obligations under the 2017 Facility, the lenders would be able to accelerate the required repayment of amounts due under the 2017 Credit Agreement and, if they are not repaid, could foreclose upon our assets securing our obligations under the 2017 Facility.. We may need additional financing in the future to meet our capital needs or to make opportunistic acquisitions and such financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all, and may be dilutive to existing stockholders.. In furtherance of our growth strategy and global expansion efforts, we intend to continue to invest in our business, including through acquisitions and strategic transactions. These investments will be expensive, and we may need to seek additional financing in the future to meet our capital needs.  As of December 31, 2017, we had $72.8 million in cash and cash equivalents and the ability to draw $500.0 million on our 2017 Facility. In January 2018, we drew $50.0 million from the 2017 Facility to be used for working capital, general corporate purposes, and strategic investments and acquisitions, including the acquisition of SafePassage, a privately-held provider of IOM services. We may seek to raise capital from public and private debt and equity offerings, borrowings under our existing or future credit facilities or other sources. We may be unable to obtain any desired additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund our expansion, successfully develop or enhance products or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could negatively affect our business. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, our stockholders will experience dilution of their ownership interest. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to limitations on our operations due to restrictive covenants. Additionally, our ability to make scheduled payments or refinance our obligations will depend on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors beyond our control.. We could be subject to changes in tax rates, the adoption, evolution or change of new and/or amended U.S. or international tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities.. We are subject to taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions, including the Netherlands, where a number of our subsidiaries are located. Significant judgment is required to determine and estimate our worldwide tax liabilities. Due to economic and political conditions, tax rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. Our effective income tax rates have been, and could in the future be adversely affected by changes in tax laws or interpretations of those tax laws, by stock-based compensation and other non-deductible expenses, by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities.. As part of our globalization initiative, we have centralized international operations in the Netherlands and have entered into intercompany transfer pricing arrangements, including the licensing of intangibles. We continue to streamline our international operations to better align with and support our international business activities and markets through changes in how we develop, license and use our intangible property and how we structure our international procurement and customer service functions. We have experienced a negative impact to our effective tax rate over the last few years as we've invested in our expansion and expect continued but declining pressure on the tax rate over the next several years until we achieve our net profitability goals outside the U.S. and see the long-term benefits of expansion on our effective tax rate. There can be no assurance that the taxing authorities of the jurisdictions in which we operate or will operate or to which we are otherwise deemed to have sufficient tax presence will not challenge the tax benefits that we ultimately expect to realize as a result of our international structure. In addition, current and future changes to U.S. and non-U.S. tax laws, including recently enacted U.S. tax reform of international business, could negatively impact the anticipated tax benefits of our international structure. Any long term benefits to our tax rate will also depend on our ability to achieve our anticipated international growth projections and to operate our business in a manner consistent with our international structure and intercompany transfer pricing arrangements. If we do not operate our business consistent with the structure and applicable tax provisions, we may fail to achieve the financial efficiencies that we anticipate as a result of the structure and our future operating results and financial condition may be negatively impacted.. 36. Table of Contents. Finally, we may be subject in the future to examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other taxing authorities which may result in the assessment of additional income taxes. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. If our effective tax rates were to increase, particularly in the U.S. or the Netherlands or if the ultimate determination of our taxes owed is for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued, our financial condition, cash flows or results of operations could be adversely affected.. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common Stock. We expect that the price of our common stock will fluctuate substantially, potentially adversely affecting the ability of investors to sell their shares.. The market price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations, which may negatively affect the ability of investors to sell our shares at consistent prices. Fluctuation in the stock price may occur due to many factors, including, without limitation:. •  general market conditions and other factors related to the economy or otherwise, including factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors;. •  people's expectations, favorable or unfavorable, as to the likely unit growth of the spine sector;. •  negative stock market reactions to the results of litigation;. •  negative publicity regarding spine surgeon's practices or outcomes, whether warranted or not, that cast the sector in a negative light;. •  the introduction of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors;. •  changes in the availability of third-party reimbursement in the United States or other countries;. •  disputes or other developments with respect to intellectual property rights or other potential legal actions;. •  our ability to develop, obtain regulatory clearance or approval for, and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis;. •  quarterly variations in our or our competitor's results of operations;. •  sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers and directors;. •  announcements of technological or medical innovations for the treatment of spine pathology;. •  changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals, clearances or applications;. •  the acquisition or divestiture of businesses, products, assets or technology by us or by our competitors;. •  litigation (including intellectual property litigation) and any associated negative verdicts or ruling;. •  announcements of actions by the FDA or other regulatory agencies; and. •  changes in earnings or operating margin estimates or recommendations by us or by securities analysts.. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could affect our stock price adversely and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our board of directors that our stockholders might consider favorable. Some of these provisions:. •  authorize the issuance of preferred stock which can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of the common stock;. •  provide for a classified board of directors, with each director serving a staggered three-year term;. •  provide that our stockholders may remove our directors only for cause;. •  prohibit our stockholders from filling board vacancies, calling special stockholder meetings, or taking action by written consent;. •  prohibit our stockholders from making certain changes to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws except with 66 2/3% stockholder approval; and. •  require advance written notice of stockholder proposals and director nominations.. 37. Table of Contents. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by our then-current board of directors, including delay or impede a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving our company. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. We do not intend to pay cash dividends.. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of any future debt or credit facility may preclude us from paying any dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be our stockholders' source of potential gain for the foreseeable future."
