[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. We face a number of risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict and many of which are outside of our control. In this section, we describe what we believe are the material risks to our business and future development. This is not an exhaustive list of risks affecting our business. There may be other risks that are not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial but turn out to be material in the future.  If any of these risks were to materialize, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operation, reputation and growth prospects, and cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any of our forward-looking statements.  In that case, the value of our common stock could decline substantially.. Investors should carefully consider the risk factors described below together with the other cautionary statements included in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and elsewhere in this Annual Report.. Risks Related to our Business. The home hemodialysis market may not expand sufficiently to support our growth prospects.. While we believe our largest growth opportunity with our existing products is within the home hemodialysis market, home hemodialysis therapies have not been extensively adopted.  With our current technology, we believe that approximately 10-15% of end-stage renal disease patients in the U.S. would be appropriate candidates for home hemodialysis. However, only 2% of U.S. chronic dialysis patients receive hemodialysis treatments at home.. Our growth requires that we continue to shift patients' and the medical community's understanding and view of home hemodialysis and will require further increases in the number of patients who adopt home hemodialysis from current levels, physicians who are willing to prescribe home hemodialysis, and dialysis centers that are willing to support home hemodialysis growth.  Most dialysis centers presently do not have the infrastructure to support a significant home hemodialysis patient population, including the availability of home hemodialysis training nurses, and may not be motivated to invest in home hemodialysis programs due, in part, to certain Medicare reimbursement policies.  We will need to continue to devote significant resources to expanding the home hemodialysis market, but these efforts ultimately may not be successful.. Medicare reimbursement policies may limit patient access to our home hemodialysis products.. Medicare regulations that, directly or indirectly, have a disproportionate impact on home hemodialysis therapy may limit patient access to our home hemodialysis products.  In 2011, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services implemented a prospective payment system for dialysis treatment.  Under this prospective payment system, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services generally makes a single bundled payment to the dialysis center for each dialysis treatment that covers all renal dialysis services, inclusive of home dialysis and most drugs frequently administered to dialysis patients. This payment system replaced the former system which paid centers a composite rate for a defined set of items and services, while paying separately for drugs, laboratory tests, and other services that were not included in the composite rate. A stated goal of the new prospective payment system was to encourage home dialysis. To date, this reimbursement structure has not had a positive impact on the adoption of home or more frequent hemodialysis or the price of our products. However, the prospective payment system has had a significant positive impact on the adoption of peritoneal dialysis as evidenced by the significantly increased rates of training for peritoneal dialysis. We believe this increased focus on peritoneal dialysis growth and peritoneal dialysis training has been to the detriment of home hemodialysis training rates, as home training resources, including home training nurses in particular, have been more devoted to peritoneal dialysis training, leaving less time for home hemodialysis training.. Medicare provides broad and well-established reimbursement in the U.S. for treating end-stage renal disease patients with hemodialysis three times a week.  Most patients using the System One in the home, however, have been prescribed to dialyze more than three times per week to attain the clinical benefits of more frequent dialysis.  Given the increased provider costs associated with providing more frequent dialysis, access to our home hemodialysis products will be impacted by whether. 26. dialysis centers receive or pursue adequate reimbursement for the additional dialysis treatments.  Reimbursement for more frequent hemodialysis requires medical justification provided by the dialysis center based on information from the patient's physician, which increases the center's administrative burden.  In addition, there is no national standard for what constitutes medical justification, thus reimbursement for more frequent hemodialysis varies due to differing Medicare contractor policies and center billing practices.  Dialysis centers may be unwilling to support more frequent home hemodialysis in the absence of predictable Medicare reimbursement for additional treatments per week based on submitted claims for medical justification.. Currently, only four of the twelve Medicare contractor jurisdictions have issued formal local coverage determinations that describe medical justification for more frequent hemodialysis.  In the remaining jurisdictions, medical justification is determined on a case-by-case basis.  Recently, however, seven Medicare contractors have issued proposed local coverage determinations setting forth a limited set of medical conditions that would constitute medical justification for more frequent hemodialysis in their respective jurisdictions.  The proposed local coverage determinations are nearly identical across Medicare contractors and would cover approximately 90% of existing dialysis units. We believe the proposed local coverage determinations are inconsistent with long-standing Medicare policy, including that reiterated in recent Medicare payment rules, current clinical literature and locally accepted standards of care.  In partnership with other provider, patient, and professional organizations, we have been actively engaged in the comment process for the proposed local coverage determinations.  We timely submitted our comment letters, which were due on various dates during November and December 2017. If the proposed local coverage determinations were adopted in their current form, they would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation by significantly restricting patient access to home and more frequent hemodialysis.. Measures to reduce healthcare costs may hurt our business.. Our customers are healthcare providers who depend upon reimbursement by government and commercial insurance payors for dialysis treatments. With a vast majority of U.S. patients with end-stage renal disease covered by Medicare, the Medicare reimbursement rate is an important factor in a customer's decision to use the System One or our other products and limits the prices we may charge for our products. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services issued the 2018 final rule for the end-stage renal disease prospective payment system, which increased the base reimbursement rate by less than 1% over 2017 rates.  Commercial insurance payors may also exert downward pressure on payment rates for dialysis services.  A reduction in reimbursement rates for dialysis treatments may adversely affect our customers' businesses and cause them to enact cost reduction measures that may include reducing the scope of their home hemodialysis programs.. In recent years, there have been numerous initiatives on the federal and state levels for comprehensive reforms affecting the availability of and reimbursement for healthcare services. For example, in 2010, comprehensive U.S. health care reform legislation was passed imposing a 2.3% excise tax on domestic sales of certain medical devices, including our products. This tax was suspended for 2016 and 2017, and, as part of the Tax Reform, the tax was again suspended for two years, beginning in January 2018. The tax will continue to have a negative impact when it is imposed again starting in 2020 unless permanently suspended or repealed. Rising healthcare costs have also led many European and other foreign countries to adopt healthcare reform proposals and medical cost containment measures, including government-imposed industry-wide price reductions, mandatory pricing systems, reference pricing systems, and payors limiting access to treatments based on cost-benefit analysis.  Any of these measures, including the uncertainty in the medical community regarding their nature and effect, could have an adverse effect on our customers' purchasing decisions regarding our products and treatments, as well as limit the prices we may charge for our products.. We sell a limited number of products.. We derive most of our revenues from sales of the System One and the related products used with the System One, with the remainder of our revenues largely coming from sales of a few key disposable products, including blood tubing sets and needles.  Although we are working on initiatives that should diversify our future revenues, our present business continues to be exposed to risks that are concentrated in a small number of products.  As a result, any event that adversely affects these products or the markets for these products could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation.. Our relationships with DaVita and Fresenius are important to our business.. DaVita and Fresenius collectively provide treatment to over two-thirds of U.S. dialysis patients and are our two largest customers.  Sales to them have driven a large portion of our historical revenue growth.  Any adverse change in either customer's ordering or clinical practices, including in response to the establishment of our NxStage Kidney Care dialysis centers or the pendency of our Merger with Fresenius, would have an adverse impact on our revenues.  In addition, these large dialysis providers have significant purchasing power, and we may be required to grant them favorable pricing and other terms for our products that reduce our gross margins and have an adverse effect on our operating results.. Our home market agreements with DaVita and Fresenius are intended to support the continued expansion of patient access to home hemodialysis with the System One, but like all our agreements with home customers, these agreements are not requirements contracts and they contain no minimum purchase volumes.  Our home market agreement with DaVita extends. 27. through December 31, 2018, with monthly renewals thereafter unless terminated by either party with 30 days' prior notice. Our home market agreement with Fresenius continues to renew on a monthly basis unless we and Fresenius choose to modify the terms with an amendment or new agreement.. We may be unable to achieve or sustain profitable operations.. Since inception, we have incurred negative operating margins and losses every quarter. Currently, we have a significant accumulated deficit. We continue to invest in our operations, in particular with respect to research and development, to drive future growth. Accordingly, we cannot ensure the timing, extent or sustainability of our future profitability.. Our NxStage Kidney Care dialysis centers introduce significant new risks to our business.. As health care providers and participants in federal health care programs, our NxStage Kidney Care dialysis centers must comply with complex regulations that are, in some instances, relatively new to our business, including:. • Medicare and Medicaid payment rules, including coverage rules that limit the clinical circumstances under which payment will be made for more frequent dialysis treatments;. • anti-kickback and related laws prohibiting payments and other remuneration intended to influence the referral of health care business or selection of a provider;. • prohibitions on submitting false claims for government or commercial insurance reimbursement;. • laws regulating the use and disclosure of patient health information; and. • laws regulating the storage and administration of pharmaceuticals and medical devices.. If we violate such laws and regulations, we may face criminal and civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs.  If we are found to have submitted improper claims for reimbursement to the government or commercial insurers, we may also have to repay amounts received from government or commercial payors and pay additional damages and interest.. Physician joint ventures for the ownership and operation of dialysis centers is a common business structure within the dialysis services industry and are designed to improve the quality of care while managing healthcare costs by sharing clinical expertise, management experience and industry knowledge in an efficient manner. A few of our NxStage Kidney Care dialysis centers are structured as joint ventures in which physicians hold an interest.  These physician owners may also provide medical director services and refer patients to our dialysis centers.  There historically has been significant governmental scrutiny of joint ventures and other financial arrangements with physicians and physician groups.  Although we seek to structure and operate our joint ventures in compliance with all regulatory requirements, the applicable laws are broadly written and it is often difficult to determine precisely how these laws will be applied in specific circumstances.  Regulatory authorities may challenge our joint ventures or our operation of joint ventures on the grounds that they are intended to induce patient referrals and, if successful, may require that we restructure or terminate our joint ventures, repay to Medicare amounts received by the centers pursuant to any prohibited referrals, and incur the sorts of penalties or sanctions described in the preceding paragraph.. Our NxStage Kidney Care dialysis centers must maintain enrollment in the Medicare program in order to bill and receive payment for dialysis services provided to patients covered by Medicare and certain private insurers. Medicare enrollment requires, among other things, that a center successfully complete a certification process conducted by individual state agencies on behalf of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services and that certification requirements be met on an ongoing basis. Our NxStage Kidney Care dialysis centers may be unable to obtain Medicare certification in a timely manner, if at all, or could lose certification upon resurvey if they are found to not meet applicable requirements. Our NxStage Kidney Care dialysis centers have provided us with valuable experience to better meet and anticipate the needs of both our customers and patients, while optimizing our product technology. Our customers may, however, perceive these centers to be directly competing with their business which could, and may have already, negatively impact product sales.. We face competition from many sources.. The dialysis therapy industry is highly dynamic and we face competition from many sources, including those that are listed in the section of this Annual Report entitled \"Business - Our Competition.\"  Our competitors may have significant competitive advantages by:. • offering products and services that are more widely recognized by physicians, patients and providers;. • offering broader product lines which enable them to offer customers a single source for multiple products;. • having significantly more financial and human resources, more established service and customer support infrastructures and spending more on product development and marketing;. • having more established sales forces and distribution channels; and. 28. • having more established relationships with the providers of dialysis therapy, including DaVita and Fresenius which may at any time reduce their promotion of our dialysis products to their dialysis patients.. Further consolidation within the highly competitive dialysis industry may exacerbate these risks.. Our in-center business is increasingly subject to pricing and other competitive pressures within the highly consolidated U.S. dialysis services industry. A meaningful portion of that business was lost when our needle purchase agreement with DaVita expired in December 2014 and we experienced reduced demand for our blood tubing sets from Baxter during 2016 and 2017. While we believe our in-center products offer benefits over competing products, our customers often regard blood tubing sets and needles as commodities and we are vulnerable to large changes in purchasing patterns for these products. Unless we can successfully demonstrate to customers the differentiating features of our blood tubing sets and needles, we may continue to be susceptible to pressures to reduce our product pricing and more vulnerable to reduction in sales of our blood tubing sets and needles.. As we attain greater commercial success, our competitors are likely to develop products that offer features and functionality similar to the System One and our other products. Improvements in existing competitive products or the introduction of new competitive products may make it more difficult for us to compete for sales, particularly if those competitive products demonstrate better reliability, convenience or effectiveness or are offered at lower prices.. The development of viable medical, pharmacological and technological advances in treating or preventing kidney failure may also limit the opportunity for our products and services. While kidney transplantation is the treatment of choice for most patients with end-stage renal disease, it is not currently a viable treatment for most patients due to the limited number of donor kidneys, the high incidence of kidney transplant rejection and the higher surgical risk associated with older patients.  This may change, however, with the development of new medications designed to reduce the incidence of kidney transplant rejection, progress in using kidneys harvested from genetically engineered animals as a source of transplants, and other advances in kidney transplantation.. We need to maintain strong product reliability to grow our business.. We need to maintain strong reliability for our existing products to achieve our growth and profitability objectives. Poor product reliability could lead to customer dissatisfaction, adversely affect our reputation and revenues, and increase our service and distribution costs and working capital requirements. We also need to establish strong product reliability for all new products we offer. With new products, we are more exposed to risks relating to product quality and reliability until the manufacturing processes for these new products mature. From time to time, we may transition the manufacturing and supply of products and components to different suppliers or locations. As we make these changes, we are more exposed to risks relating to product quality and reliability until the manufacturing processes mature. Like all transitions of this nature, they could increase our costs in the near-term.. We need to develop and commercialize new products to grow our business.. Our future growth requires that we develop and commercialize new products in a timely manner to address changing industry requirements. Otherwise, we may lose revenues to our competitors, which may be difficult to regain. Developing innovative products and bringing them to market requires significant investment without assurance of success. In addition, this is a highly costly, lengthy and uncertain process, and we may experience delays in developing or commercializing new products.  Our efforts may not produce commercially viable products due to the many technological, regulatory, operational and other risks associated with product development, including:. • the new product may not perform as intended or may have safety concerns;. • the costs associated with obtaining regulatory approval or in satisfying applicable regulatory requirements may be prohibitive and, even in markets where these costs are not prohibitive, the associated efforts may significantly lengthen projected timelines for new product introduction;. • the FDA and other regulatory authorities may not approve the new product or the facilities in which it is manufactured in a timely manner or at all;. • payors may not reimburse the new product sufficiently or at all;. • competing products may be safer, more effective or easier to use; and. • we may be unable to manufacture sufficient quantities of the new product for development or commercialization activities in a timely and cost-effective manner.. General economic and financial market conditions may exacerbate our business risks.. Global macro-economic conditions and the world's financial markets remain susceptible to significant stresses, resulting in reductions in available credit and government spending, economic downturn or stagnation, foreign currency fluctuations and. 29. volatility in the valuations of securities generally.  Our customers and distributors may respond to such economic pressures by reducing or deferring their capital spending or reducing staff.  As a result, they may choose to pay for System One equipment on a monthly basis versus upfront, which may reduce our cash flows, and have fewer personnel available to train new patients for home hemodialysis.  Our international business is particularly vulnerable to global macro economic conditions. Furthermore, unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar could increase our product costs, thus reducing our gross profit, or render our products overly expensive, thus reducing our revenues.. We may not effectively manage our growth.. Our business growth will strain our administrative and operational infrastructure unless we:. • increase our manufacturing capacity to meet customer demand;. • expand our sales and marketing and on-going development capabilities;. • improve our information technology infrastructure, operational, financial and management controls and reporting systems and procedures; and. • manage the increased complexity and scope of our relationships with various partners, distributors, suppliers, manufacturers and other organizations.. We may be unable to implement such changes in an efficient and timely manner, and in the process of expansion may discover deficiencies in our existing systems and controls.. We need to effectively manage our field equipment.. Our home market relies upon an equipment service swap model and, for some of our customers, a month-to-month equipment rental model that requires us to effectively manage our System One and PureFlow SL field equipment.  While a majority of System One equipment sold in the home market is paid for upfront by our customer versus on a monthly basis, this may change due to pressures within the healthcare industry to reduce capital spending and other factors.  Increases in our field equipment assets would increase our ongoing cash requirements to fund working capital. In addition, our gross margins may be negatively impacted if we have excess equipment deployed and unused in the field. If we are unable to successfully track, service and redeploy equipment, we could incur increased costs, realize increased cash requirements and have material write-offs of equipment. This would negatively impact our working capital requirements and future profitability.. We may be subject to litigation claims from time to time.. From time to time, we are threatened with individual actions involving our business, including without limitation products liability, employment, intellectual property, commercial and tort claims. The manufacture and marketing of medical devices, in particular, has an attendant risk of product liability claims. If any of our employees or products is found to have caused or contributed to injuries or deaths, we could be held liable for substantial damages. Any claims made against us could adversely affect our reputation and damage our position in the market. Claims can also be time consuming, distracting, and expensive to defend and could result in a diversion of management and financial resources away from our primary business, in which case our business may suffer.  Any investigation into alleged unlawful conduct could increase our expenses, damage our reputation, and divert management time and attention from operating our business. While we maintain insurance at levels deemed adequate by management, future claims may exceed our insurance coverage or may not be covered by any insurance.. Acquiring or developing businesses, technologies or products may present new challenges.. In the course of evaluating growth opportunities, we may acquire or develop businesses, technologies or products, as we did in 2007 with the acquisition of Medisystems and in 2013 with the introduction of our NxStage Kidney Care dialysis centers. We may also devote resources to potential acquisitions that are never completed or may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such efforts. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with any growth or change in business lines or strategy that may prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits of such opportunities or adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation, including:. • need for significant investment without assurance of success;. • potential disruption of our ongoing business;. • need for involvement of senior management to develop the acquired businesses, technologies or products, which will take away from the time they ordinarily spend on the remainder of our business;. • entry into markets or types of businesses in which we have limited experience;. • impairment of relationships with key partners, customers or suppliers of ours or any acquired business;. • addition of new complex compliance obligations;. 30. • difficulty in managing geographically remote units both in the U.S. and internationally;. • difficulty in successfully implementing, upgrading and deploying in a timely and effective manner new operational information systems and upgrades of our finance, accounting and product distribution systems;. • difficulty in incorporating acquired technology and rights into our product and service offerings;. • unanticipated expenses and delays in completing acquired development projects and technology integration;. • difficulty in transitioning and integrating the operations and personnel of an acquired businesses, including with respect to differing and complex accounting and financial reporting systems;. • customers delaying purchases of our products pending resolution of product integration between our existing and our newly acquired products;. • loss of key employees of an acquired company; and. • inaccurate assumptions of an acquired company's product or service quality.. Further, any acquired technology or product may require additional development efforts prior to commercial sale, including clinical testing and approval by the FDA and applicable foreign regulatory authorities. All technology and product candidates are prone to risks of failure typical of medical device product development, including the possibility that a product candidate will not be shown to be sufficiently safe and effective for approval by regulatory authorities.. We have international operations that introduce a number of risks and uncertainties.. Substantially all of our manufacturing is done outside the U.S. We operate manufacturing facilities in Germany, Italy and Mexico, and purchase components, products and supplies from foreign vendors. We also sell our products internationally, and are increasing our presence in international markets. We are subject to a number of risks and challenges that specifically relate to these international operations, including:. • foreign exchange risk, in particular with respect to the euro and peso, which has been amplified by the recent strength of the U.S. dollar and which could adversely affect our financial results and our ability to maintain mutually beneficial and profitable relationships with foreign vendors, distributors and customers, and increase our costs to attract and retain international personnel;. • expropriation and other restrictive government actions;. • changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies;. • costs and challenges associated with sourcing and shipping goods internationally and importing and exporting goods;. • changes to U.S. and foreign trade policies, including enactment of tariffs or border-adjusted taxes on goods imported into the U.S.;. • difficulty managing operations in multiple locations;. • local regulations that may restrict or impair our ability to conduct our operations, increase compliance costs, and make it more expensive and complex to manage our workforce;. • fluctuations in local economic conditions;. • health issues, such as pandemic disease risk, and natural disasters, such as flooding, hurricanes and earthquakes, which could disrupt our manufacturing and logistical and import activities; and. • in certain locations, risks associated with local instability, including threats of violence, which could lead to disruptions in supply at our manufacturing facilities or key vendors.. These risks and uncertainties may adversely impact our international growth strategy in these markets and overall operating profits.  Risks associated with our international operations may increase where we sell our products and services directly rather than through distributors, as we do in the UK and Canada.. During June 2016, the referendum by UK voters to exit the EU (Brexit) adversely impacted global markets and resulted in a sharp decline of the British pound sterling against our reporting currency, the US dollar. Continued volatility in or devaluation of the British pound sterling may adversely affect our results of operations by reducing our reported international sales and earnings and causing our UK customers to reduce their investment in healthcare. The further impact of Brexit on our international business will depend on any agreements the UK makes to retain access to EU markets.  Although it is unknown what the terms of the UK's future relationship with the EU will be, the imposition of greater restrictions on imports and exports between the UK and EU countries and an increase in regulatory complexity could adversely affect our relationships with our customers, suppliers and employees in the UK.. 31. Our In-Center and international businesses rely heavily upon third-party distributors.. Substantially all of our blood tubing sets and needles are sold through distributors.  We also use distributors to sell our products in most of our international markets.  Relying on third-party distributors exposes us to many risks, including competitive pressure, compliance risks, credit risk and concentration.  Relying on third-party distributors can also introduce choppiness into our revenues.  From time to time, distributors may alter their purchasing patterns, and their subsequent inventories on hand, in order to obtain shipping efficiencies, earned or offered discounts, or in order to optimize their individual cash flows.  Furthermore, distributors may delay or defer purchase decisions with regards to our products or seek to terminate or renegotiate their relationships with us as a result of our proposed Merger with Fresenius, whether pursuant to the terms of their existing agreements with us or otherwise.. Distributors may sell products that compete with our products, and we may be unable to motivate them to focus their efforts on selling our products. The trend toward consolidation among distributors may yield greater purchasing leverage, which may increase the pricing pressures facing our business.  If our distributors fail to comply with applicable laws in the sale and marketing of our products or fulfill any other responsibilities they may have, our revenues may decline and we may become involved in legal proceedings. Distributors may face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm our collection of accounts receivable and financial results. Moving any of this business to other distributors would involve switching costs in the near-term that may be material relative to the value of the business involved.. We rely on the expertise of a concentrated group of employees.. Our success depends upon the skills, experience and efforts of our senior executives and other key personnel, including our research and development and manufacturing executives and managers. Much of our expertise is concentrated in relatively few employees, the loss of whom for any reason could negatively affect our business. Competition for our highly skilled employees is intense and we cannot prevent the future resignation of any employee.. Risks Related to the Regulatory Environment. Our products and business are subject to extensive regulation.. We need regulatory approvals to market new products and, in some cases, modifications to existing marketed products.  Regulatory approval pathways for medical products are complex, time consuming and difficult to define, and they may become more onerous through additional regulation.  We may be unable to obtain the necessary approvals to market our new products and modifications to marketed products in a timely manner, if at all.  Additionally, the costs and timelines associated with obtaining the necessary approvals for new products may be prohibitive.. Foreign markets are challenging as the regulatory approval procedure varies from country to country and requires that we comply with numerous regulatory requirements that differ from the FDA approval process and are not superseded by obtaining approval from the FDA or another country's regulatory authority.   As regulatory requirements in the U.S. and internationally become increasingly more stringent, it may become more difficult, time consuming and costly for us to obtain future approvals for our products and expand into new markets.. In certain foreign markets, some of our products are regulated differently than they are in the United States, which has required us to demonstrate compliance with different regulations and has increased the cost of obtaining applicable regulatory approvals.  As we introduce new products into foreign markets, new and complex regulations may impose additional approval, manufacturing, surveillance and reporting requirements for our products, beyond those we already have experience complying with.  Compliance with these additional requirements may increase our costs of doing business in new foreign markets and delay or prevent our entry into such markets.. Following marketing approval, we must comply with numerous ongoing regulatory requirements, industry codes of conduct and consensus standards, including those described in the section of this Annual Report entitled \"Business - Government Regulation.\"  Noncompliance with applicable regulations can result in, among other things:. •untitled letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties;. •unanticipated expenditures to address or defend such actions. •customer notifications for repair, replacement, refunds;. •recall, detention or seizure of our products;. •operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production;. •refusing or delaying our requests for 510(k) clearance or premarket approval of new products or modified products;. •operating restrictions;. •withdrawing 510(k) clearances on PMA approvals that have already been granted;. •refusal to grant export approval for our products; or. •criminal prosecution.. Such enforcement measures would require unanticipated expenditures to address or defend such actions and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation.. 32. New regulations, codes and standards are periodically adopted which may require us to change our existing product technologies, operating procedures or marketing practices in order to continue selling our products.  For example, the EU regulatory bodies recently finalized new medical device regulations, which will take effect in 2020 after a three year transition period.  These new regulations change several aspects of the existing regulatory framework, including requiring stricter regulation of notified bodies by national authorities and imposing more stringent post-market surveillance obligations.  We face greater uncertainty as these stricter and more complex regulations are implemented and enforced in the coming years. In addition, regulatory authorities have been increasingly aggressive in their enforcement activities and scrutiny of medical device and healthcare companies.  Any of these factors may expose us to increased compliance costs and the assessment of significant fines, as well as risks that we may be unable to satisfy the new regulations, codes or standards, or more expansive interpretations of existing regulations, and have to suspend, curtail or otherwise modify our selling and marketing efforts and other aspects of our operations.. Modifications to our marketed products may require new 510(k) clearances or PMA approvals, or may require us to cease marketing or recall the modified products until clearances or approvals are obtained.. Modifications to our products may require new regulatory approvals or clearances, including 510(k) clearances or premarket approvals, or require us to recall or cease marketing the modified devices until these clearances or approvals are obtained. The FDA requires device manufacturers to initially make and document a determination of whether or not a modification requires a new approval, supplement or clearance. A manufacturer may determine that a modification could not significantly affect safety or efficacy and does not represent a major change in its intended use, so that no new 510(k) clearance is necessary. However, the FDA can review a manufacturer's decision and may disagree. The FDA may also on its own initiative determine that a new clearance or approval is required. We have made modifications to our products in the past and may make additional modifications in the future that we believe do not or will not require additional clearances or approvals. If the FDA disagrees and requires new clearances or approvals for the modifications, we may be required to recall and to stop marketing our products as modified, which could require us to redesign our products and harm our operating results. In these circumstances, we may be subject to significant enforcement actions.. If a manufacturer determines that a modification to an FDA-cleared device could significantly affect its safety or efficacy, or would constitute a major change in its intended use, then the manufacturer must file for a new 510(k) clearance or possibly a premarket approval application. Where we determine that modifications to our products require a new 510(k) clearance or premarket approval application, we may not be able to obtain those additional clearances or approvals for the modifications or additional indications in a timely manner, or at all. For those products sold in the EU, we must notify our EU Notified Body, if significant changes are made to the products or if there are substantial changes to our quality assurance systems affecting those products. Obtaining clearances and approvals can be a time consuming process, and delays in obtaining required future clearances or approvals would adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn would harm our future growth.. Our future success depends on our ability to develop, receive regulatory clearance or approval for, and introduce new products or product enhancements that will be accepted by the market in a timely manner.. It is important to our business that we build a pipeline of product offerings that address limitations of current dialysis and disposable products. As such, our success will depend in part on our ability to develop and introduce new products. However, we may not be able to successfully develop and obtain regulatory clearance or approval for product enhancements, or new products for any number of reasons, including due to the cost associated with certain regulatory approval requirements, or these products may not be accepted by physicians or users.. The success of any new product offering or enhancement to an existing product will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to, among others:. • identify and anticipate physician and patient needs properly;. • develop and introduce new products or product enhancements in a timely manner;. • avoid infringing upon the intellectual property rights of third parties;. • demonstrate, if required, the safety and efficacy of new products with data from preclinical and clinical studies;. • obtain the necessary regulatory clearances or approvals for new products or product enhancements;. • comply fully with FDA and foreign regulations on marketing of new products or modified products; and. • provide adequate training to potential users of our products.. If we do not develop new products or product enhancements in time to meet market demand or if there is insufficient demand for these products or enhancements, or if our competitors introduce new products with functionalities that are superior to ours, our results of operations will suffer.. 33. If our products cause or contribute to a death or a serious injury, or malfunction in certain ways, we will be subject to medical device reporting regulations, which can result in voluntary corrective actions or agency enforcement actions.. Under the FDA medical device reporting regulations, medical device manufacturers are required to report to the FDA information that a device has or may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or has malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction of the device or one of our similar devices were to recur.  If we fail to report these events to the FDA within the required timeframes, or at all, the FDA could take enforcement action against us. Any such adverse event involving our products also could result in future voluntary corrective actions, such as recalls or customer notifications, or agency action, such as inspection or enforcement action.  Any corrective action, whether voluntary or involuntary, as well as defending ourselves in a lawsuit, will require the dedication of our time and capital, distract management from operating our business, and may harm our reputation and financial results.. Our products may be recalled from the market.. Medical devices can experience performance problems in the field that require review and possible corrective action.  The occurrence of component failures, manufacturing errors, software errors, design defects or labeling inadequacies affecting a medical device could lead to a government-mandated or voluntary recall by the device manufacturer, in particular when such deficiencies may endanger health. The FDA requires that certain classifications of recalls be reported to FDA within 10 working days after the recall is initiated. Companies are required to maintain certain records of recalls, even if they are not reportable to the FDA. From time to time we have chosen to voluntarily recall certain products that we believed were mislabeled or otherwise defective. We also may initiate voluntary recalls involving our products in the future that we determine do not require notification of the FDA.  If the FDA disagrees with our determinations, they could require us to report those actions as recalls. Product recalls may divert management attention and financial resources, expose us to product liability or other claims, harm our reputation with customers and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with ongoing FDA or foreign regulatory authority requirements, or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products, these products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market.. Any product for which we obtain approval or clearance, and the manufacturing processes, reporting requirements, post-market clinical data and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continued regulatory review, oversight and periodic inspections by the FDA and other domestic and foreign regulatory bodies. In particular, we and our third-party suppliers are required to comply with the Quality System Requirements (QSR). The QSR covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of our products. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review and is monitored rigorously through periodic inspections by the FDA. If we, or our manufacturers, fail to adhere to QSR requirements in the U.S. or experience delays in obtaining necessary regulatory approvals or clearances, this could delay production of our products and lead to fines, difficulties in obtaining regulatory approvals or clearances, recalls, enforcement actions, including injunctive relief or consent decrees, or other consequences, which could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. U.S. legislative or FDA regulatory reforms may make it more difficult and costly for us to obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates and to manufacture, market and distribute our products after approval is obtained.. From time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced in Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the regulatory approval, manufacture and marketing of regulated products or the reimbursement thereof. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the FDA in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. Any new regulations or revisions or reinterpretations of existing regulations may impose additional costs or lengthen review times of future products. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the agency in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. It is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted or FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations changed, and what the impact of such changes, if any, may be.. For example, the policies of the new administration and their impact on the regulation of our products in the U.S. remain uncertain.  The outcome of the 2016 election and the forthcoming 2018 mid-term elections could result in significant legislative and regulatory reforms impacting the FDA's regulation of our products.  Any change in the laws or regulations that govern the clearance and approval processes relating to our current and future products could make it more difficult and costly to obtain clearance or approval for new products, or to produce, market and distribute existing products. Significant delays in receiving clearance or approval, or the failure to receive clearance or approval for our new products would have an adverse effect on our ability to expand our business.. We need to protect the privacy of patient health and other personal information.. 34. In the course of performing our business we obtain, from time to time, confidential patient health information and other personal information.  Federal and state laws, as well as the laws of foreign countries, protect the confidentiality of certain patient health information, in particular individually identifiable information, and other personal information, and restrict the use and disclosure of that information.  A description of these laws is included in the section of this Annual Report entitled \"Business - Government Regulation - Privacy and Security.\"  Complying with the privacy and security requirements of such laws imposes compliance related costs, subjects us to potential regulatory audits, and may restrict our business operations. These various laws may be subject to varying interpretations by courts and government agencies creating potentially complex compliance issues for our business. If we were to violate any of our legal obligations to safeguard any confidential patient health or other personal information against improper use and disclosure, we could lose customers and be exposed to liability, including potential civil and criminal penalties and contractual liabilities, and our reputation and business could be harmed.  Concerns or allegations about our practices with regard to the privacy or security of personal health information or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We must comply with fraud and abuse laws.. Various federal and state laws, as well as the laws of foreign countries, prohibit payments to induce the referral, purchase, order or use of healthcare products or services and require medical device companies to monitor and report certain payments to health care professionals.  These anti-kickback, public reporting and aggregate spend laws affect our sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales programs, we may have with dialysis providers, hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers or users, including patients, of medical devices and services. They also impose additional administrative and compliance burdens on us. In particular, these laws influence, among other things, how we structure our sales and rental offerings, including discount practices, customer support, education and training programs and physician consulting and other service arrangements.  For our NxStage Kidney Care dialysis centers, they also affect our arrangements with any joint venture partners in a position to refer patients, our medical directors and our patient billing and collection practices.  If we were to offer or pay inappropriate inducements for the purchase, order or use of our products or services, or for the referral of patients to our NxStage Kidney Care dialysis centers, we could be subject to claims under various healthcare fraud and abuse laws, including the federal healthcare program Anti-Kickback Statute, the Federal False Claims Act, the Medicare and Medicaid beneficiary inducement prohibition or similar state laws. If we fail to comply with particular reporting requirements, we could be subject to penalties under applicable federal or state laws. A shifting and diverse regulatory environment increases the associated compliance risks since different jurisdictions may have different reporting requirements.. Other federal and state laws, as well as the laws of foreign countries, generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payments to government or commercial payors that are false or fraudulent, or for items or services that were not provided as claimed.  Medical device manufacturers can be held liable under these laws if they are deemed to \"cause\" the submission of false or fraudulent claims by providing inaccurate billing or coding information to customers, by providing improper financial inducements, or through certain other activities. In addition, our NxStage Kidney Care dialysis centers are directly subject to these laws with respect to the reimbursement claims they file with government or commercial payors. Potential false or fraudulent claim risk can arise from promoting and billing for services the government or other third party payers deem excessive or not medically necessary, as well as from other billing improprieties and from failure to timely return any identified overpayments. We attempt to ensure that billing by our NxStage Kidney Care dialysis centers is proper and that physicians who order NxStage Kidney Care dialysis services document medical need for patients for whom more frequent than thrice weekly therapy is ordered. Nevertheless, the government may not regard any billing errors that may be made as inadvertent and may examine our role in providing information to our customers, physicians and patients concerning the benefits and potential coverage of more frequent therapy. Likewise, our financial relationships with customers, physicians, patients or others in a position to influence the purchase or use of our products may be subject to government scrutiny or be alleged or found to violate applicable fraud and abuse laws. False claims laws prescribe civil, criminal and administrative penalties for noncompliance, which can be substantial and, raise the possibility of exclusion from participation in government health care programs, potentially crippling to the line of business involved.  Moreover, any investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity and require a costly and time consuming response.. Foreign governments tend to impose strict price controls.. We market the System One and certain of our other products internationally. In some foreign countries, particularly in the EU, the pricing of medical devices is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after a device has been CE marked. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to supply data that compares the cost-effectiveness of our products to other available therapies. If reimbursement of our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, it may not be profitable to sell our products outside of the U.S., which would negatively affect the long-term growth of our business. Furthermore, reimbursement provided for our products in other jurisdictions could change,. 35. positively or negatively. If reimbursements were to be negatively changed, such as in the UK or Canada where we sell our products directly, our ability to profitably sell our products could be impaired.. We must comply with import and export laws and regulations.. We import disposable medical supplies into the U.S. from our manufacturing facilities and vendors located outside the U.S. We have manufacturing facilities in Mexico, Germany and Italy and export various components and assemblies related to those operations. To a lesser but increasing degree, we also export finished goods from the U.S. to foreign countries. The import and export of these items are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with these laws or regulations, or fail to interpret our obligations accurately, we may be subject to significant fines, liabilities, import holds and a disruption in our ability to deliver product. The U.S. federal government has called for substantial changes to trade policies which may include changes to existing trade agreements, including but not limited to the North American Free Trade Agreement.  Changes to capital and exchange controls, expropriation or other restrictive government actions could adversely affect our business.  We also are subject to changes in tax and tariff regulations abroad that could increase our costs and reduce our margins. If there are modifications to the Generalized System of Preferences or cancellation of the Nairobi Protocol tariff classifications that apply to our products such that our products would be subject to duties, our expenses could increase and our profitability may be negatively impacted.. We must comply with anti-bribery laws.. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act which generally prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business and requires companies to maintain accurate books and records and internal controls, including at foreign controlled subsidiaries. Through our international activities, we are also subject to the UK Anti-Bribery Act and other similar anti-bribery laws in other countries. While we have policies and procedures in place designed to promote compliance with such laws, our employees or other agents may nonetheless engage in prohibited conduct under these laws for which we or our executives might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We must comply with environmental and occupational safety laws.. Our research and development programs as well as our manufacturing operations involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, and our NxStage Kidney Care dialysis centers produce medical waste in connection with providing dialysis services. Accordingly, we are subject to federal, state and local laws, as well as the laws of foreign countries, governing the use, handling and disposal of these materials. In the event of an accident or failure to comply with environmental or occupational safety laws, we could be held liable for resulting damages, and any such liability could exceed our insurance coverage.. Our business may be affected by U.S. government contracting risks.. We have agreements with Veterans Health Administration facilities and are one of the key subcontractors on a government contract to develop a portable medical device to treat sepsis. As a result, we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts which, among other things, impose additional costs on our business. If we violate any of these laws or regulations, we may be liable for fines, penalties and any additional costs the government incurs in procuring replacement services, and we may be excluded from future U.S. government contracting.. Risks Related to Operations. We obtain some of our raw materials and production services from a single source.. We depend upon a number of single-source suppliers for certain of our raw materials, components and finished goods, including the fiber used in our System One filters, our needles and sterile bags, as well as sterilization services. Some of our most critical single-source supply relationships are with Membrana and Laboratorios PiSA.. Membrana is our only supplier of the fiber used in our filters for System One products under an agreement that expires in December 2023, and contractually we cannot obtain an alternative source of fiber for our System One products. While our relationship with Asahi could afford us back-up supply in the event of supply disruptions at Membrana, we do not have the regulatory approvals necessary to use Asahi fiber in our System One cartridge in the U.S. and the performance of Asahi fiber in our System One has not yet been validated.. Laboratorios PiSA supplies substantially all of our premixed dialysate. Our supply agreement with Laboratorios PiSA extends through December 2019. We have committed to purchase from Laboratorios PiSA a minimum quantity of premixed dialysate over the term of the agreement. While we purchase premixed dialysate from another qualified supplier, any significant disruption in Laboratorios PiSA's ability to supply premixed dialysate to us would adversely impact our business, at least in the near term.. 36. Our dependence upon these and other single-source suppliers of raw materials, components, finished goods and sterilization services exposes us to several risks, including disruptions in supply, price increases, late deliveries and an inability to meet customer demand. This could lead to customer dissatisfaction, damage to our reputation, or customers switching to competitive products. Any interruption in supply could be particularly damaging to our customers using the System One to treat chronic end-stage renal disease who need access to the System One and related disposables to continue their therapy.. Finding alternative sources for these raw materials, components, finished goods and sterilization services would be difficult and in many cases entail a significant amount of time, disruption and cost. Although we believe our supply chain has sufficient inventory of raw materials, components and finished goods to withstand a temporary disruption in supply from any single source supplier, any permanent or long-term disruption in supply from any single source supplier could lead to supply delays or interruptions which would adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations and harm our reputation, at least in the near term.. We do not have long-term supply contracts with many of our third-party suppliers.. We purchase raw materials and components from third-party suppliers, including some single-source suppliers, through purchase orders and do not have long-term supply contracts with many of our suppliers. Many of our suppliers are not obligated to perform services or supply products for any specific period, in any specific quantity or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. We do not maintain large volumes of inventory from most of our suppliers. If we inaccurately forecast demand for finished goods, we may be unable to meet customer demand which could harm our competitive position and reputation. In addition, if we fail to effectively manage our relationships with our suppliers, we may be required to change suppliers, which may be time consuming and lead to disruptions in our product supply.. We may experience manufacturing disruptions.. We rely on our manufacturing facilities in Mexico, Italy and Germany for the production of our equipment and disposables. The loss of any of these facilities due to fire, natural disaster, war, power failure or other cause beyond our control could cause significant production delays, prevent us from meeting customer demand for our products, increase our product costs, impair our product quality or reliability, and result in substantially decreased revenues.. While we have labor agreements with our production employees in Mexico and Italy, we may experience strikes, work stoppages, work slowdowns, high employee turnover, grievances, complaints, claims of unfair labor practices, other collective bargaining disputes or other labor disputes at our manufacturing facilities. Some of our key single-source suppliers also have labor agreements in place, but nonetheless may be subject to similar risks related to labor disputes. Any such activity likely would cause production delays and prevent us from delivering our production commitments to customers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and harm our reputation.. Commodity and electronic component price increases may adversely affect our financial results.. Resin is a key material in the manufacture of our products, including the System One cartridge. We currently source resin from a small number of suppliers. Periods of rising prices for crude oil, natural gas and other petrochemical intermediates from which resin is produced can result in significant price increases for this material.  Periods of rising resin prices may occur in the future. In addition, we believe electronic component demand is rising, which may cause lead times to increase and prices to rise, potentially impacting both delivery and cost.. Our contracts with customers restrict our ability to immediately pass on these price increases, and future pricing to customers may be insufficient to accommodate increasing material costs.  In addition, our overall cost reduction plans may not sufficiently offset the impact of increased material costs, which could result in declining margins and operating results.. We currently incur significant inbound and outbound distribution costs, which are dependent upon fuel prices. Increases in fuel prices could lead to increases in our distribution costs, which could impair our ability to achieve profitability.. Our business is dependent upon the security and uninterrupted operation of our information technology infrastructure.. We rely on information technology and telephone networks and systems, including the Internet, to process and transmit sensitive electronic information, including confidential patient health information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities, including sales, billing, customer service, procurement and supply chain, manufacturing, and distribution. We use enterprise information technology systems to record, process, and summarize financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory, financial reporting, legal, and tax requirements.  Our information technology systems, some of which are managed by third-parties and are highly interconnected, may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, failures during the process of installing, upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, power outages, hardware failures, telecommunication failures, user errors or catastrophic events. In addition, these systems can require significant resources to ensure their continuous operation. Despite the precautionary measures we have taken to prevent breakdowns in our information. 37. technology and telephone systems, if our systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown and we are unable to effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, we may be subject to remediation expenses, reputational harm, and litigation.. Risks Related to Intellectual Property. We have to protect our intellectual property.. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, to protect our proprietary technology and prevent others from duplicating our products. However, these means may afford only limited protection and may not:. • prevent our competitors from duplicating our products;. • prevent our competitors from gaining access to our proprietary information and technology; or. • permit us to gain or maintain a competitive advantage.. These risks may increase in foreign countries whose laws do not protect intellectual property rights effectively or to the same extent as U.S. laws.. Any of our patents, including those we may license, may be challenged, invalidated, rendered unenforceable or circumvented. We may not prevail if our patents are challenged by competitors or other third parties. The U.S. federal courts or equivalent national courts or patent offices elsewhere may invalidate our patents, find them unenforceable, or narrow their scope. Furthermore, competitors may be able to design around our patents, or obtain patent protection for more effective technologies, designs or methods for treating kidney failure. If these developments were to occur, our products may become less competitive and sales of our products may decline.. We have filed numerous patent applications seeking protection of products and other inventions originating from our research and development. Our patent applications may not result in issued patents, and any patents that are issued may not provide meaningful protection against competitors or competitive technologies.. Our products could infringe the intellectual property rights of others.. The medical device industry has been characterized by extensive litigation and administrative proceedings regarding patent infringement and intellectual property rights. Products to provide kidney replacement therapy have been available for more than 50 years and our competitors hold a significant number of patents relating to kidney replacement devices, therapies, products and supplies. Competitors and other third parties may allege that our products or methods infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights, and the possibility of such infringement claims may increase as our business expands into new markets.. Infringement and other intellectual property claims and proceedings brought against us, whether successful or not, could result in substantial financial costs and harm to our reputation. Such claims and proceedings can also divert management and key personnel from other tasks important to the success of the business. In addition, intellectual property litigation or claims could require us to:. • cease selling or using any of our products that incorporate the asserted intellectual property, which would adversely affect our revenues;. • pay substantial damages for past use of the asserted intellectual property;. • obtain a license from the holder of the asserted intellectual property, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all and which could reduce profitability; and. • redesign or rename, in the case of trademark claims, our products to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may not be possible and could be costly and time consuming if it is possible to do so.. Disclosure of trade secrets and other confidential information may harm our business.. 38. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our corporate partners, employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers, advisors and others. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and trade secrets and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information or trade secrets. In addition, others may independently discover or reverse engineer trade secrets and confidential information, and in such cases we may be unable to assert any trade secret rights against such party. Others also may be able to obtain patent protection covering trade secrets and prevent us from practicing those trade secrets. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive position.. Many of our employees have worked at other medical device companies focused on the development of dialysis products, including our competitors. We may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other confidential information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or be enjoined from manufacturing or selling products. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial financial costs and harm to our reputation and be a distraction to management and other key employees.. Risks Related to our Common Stock. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly.. Our current stock price may reflect a market assumption that our proposed Merger will occur, meaning that a failure to complete the Merger could result in a decline in the price of our common stock.  Historically, there have been periods of volatility in the market price of our common stock, and if they were to recur could delay or prevent you from selling your common stock at or above the price you paid for it. Some of the factors that may have caused the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include:. • timing of commercial launch and acceptance of our products;. • timing of achieving profitability from operations;. • changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts or the failure to meet or exceed securities analysts' expectations;. • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results;. • future debt or equity financings;. • developments or disputes with key vendors or customers, or adverse changes to the purchasing patterns of key customers and distributors;. • disruptions in product supply for any reason, our failure to appropriately forecast supply or demand, difficulties in moving products across international borders, or the failure of third party suppliers to produce needed products or components;. • reports by officials or health, medical or regulatory authorities or the general media regarding the potential benefits of the System One, similar dialysis products distributed by other companies, or more frequent or home dialysis;. • delays or failures to obtain marketing approval for new products or modifications to marketed products;. • product recalls and withdrawals;. • defaults under our material contracts, including without limitation our credit agreement;. • regulatory developments in the U.S. and foreign countries;. • changes in third-party healthcare reimbursements, particularly a decline in the level of Medicare reimbursement for dialysis treatments, or the willingness of Medicare contractors to pay for more than three treatments a week where medically justified;. • regulatory changes that could affect our profitability, such as the imposition of import tariffs and border-adjusted taxes;. • litigation involving our company or our industry;. • announcements of technical innovations or new products by our competitors;. • developments or disputes concerning our patents or other proprietary rights;. 39. • our ability to manufacture and supply our products to commercial standards;. • significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by us or our competitors;. • departures of key personnel;. • investors' general perception of our company, our products, the economy and general market conditions; and. • the other risks and uncertainties described in these \"Risk Factors.\". The stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Periods of volatility in the market price of our securities may engender class action securities litigation against us. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and harm our reputation.. If we obtain additional financing for acquisitions and other growth initiatives, it may reduce the market value of our common shares.. As part of our growth strategy, we may acquire other businesses and technologies and pursue additional business opportunities. To finance such activity, we may issue equity securities, which may dilute our existing stockholders, and incur debt, which may place restrictions on our business operations. Such financing activity may reduce the market value of our common shares and other securities, in particular if the initiatives being funded are not viewed favorably by our stockholders or are ultimately unsuccessful. Additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all, particularly in light of the volatility in the financial markets and the valuations of securities generally.. Risks Related to the Proposed Merger. The proposed Merger is subject to a number of conditions beyond our control. Failure to complete the proposed Merger within the expected timeframe, or at all, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and our stock price.. The consummation of our proposed acquisition (the Merger) by Fresenius Medical Care Holdings, Inc. (Fresenius) remains conditioned, among other things, on: (i) the absence of any governmental order or law preventing the Merger or making the consummation of the Merger illegal, (ii) receipt of regulatory approval under the HSR Act or the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting periods (and any extension thereof) under the HSR Act, and (iii) other customary closing conditions.. We cannot predict whether and when these remaining conditions will be satisfied. If one or more of these conditions is not satisfied, and as a result, we do not complete the proposed Merger, we would remain liable for significant transaction costs, and the focus of our management would have been diverted from seeking other potential strategic opportunities, in each case without realizing any benefits of the proposed Merger. Certain costs associated with the proposed Merger have already been incurred or may be payable even if the proposed Merger is not consummated. Finally, disruptions to our business resulting from the pendency of the proposed Merger, including adverse changes in our relationships with our customers, partners, suppliers and employees, could continue or accelerate in the event that we fail to consummate the proposed Merger.. Our stock price may also fluctuate significantly based on announcements by Fresenius and other third parties or us regarding the Merger or based on market perceptions of the likelihood of us satisfying the closing conditions related to the Merger. Such announcements may lead to perceptions in the market that the Merger may not be completed, which could cause our stock price to fluctuate or decline. If we do not consummate the Merger, the price of our common stock may decline significantly from the current market price. Any of these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause a decline in the price of our common stock.. The Merger consideration payable to holders of shares of our common stock will not be adjusted for changes in our business, assets, liabilities, prospects, outlook, financial condition or results of operations, or in the event of any change in our stock price.. The Merger consideration payable to holders of shares of our common stock will not be adjusted for changes in our business, assets, liabilities, prospects, outlook, financial condition or results of operations, or changes in the market price of, analyst estimates of, or projections relating to, our common stock. For example, if we experienced an improvement in our business, assets, liabilities, prospects, outlook, financial condition or results of operations prior to the consummation of the proposed Merger, there would be no adjustment to the amount of the proposed Merger consideration.. We may be unable to obtain the regulatory approvals required to complete the proposed Merger.. One of the conditions to consummation of the proposed Merger is receipt of regulatory approval under the HSR Act, or the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting periods (and any extension thereof) under the HSR Act.  There can be no assurance that such regulatory approval to consummate the proposed Merger will be obtained. If such regulatory approval is. 40. obtained, there can be no assurance as to the timing of such approval, our ability to obtain the approval on satisfactory terms or in the absence of any litigation challenging such approval.  In October 2017, we and Fresenius each received a Request for Additional Information and Documentary Material (also known as a Second Request) from the Federal Trade Commission.  The effect of the Second Request is generally to extend the waiting period imposed by the HSR Act until after Fresenius and we have substantially complied with the Second Request.  In addition, compliance with the Second Request is expected to add to our costs associated with working to close the proposed Merger and divert additional management time and attention from operating our business.. At any time before or after the consummation of the proposed Merger (and notwithstanding the termination of the waiting period under the HSR Act), the U.S. Department of Justice, Federal Trade Commission or any state or non-U.S. governmental entity could take such action, under antitrust laws or otherwise, as it deems necessary or desirable in the public interest. Such action could include seeking to enjoin the consummation of the proposed Merger and seeking the divestiture of substantial assets. Private parties may also seek to take legal action under antitrust laws under certain circumstances. If the proposed Merger does not receive, or timely receive, the required regulatory approval and clearance, or if another event occurs delaying or preventing the proposed Merger, such delay or failure to complete the proposed Merger may create uncertainty or otherwise have negative consequences that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as the price per share for our common stock, at least in the near term.. While the proposed Merger is pending, we are subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions that could disrupt our business.. Whether or not the proposed Merger is consummated, the proposed Merger may have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. The pendency of the Merger diverts management's attention and our resources from ongoing business and operations. Our employees and other key personnel have uncertainties about the effect of the proposed Merger, and the uncertainties may impact our ability to retain, recruit and hire key personnel while the proposed Merger is pending or if it fails to close.  While the proposed Merger is pending, we will continue to incur costs, fees, expenses and charges related to the proposed Merger, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, actions by our suppliers, customers and other business partners in response to the proposed Merger may be adversely impacting our sales, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, the Merger Agreement generally requires us to operate in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, pending consummation of the Merger and restricts us from taking certain actions with respect to our business and financial affairs, if outside the ordinary course of our business, without Fresenius's consent. Such restrictions will be in place until either the Merger is consummated or the Merger Agreement is terminated. For these and other reasons, the pendency of the Merger could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The proposed Merger may impair our ability to attract and retain qualified employees.. Although, to date, the proposed Merger has not adversely impacted our ability to attract and retain qualified employees, as the period of time following the signing of the Merger Agreement continues to increase, our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified employees could be impaired. Furthermore, if key personnel depart because of such uncertainties, or because they do not wish to remain with the combined company after closing, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected."
