[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. We are subject to a number of significant risks inherent in our business.  You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and other information included in this annual report.  If any of the events described below occur, our business and financial results could be seriously harmed.  The trading price of our Class A units could decline as a result of any of these risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Relating to Our Business. Given our focus on achieving superior investment performance with less-than-commensurate risk, and the priority we afford our clients' interests, we may reduce our AUM, restrain its growth, reduce our fees or otherwise alter the terms under which we do business when we deem it appropriate - even in circumstances where others might deem such actions unnecessary.  Our approach could adversely affect our results of operations.. One of the means by which we seek to achieve superior investment performance in each of our strategies is by limiting the AUM in our strategies to an amount that we believe can be invested appropriately in accordance with our investment philosophy and current or anticipated economic and market conditions.  In the past we have taken, and we may continue to take, affirmative steps to limit the growth of our AUM.  These steps include:. • from time to time, we have suspended marketing certain of our open-end funds or other funds that we sub-advise, sometimes for long periods, and have declined to participate in searches aggregating billions of dollars;. • from time to time, we have returned capital from certain of our closed-end funds prior to the end of such funds' respective investment periods;. • we intentionally sized certain of our closed-ended funds to be smaller than their predecessors even though we could have raised additional capital; and. • since our founding we have turned away substantial amounts of capital offered to us for management.. Additionally, we have voluntarily reduced management fee rates or changed the terms of how we assess management fees for certain of our funds or strategies when we deemed it appropriate, even when doing so reduced our short-term revenue, and we may continue to do so in the future.  In addition, we have voluntarily decided to assess management fees for certain of our closed-end funds temporarily based on contributed capital or fund NAV, rather than committed capital, and in certain circumstances we may continue to do so in the future.  We have made these changes not because they were necessary to raise the capital we wanted, but because we deemed it important to demonstrate to our clients that we were not financially incentivized to raise more capital than appropriate for the opportunity set or to deploy capital for the sake of triggering management fees based on a fund's total committed capital, as well as to avoid a disproportionate impact on the funds' net returns.  Additionally, we may from time to time afford certain investors in our funds or separate account clients more favorable economic terms than other investors in the same fund or separate account clients within the same or similar investment strategy, including with respect to management fees and performance-based fees.  The availability of such terms is generally based on the aggregate size of commitments of such investor or client to one or more funds or accounts managed by us.. Our practice of putting our clients' interests first and forsaking short-term advantage by, for example, reducing assets under management or management fee or carried interest rates may reduce the profits we could otherwise realize in the short term and adversely affect our business and financial condition and therefore conflict with the short-term interests of our Class A unitholders.  In addition, to protect our current clients' interests, we may not accept all of the capital offered to us, which may damage our relationships and prospects with potential investors in our funds and may reduce the value of our business and therefore conflict with our Class A unitholders' short-term interests.  Our Class A unitholders should understand that in instances in which our clients' interests diverge from the short-term interests of our Class A unitholders, we intend to act in the interests of our clients.  However, it is our fundamental belief that prioritizing our clients' interests will maximize the long-term value of our business, which, in turn, will benefit our Class A unitholders.. 26. Our business is materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economies, and any disruption or deterioration in these conditions could materially reduce our revenues, earnings and cash flow and adversely affect our overall performance, ability to raise or deploy capital, financial prospects and condition and liquidity position.. Our business and the businesses in which our funds invest are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions throughout the world that are outside our control, such as interest rates, the availability and cost of credit, inflation rates, economic uncertainty, political uncertainty, changes in laws (including laws relating to taxation), trade barriers, commodity prices, currency exchange rates and controls and national and international political circumstances (including wars, terrorist acts and security operations).  The detrimental impact to the U.S. and global financial markets following the unprecedented turmoil in the global capital markets and the financial services industry in late 2008 and early 2009 serves as an example of how global market conditions can cause uncertainty and instability for investment management businesses.  Concerns over increasing interest rates, particularly short-term rates, growing debt loads for certain countries, uncertainty in the global regulatory environment, and uncertainty about the consequences of the U.S. and other governments withdrawing monetary stimulus measures, all highlight the fact that economic conditions remain unpredictable.  Such unpredictability could create volatility in the debt financing market and could negatively impact our business.  Fluctuations in the foreign exchange value of the U.S. dollar could also result in financial market dislocations that could negatively impact deal finance conditions.  These and other uncertain conditions in the global financial markets and economy have resulted in, and may continue to result in, adverse consequences for many of our funds, including restricting such funds' investment activities and impeding such funds' ability to effectively achieve their investment objectives.. The economic environment in the past has resulted in, and may in the future result in, decreases in the market value of certain publicly-traded securities held by some of our funds.  Illiquidity in certain portions of the financial markets could adversely affect the pace of realization of our funds' investments or otherwise restrict the ability of our funds to realize value from their investments, thereby adversely affecting our ability to generate incentive or investment income.  There can be no assurance that conditions in the global financial markets will not deteriorate and/or adversely affect our investments and overall performance.. Our profitability may also be adversely affected by our fixed costs, such as the compensation and expenses of our staff, lease payments on our office space, interest payments on our debt, development of, and maintenance on, our information technology and infrastructure, and the possibility that we would be unable to scale back other costs and otherwise redeploy our resources within a time frame sufficient to match changes in market and economic conditions to take advantage of the opportunities that may be presented by these changes.  As a result, we may not be able to adjust our resources to take advantage of new investment opportunities that may be created as a result of specific dislocations in the market.. Our business depends in large part on our ability to raise capital from investors.  If we were unable to raise such capital, we would be unable to collect management fees or deploy such capital into investments, which would materially reduce our revenues and cash flow and adversely affect our financial condition.. Our ability to raise capital from investors depends on a number of factors, including many that are outside our control.  These include the general economic environment and the number of other investment funds being raised at the same time by our competitors that are focused on the same or similar investment strategies as our funds.  Additionally, investors may reduce (or even eliminate) their investment allocations to alternative investments, including closed-ended private funds and hedge funds.  Poor performance of our funds could also make it more difficult for us to raise new capital.  Investors in our funds may decline to invest in future funds we raise, and investors in our open-end and evergreen funds may withdraw their investments in the funds (on specified withdrawal dates) as a result of poor performance.  Our investors and potential investors continually assess our funds' performance, both on a standalone basis and relative to market benchmarks and our competitors, and our ability to raise capital for existing and future funds and avoid excessive redemptions depends on our funds' relative and absolute performance.  To the extent economic and market conditions deteriorate, we may be unable to raise sufficient amounts of capital to support the investment activities of future funds.. In addition, certain institutional investors, including sovereign wealth funds and public pension funds, have demonstrated an increased preference for alternatives to the traditional investment fund structure, such as managed accounts, funds-of-one and co-investment vehicles.  There can be no assurance that such alternatives will be as profitable for us as the traditional investment fund structure, or as to the impact such a trend could have on the cost of our operations or profitability.  Moreover, certain institutional investors are demonstrating a preference to make direct investments in alternative assets without the assistance of private equity advisers like us.  Such institutional investors may become our competitors and could cease to be our clients.  As some existing investors. 27. cease or significantly curtail making commitments to alternative investment funds, we may need to identify and attract new investors in order to maintain or increase the size of our investment funds.  There are no assurances that we can find or secure capital commitments from new investors.  If economic conditions were to deteriorate or if we are unable to find new investors, we might raise less than our desired amount for a given fund.. If we were unable to successfully raise capital, it could materially reduce our revenue, earnings and cash flow and adversely affect our financial prospects and condition.. We depend on a number of key personnel, and our ability to retain them and attract additional qualified personnel is critical to our success and our growth prospects.. We depend on the diligence, skill, judgment, reputation and business contacts of our key personnel.  Our future success will depend upon our ability to retain our key personnel and our ability to recruit additional qualified personnel.  Our key personnel possess substantial experience and expertise in investing, are responsible for locating and executing our funds' investments, have significant relationships with the institutions that are the source of many of our funds' investment opportunities and in certain cases have strong relationships with our investors.  Therefore, if our key personnel join competitors or form competing companies, it could result in the loss of significant investment opportunities and certain existing investors.. We have experienced departures of key investment professionals in the past and will do so in the future.  Any of those departures could have a negative impact on our ability to achieve our investment objectives.  Indeed, the departure for any reason of any of our most senior professionals, such as Howard Marks or Bruce Karsh, or a significant number of our other investment professionals, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objectives, cause certain of our investors to withdraw capital they invest with us or elect not to commit additional capital to our funds or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business and our prospects.  The departure of some or all of those individuals could also trigger certain \"key person\" provisions in the documentation governing certain of our closed-end funds, which would permit the limited partners of those funds to suspend or terminate the funds' investment periods or withdraw their capital prior to expiration of the applicable lock-up date.  Our key person provisions vary by both strategy and fund and, with respect to each strategy and fund, are typically tied to multiple individuals, meaning that it would require the departure of more than one individual to trigger the key person provisions.  If key person provisions were triggered for all of our closed-end funds with such provisions, and the investment periods for the closed-end funds were terminated, such terminations would, as of December 31, 2017, result in a $19.4 billion decrease in AUM.  As a part of a restructuring in May 2007, our senior employees exchanged their direct or indirect ownership interest in Oaktree Capital Management, LLC, our predecessor company (\"OCM\"), for a new interest in OCGH that vested over time.  Because 100% of these interests have vested, affected employees may be less motivated to remain at Oaktree.. We anticipate that it will be necessary for us to add investment professionals both to grow our team and to replace those who depart.  However, the market for qualified investment professionals is extremely competitive, both in the United States and internationally, and we may not succeed in recruiting additional personnel or we may fail to effectively replace current personnel who depart with qualified or effective successors.  Our efforts to retain and attract investment professionals may also result in significant additional expenses, which could adversely affect our profitability or result in an increase in the portion of our incentive income that we grant to our investment professionals.. Our revenues are highly volatile due to the nature of our business, and we may not experience steady earnings growth, each of which may cause the value of interests in our business to be variable.. Our non-GAAP revenues and cash flow are highly volatile, primarily due to the fact that the incentive income we receive from our funds and the investment income we recognize on our corporate investments in funds and companies, which individually and collectively account for a substantial portion of our income, are highly volatile.  In the case of our closed-end funds, our incentive income is recognized only when it is fixed or determinable under the Method 1 approach offered by generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (\"GAAP\"), which typically occurs in a sporadic and unpredictable fashion.  For purposes of adjusted net income, incentive income is recognized when the underlying fund distributions are known or knowable as of the respective quarter end, which may be later than the time at which the same incentive income is recognized under Method 1.  In addition, we are generally entitled to incentive income (other than tax distributions, which are treated as incentive income) only after all contributed capital and profits representing, typically, an 8% annual preferred return on that capital have been distributed to our funds' limited partners.  In the case of certain evergreen funds, we are generally entitled to receive an annual incentive payment based upon the increase in NAV attributable to or the net profit allocated to a limited partner during a particular calendar year, subject to a high-water mark or a preferred return hurdle.  Given that the investments made by our funds may be illiquid or volatile and that our investment results and the pace of realization. 28. of our investments will vary from fund to fund and period to period, our incentive income likely will vary materially from year to year.. We may also experience fluctuations in our operating results, from quarter to quarter or year to year, due to a host of other factors, including changes in the values of our investments, changes in the operating results of DoubleLine or its funds or other companies in which we have corporate investments, changes in the amount of distributions from our funds or companies in which we have corporate investments, the pace of raising new funds and liquidation of our old funds, dividends or interest paid in respect of investments, changes in our operating or other expenses, the degree to which we encounter competition and general economic and market conditions.  This variability may cause our results for a particular period not to be indicative of our performance in a future period.. As noted above, the timing and amount of incentive income generated by our funds are uncertain and will contribute to the volatility of our net income.  Incentive income depends on our funds' investment performance and opportunities for realizing gains, which may be limited.  In addition, it takes a substantial period of time to identify attractive investment opportunities, to raise all the funds needed to make an investment and then to realize the cash value of an investment through resale, recapitalization or other exit event.  Even if an investment proves to be profitable, it may be several years or longer before those profits can be realized in cash or other manner of payment.  We cannot predict when, or if, any realization of investments will occur.  If we have a realization event in a particular quarter, it may have a significant impact on our revenues and profits for that particular quarter, which may not be replicated in subsequent quarters.. A small number of our open-end funds and certain evergreen funds also generate performance-based revenues based on their investment returns as compared with a specified market index or other benchmark.  As a result, we may not earn a performance fee in a particular period even if the fund had a positive return.  The incentive income and performance fee revenues we earn are therefore dependent on, among other factors, the NAV of the fund and, in certain cases, its performance relative to its benchmark, which may lead to volatility in our quarterly or annual financial results.. The historical financial information included in this annual report is not necessarily indicative of our future performance.. The historical financial information included in this annual report is not necessarily indicative of our future financial results.  This financial information does not purport to represent or predict the results of any future periods.. The results of future periods are likely to be materially different as a result of:. • future growth that does not follow our historical trends;. • changes in the economic environment, competitive landscape and financial markets;. • new and additional costs and expenses attributable to our operations, including our operations as a public company, as an adviser to mutual funds and business development companies, and as a company within an extensively regulated industry;. • increases in non-cash compensation charges relating to the vesting of OCGH and Class A units; and. • changes in corporate income tax affecting the income of certain of our Intermediate Holding Companies that are taxed as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. Our funds depend on investment cycles, and any change in such cycles could have an adverse effect on our investment prospects.. Cyclicality is important to our business.  Weak economic environments have tended to afford us our best investment opportunities and our best relative investment performance.  For example, the relative performance of our High Yield Bond strategy has typically been strongest in difficult times when default rates are highest, and our Distressed Debt and Control Investing funds have historically found their best investment opportunities during downturns in the economy when credit is not as readily available.  Conversely, we tend to realize value from our investments in times of economic expansion, when opportunities to sell investments may be greater.  Thus, we depend on the cyclicality of the market in order to sustain our business and generate superior risk-adjusted returns over extended periods.  Any prolonged economic expansion or recession could have an adverse impact on certain of our funds and materially affect our ability to deliver superior investment returns for our clients or generate incentive or other income.. 29. Our failure to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest or inter-fund governance matters could damage our reputation and adversely affect our business.. As we have expanded the number and scope of our strategies and distribution channels, including advising registered mutual funds and business development companies, we increasingly confront potential conflicts of interest that we need to manage and resolve.  In our view, conflicts of interest may describe two types of potential situations:  (i) where the interests of the funds we manage (or the investors in such funds) may conflict with one another; and (ii) where our interests, as manager or adviser, may conflict with the interests of our funds or our clients.. Examples of potential inter-fund conflicts include: (i) the allocation of investment opportunities in situations where the investment focus of one or more of our funds overlaps (including certain instances in which funds registered under the Investment Company Act may be precluded from participating in certain opportunities as a result of regulatory restrictions applicable to companies with multiple types of funds with overlapping investment focuses); (ii) opportunities to co-invest directly alongside a fund that are offered to certain fund investors rather than to other Oaktree funds or other fund investors; (iii) investments by different funds at different levels of the capital structure of the same issuer; (iv) receipt of material, non-public information regarding an issuer by one strategy where another strategy does not wish to be restricted in trading the securities of that issuer; and (v) investments by a fund into a portfolio company held or controlled by another fund.  Over time we have developed general guidelines or a course of conduct to manage these potential inter-fund governance matters, including, recently establishing an inter-fund governance work group and standing committee composed of certain senior officers from our non-investment groups, including our legal and compliance departments.  We seek to resolve such governance issues in good faith and with a view to the best interests of all of our clients, but there can be no assurance that we will make the correct judgment or that our judgment will not be questioned or challenged.. In addition to the potential for conflict among our funds, we face the potential for conflict between us and our funds or clients.  These conflicts may include:  (i) personal trading by our personnel in the securities of issuers held by one or more of our funds; (ii) the allocation of investment opportunities among funds with different incentive fee structures, or where Oaktree personnel have invested more heavily in one fund than another; (iii) the use of subscription lines by our funds, which, among other things, may cause fund investors to indirectly bear interest expense when such investors would prefer to contribute capital and avoid the interest expense; and (iv) the determination of what constitutes fund-related expenses and the allocation of such expenses between our advised funds and us.  We maintain internal controls and various policies and procedures, including oversight, codes of ethics and conduct, compliance systems and communication tools, to identify, prevent, mitigate or resolve conflicts of interest that may arise.  Notwithstanding these efforts, it is possible that perceived or actual conflicts could give rise to investor dissatisfaction or litigation or regulatory enforcement actions.  Appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult, and any mistake could potentially create liability or damage our reputation.  Regulatory scrutiny of, or litigation in connection with, conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business in a number of ways, such as causing investors to redeem their capital (to the degree they have that right), making it harder for us to raise new funds and discouraging others from doing business with us.. The investment management business is intensely competitive.. The investment management business is intensely competitive, with competition based on a variety of factors, including investment performance, the quality of service provided to clients, brand recognition and business reputation.  Our investment management business competes for clients, personnel and investment opportunities with a large number of private equity funds, specialized investment funds, hedge funds, corporate buyers, traditional investment managers, commercial banks, investment banks, other investment managers and other financial institutions, and we expect that competition will increase.  Numerous factors serve to increase our competitive risks, some of which are outside of our control:. • a number of our competitors have more personnel and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do, and, in the case of some competitors, longer operating histories, more established relationships and/or greater experience;. • many of our competitors have raised, or are expected to raise, significant amounts of capital, and many of them have investment objectives similar to ours, which may create additional competition for investment opportunities and reduce the size and duration of pricing inefficiencies that we seek to exploit;. • some of our competitors (including strategic competitors) may have a lower cost of capital and access to funding sources that are not available to us, which may create competitive disadvantages for us with. 30. respect to our funds, particularly our funds that directly use leverage or rely on debt financing of their portfolio companies to generate superior investment returns;. • some of our competitors have higher risk tolerances, different risk assessments or lower return thresholds, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and to bid more aggressively than us for investments;. • our competitors may be able to achieve synergistic cost savings in respect of an investment that we cannot, which may provide them with a competitive advantage in bidding for an investment;. • there are relatively few barriers to entry impeding new investment funds, and the successful efforts of new entrants into our various lines of business, including major commercial and investment banks and other financial institutions, have resulted in increased competition;. • some investors may prefer to invest with an investment manager whose equity securities are not traded on a national securities exchange;. • some investors may prefer to pursue investments directly instead of investing through one of our funds; and. • other industry participants will from time to time seek to recruit our investment professionals and other employees away from us.. We may find it harder to raise funds, and we may lose investment opportunities in the future, if we do not match or improve on the fees, structures, products and terms offered by competitors to their fund clients.  Alternatively, we may experience decreased profitability, rates of return and increased risk of loss if we match or improve on the prices, structures, products and terms offered by competitors.  This competitive pressure could adversely affect our ability to make successful investments and limit our ability to raise future funds, either of which would adversely impact our business, revenues, results of operations and cash flow.. The increasing number of investment managers dedicated to our markets and the increasing amount of capital available to them have made it more difficult to identify market opportunities in which to invest, and this could lead to a decline in our returns on investments.. The asset management market has grown at a rapid pace during the last several years, leading to substantial growth in assets under management in our industry.  Our success in the past has largely been a result of our ability to identify and exploit non-mainstream markets with the potential for attractive returns.  Although investment managers worldwide have expanded the range of their investments in terms of transaction sizes, industries and geographical regions, there are a finite number of available investment opportunities at any given time.  Particularly in strong economic times, the most attractive opportunities generally are pursued by an increasing number of managers with increasing amounts to invest and, as a result, it is sometimes difficult for us to identify markets that are capable of generating attractive investment returns.  If we are unable to identify a sufficient number of attractive investment opportunities in the future, our returns will decline.  This development would have an adverse impact on our AUM and on our results of operations.. Poor performance of our funds would cause a decline in our revenues, net income and cash flow and could adversely affect our ability to raise capital for future funds.. When any of our funds perform poorly, either by incurring losses or underperforming benchmarks or our competitors, our investment record suffers.  Poor investment performance by our funds also adversely affects our incentive income and, all else being equal, may lead to a decline in our AUM, resulting in a reduction of our management fees for certain funds.  Moreover, in such circumstances, we may experience losses on our investments of our own capital. If a fund performs poorly, we will receive little or no incentive income with regard to the fund and little income or possibly losses from our own principal investment in the fund.  Poor performance of our funds could also make it more difficult for us to raise new capital.  Investors in our closed-end funds may decline to invest in future closed-end funds we raise, and investors in our open-end and evergreen funds may withdraw their investments in the funds (on specified withdrawal dates) as a result of poor performance.  Our investors and potential investors continually assess our funds' performance, both on a standalone basis and relative to market benchmarks and our competitors, and our ability to raise capital for existing and future funds and avoid excessive redemption levels depends on our funds' performance.. 31. We may not be able to maintain our current fee structure as a result of industry pressure from clients to reduce fees, which could have an adverse effect on our profit margins and results of operations.. We may not be able to maintain our current fee structure as a result of industry pressure from clients to reduce fees.  Although our investment management fees vary among and within asset classes, historically we have competed primarily on the basis of our performance and not on the level of our investment management fees relative to those of our competitors.  In recent years, however, there has been a general trend toward lower fees in the investment management industry, and we have in certain cases lowered the fees we charge in order to remain competitive.  Additionally, we have afforded, and reserve the right in our sole discretion to continue to afford, certain clients more favorable economic terms, including with respect to management fee rates and carried interest rates, in cases where such clients have committed capital to our funds or strategies that in the aggregate exceeds certain threshold amounts.  In order to maintain our fee structure in a competitive environment, we must be able to continue to provide clients with investment returns and service that incentivize our investors to pay our current fee rates.  We cannot provide any assurance that we will succeed in providing investment returns and service that will allow us to maintain our current fee structure.  Fee reductions on existing or new business could have an adverse effect on our profit margins and results of operations.  For more information about our fees please see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\". We have experienced significant growth in our operations outside the United States, which may place significant demands on our administrative, operational and financial resources.. In recent years, the scope and relative share of our non-U.S. operations have grown significantly.  As of December 31, 2017, we, our affiliates and affiliates of our funds had offices in 14 cities outside the United States, housing over one-fifth of our personnel.  This rapid growth has placed and may continue to place significant demands on our business infrastructure.  Pursuing investment opportunities outside the United States presents challenges not faced by U.S. investments, such as different legal, tax and regulatory regimes and currency fluctuations, which require additional resources to address.  In addition, in conducting business in these jurisdictions, we are often faced with the challenge of ensuring that our activities are consistent with U.S. or other laws with extraterritorial application, such as the USA PATRIOT Act and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\").  Moreover, actively pursuing international investment opportunities may require that we increase the size or number of our international offices.  Pursuing international clients means that we must comply with foreign laws governing the sale of interests in our funds, different investor reporting and information processes and other requirements.  As a result of these and other challenges, we are required to continuously develop our systems and infrastructure in response to the increasing complexity and sophistication of the investment management market and legal, accounting and regulatory situations.  Moreover, this growth has required, and will continue to require, us to incur significant additional expenses and to commit additional senior management and operational resources.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our expanding international operations effectively or that we will be able to continue to grow this part of our business, and any failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and control our expenses.. We may enter into new lines of business, make strategic investments or acquisitions or enter into joint ventures, each of which may result in additional risks and uncertainties for our business.. Our operating agreement permits us to enter into new lines of business, make future strategic investments or acquisitions and enter into joint ventures.  As we have in the past, and subject to market conditions, we may grow our business by increasing AUM in existing investment strategies, pursue new investment strategies, which may be similar or complementary to our existing strategies or be wholly new initiatives, or enter into strategic relationships, such as our current relationship with DoubleLine, or joint ventures.  In addition, opportunities may arise to acquire other alternative or traditional investment managers.. To the extent we make strategic investments or acquisitions, enter into strategic relationships or joint ventures or enter into new lines of business, we will face numerous risks and uncertainties, including risks associated with the required investment of capital and other resources and with combining or integrating operational and management systems and controls and managing potential conflicts.  Entry into certain lines of business may subject us to new laws and regulations with which we are not familiar, or from which we are currently exempt, and may lead to increased litigation and regulatory risk.  If a new business generates insufficient revenues, or produces investment losses, or if we are unable to efficiently manage our expanded operations, our results of operations will be adversely affected, and our reputation and business may be harmed.  In the case of joint ventures, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties in that we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control.. 32. We may not be successful in expanding into new investment strategies, markets and lines of business.. We actively consider the opportunistic expansion of our business, both geographically and into new investment strategies.  For example, in recent years we have focused on expanding into products for real estate, senior loans, listed equities, corporate debt, collateralized loan obligations, infrastructure investments, and direct lending.  Additionally, we have focused on broadening our distribution channels, including joint ventures and other strategic partnerships, subadvisory and retail and high net worth offerings.  For example, in 2014 we launched our first directly advised mutual fund registered under the Investment Company Act, and in 2017 we completed a transaction in which we became the new investment adviser to two BDCs: Oaktree Specialty Lending Corporation (NASDAQ: OCSC) and Oaktree Strategic Income Corporation (NASDAQ: OCSI).  These and other expansion efforts may result in adding personnel and growing investment teams.  We may not be successful in any such attempted expansion.  Attempts to expand our business involve a number of special risks, including some or all of the following:. • the diversion of management's attention from our existing business;. • the disruption of our existing business;. • potential conflicts of interest with existing products;. • entry into markets or lines of business in which we may have limited or no experience;. • exposure to new market risks;. • assumption of liabilities in acquired businesses;. • increased fees and expenses related to outside accounts, tax professionals, legal advisers, consultants and other service providers;. • increased costs and demands on our operational systems;. • potential increase in investor concentration; and. • increased risks associated with U.S. or foreign regulatory requirements or conducting operations in foreign jurisdictions.. Because we continuously evaluate potential new investment strategies, geographic markets and lines of business, we cannot identify all the risks we may face and the potential adverse consequences on us that may result from any attempted expansion.. We often pursue investment opportunities that involve business, regulatory, legal or other complexities.. We often pursue unusually complex investment opportunities involving substantial business, regulatory or legal complexity that would deter other investment managers.  Our tolerance for complexity presents risks, as such transactions can be more difficult, expensive and time-consuming to finance and execute; it can be more difficult to manage or realize value from the assets acquired in such transactions; and such transactions sometimes entail a higher level of regulatory scrutiny or a greater risk of contingent liabilities.  Any of these risks could harm the performance of our funds.. Extensive regulation in the United States and abroad affects our activities and creates the potential for significant liabilities and penalties that could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Potential regulatory action poses a significant risk to our reputation and our business.  Our business is subject to extensive regulation in the United States and in the other countries in which our investment activities occur, including periodic examinations, inquiries and investigations by governmental and self-regulatory organizations in the jurisdictions in which we operate around the world.  Many of these regulators, including U.S. federal and state and foreign government agencies and self-regulatory organizations, are empowered to impose fines, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including censure, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or expulsion of applicable licenses and memberships.  Even if an investigation did not result in a sanction, or the sanction imposed against us or our personnel were small in monetary amount, adverse publicity relating to the investigation could harm our reputation and cause us to lose existing investors or fail to gain new investors.. The SEC oversees the activities of our subsidiary Oaktree Capital Management, L.P. as a registered investment adviser under the Advisers Act, the activities of certain mutual funds registered under the Investment Company Act that are advised or sub-advised by us and the activities of our BDCs.  In particular, the SEC and its staff have focused on issues relevant to alternative asset management firms in recent years, including by forming. 33. specialized units devoted to examining such firms and, in certain cases, bringing enforcement actions against such firms, their principals and their employees.  Recently, the SEC has announced that the 2018 examination priorities for the Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations (\"OCIE\") include such items as cybersecurity compliance and controls and anti-money laundering controls, among others.  Additionally, the CFTC and the NFA oversee the activities of Oaktree Capital Management, L.P. as a registered commodity pool operator (\"CPO\") and commodity trading adviser (\"CTA\") under the Commodity Exchange Act.  The SEC and FINRA oversee the activities of our subsidiary OCM Investments, LLC as a registered broker-dealer.  In addition, we regularly rely on exemptions from various requirements of the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, the Investment Company Act, the Commodity Exchange Act and the U.S. Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (\"ERISA\").  These exemptions are sometimes highly complex and may in certain circumstances depend on compliance by third parties whom we do not control.  If for any reason these exemptions were to be revoked or challenged or otherwise become unavailable to us, we could be subject to regulatory action or third-party claims, and our business could be materially and adversely affected.. We have and may become subject to additional regulatory and compliance burdens as we expand our product offerings and investment platform.  In 2014, we launched our first directly advised mutual funds and in 2017 we became the new investment adviser to the BDCs, which are subject to the rules and regulations applicable to investment companies and business development companies, respectively, under the Investment Company Act.  We are required to invest our mutual funds' assets in accordance with limitations under the Investment Company Act and applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the \"Code\").  In addition, we are required to file periodic and annual reports with the SEC and may also be required to comply with the applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the \"Sarbanes-Oxley Act\").  Furthermore, advisers to mutual funds and business development companies have a fiduciary duty under the Investment Company Act not to charge excessive compensation, and the Investment Company Act grants shareholders of mutual funds and business development companies a direct private right of action against investment advisers to seek redress for alleged violations of this fiduciary duty.. Additionally, in 2015 an indirect subsidiary of ours registered as an alternative investment fund manager (\"AIFM\") in Luxembourg pursuant to the European Union Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive (the \"Directive\").  Such registration carries additional legal and compliance costs, as well as additional operating requirements that may also increase costs (for instance, the requirement that funds offered pursuant to the Directive retain an independent depository regulated by the EU).  These requirements could increase our compliance costs and create the potential for additional liabilities and penalties if we fail to comply with the applicable rules and regulations.. Each of the regulatory bodies with jurisdiction over us has regulatory powers dealing with many aspects of financial services, including the authority to grant, and in specific circumstances to cancel, permissions to carry on particular activities.  A failure to comply with the applicable obligations imposed by the Advisers Act and the Investment Company Act, including recordkeeping, custody, advertising and operating requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities, could result in investigations, sanctions and reputational damage.  Similarly, a failure to comply with the obligations imposed by the Commodity Exchange Act, including recordkeeping, reporting requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities, could also result in investigations, sanctions and reputational damage.  We are involved regularly in trading activities that implicate a broad number of U.S. securities law regimes, including laws governing trading on inside information, market manipulation and a broad number of technical trading requirements that implicate fundamental market regulation policies.  Violation of these laws could result in severe restrictions on our activities and damage to our reputation.. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could result in fines, censure, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of the registration of our relevant subsidiary as an investment adviser, CPO, CTA or registered broker-dealer.  The regulations to which our business is subject are designed primarily to protect investors in our funds and to ensure the integrity of the financial markets.  They are not designed to protect our Class A unitholders.  Even if a sanction imposed against us, one of our subsidiaries or our personnel by a regulator is for a small monetary amount, the adverse publicity related to the sanction could harm our reputation, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business in a number of ways, such as causing investors to redeem their capital (to the extent they have that right), making it harder for us to raise new funds and discouraging others from doing business with us.. Some of our funds invest in businesses that operate in highly regulated industries, including businesses that are regulated by the U.S. Federal Communications Commission, the U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, U.S. federal and state banking authorities and U.S. state gaming authorities.  The regulatory regimes. 34. to which such businesses are subject may, among other things, condition our funds' ability to invest in those businesses upon the satisfaction of applicable ownership restrictions or qualification requirements or, absent any applicable exemption, require us or our subsidiaries to comply with registration, reporting or other requirements.  Moreover, our failure to obtain or maintain any regulatory approvals necessary for our funds to invest in such industries may disqualify our funds from participating in certain investments or require our funds to divest themselves of certain assets.. We and our affiliates from time to time are required to report specified dealings or transactions involving Iran or other sanctioned individuals or entities.. The Iran Threat Reduction and Syrian Human Rights Act of 2012 (the \"ITRA\") expanded the scope of U.S. sanctions against Iran.  Section 219 of ITRA amended the Exchange Act to require public reporting companies to disclose in their annual or quarterly reports specified dealings or transactions the company or its affiliates engaged in during the previous reporting period involving Iran or other individuals and entities targeted by certain OFAC sanctions.  In January 2016, the United States entered into the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (the \"JCPOA\") with Iran and several other countries.  The JCPOA set up the framework for scaling back some of the U.S. sanctions towards Iran  -  the most notable change being the issuance of General License H which allows for foreign subsidiaries of U.S. companies to engage in dealings or transactions that are otherwise prohibited for their U.S. parent and which had previously been disallowed under the ITRA.  These changes, however, did not amend the SEC reporting requirements.  In some cases, the ITRA requires companies to disclose transactions even if they were permissible under U.S. law or were conducted outside of the United States by a foreign affiliate.  Should we be required to file such a disclosure, the SEC will post notice of the filing on its website and make a report to the U.S. President and certain U.S. Congressional committees.  The U.S. President must then undertake an investigation to determine whether sanctions should be imposed.  Disclosure of such activity, even if such activity is not subject to sanctions under applicable law, could harm our reputation and have a negative impact on our business.  Additionally, any imposition of sanctions on us or our affiliates could harm our reputation and have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Regulatory changes in the United States, regulatory compliance failures and the effects of negative publicity surrounding the financial industry in general could adversely affect our reputation, business and operations.. The business in which we operate both in and outside the United States may be subject to new or additional regulations from time to time.  We may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the SEC, the CFTC or other U.S. governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets.  We also may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations.  For example, in recent years, senior officials at the SEC have shown a willingness to pursue even violations that could be viewed as minor on the theory that publicly pursuing smaller matters will reduce the prevalence of larger matters.. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\"), enacted in 2010, has imposed significant changes on nearly every aspect of the U.S. financial services industry, including oversight and regulation of systemic market risk (including the power to liquidate certain institutions); authorization of the Federal Reserve to regulate nonbank institutions that are deemed systemically important; generally prohibiting insured depository institutions, insured depository institution holding companies and their subsidiaries and affiliates from conducting proprietary trading and investing in or sponsoring certain private equity funds and hedge funds; and imposing new registration, recordkeeping and reporting requirements on private fund investment advisers.  While we already have one subsidiary registered as an investment adviser subject to SEC examinations and as a CPO and CTA subject to CFTC regulation and another subsidiary registered as a broker-dealer subject to FINRA examinations, the imposition of any additional legal or regulatory requirements could make compliance more difficult and expensive, affect the manner in which we conduct our business and adversely affect our profitability.. The Dodd-Frank Act established a ten-member Financial Stability Oversight Council (the \"Council\"), an interagency body chaired by the Secretary of the Treasury, to identify and manage systemic risk in the financial system and improve interagency cooperation.  Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Council has the authority to review the activities of certain nonbank financial firms engaged in financial activities that are designated as \"systemically important,\" meaning, among other things, that the distress of the financial firm would threaten the stability of the U.S. economy.  While no asset managers have been designated to date, if we were to be designated, it would result in increased regulation of our business, including higher standards on capital, leverage, liquidity, risk management, credit exposure reporting and concentration limits, restrictions on acquisitions and annual stress tests by the Federal Reserve.. 35. On December 10, 2013, the Federal Reserve and other federal regulatory agencies issued final rules implementing a section of the Dodd-Frank Act that has become known as the \"Volcker Rule.\"  The Volcker Rule generally prohibits depository institution holding companies (including foreign banks with U.S. branches, agencies or commercial lending companies and insurance companies with U.S. depository institution subsidiaries), insured depository institutions and subsidiaries and affiliates of such entities from investing in or sponsoring private equity funds or hedge funds and from engaging in certain other proprietary activities, subject to various exemptions and exceptions.. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC adopted a rule requiring investment advisers registered or required to register with the SEC under the Advisers Act that advise one or more private funds and have at least $150 million in private fund AUM to periodically file reports on Form PF.  Under the rule, large private fund investment advisers, or advisers with at least $1.5 billion in AUM attributable to hedge funds and advisers with at least $2.0 billion in AUM attributable to private equity funds, are subject to more detailed and in certain cases more frequent reporting requirements.  As a result of this rule we file quarterly reports on Form PF, which has resulted in substantial administrative costs and requires a significant amount of time and attention to be spent by our personnel.. In addition, the CFTC repealed CFTC Regulation 4.13(a)(4), an exemption from registration as a CPO, on which we previously relied in operating our funds.  As a result, one of our subsidiaries, Oaktree Capital Management, L.P., has registered with the CFTC as a CPO and CTA with respect to the management of our funds.  In connection with such registrations, we also rely on the CFTC's Regulation 4.7 exemption, which provides a CPO and a CTA relief from certain of the Commodity Exchange Act's disclosure, reporting and recordkeeping requirements applicable to CPOs and CTAs, subject to certain conditions.  The operators of funds relying upon the exemption provided by CFTC Regulation 4.7, unlike a fully-registered CPO, will not be required to file any offering memorandum with the CFTC, and the CFTC will not pass upon the merits of participating in a pool or upon the adequacy or accuracy of an offering memorandum.  Nonetheless, CPOs and CTAs that qualify for relief under Regulation 4.7 remain subject to certain disclosure, reporting and recordkeeping requirements that could adversely affect our ability to implement our investment program, conduct our operations and/or achieve our objectives and subject us to certain additional costs, expenses and administrative burdens.. For some of our other funds that trade in commodity interests, we rely on the de minimis exemption provided by CFTC Regulation 4.13(a)(3).  For those funds that rely upon the exemption provided by CFTC Regulation 4.13(a)(3), unlike pools operated on a registered basis as a CPO by the CFTC, the operators of such pools are not required to provide prospective investors with a CFTC compliant disclosure document, nor are the operators required to provide participants with periodic account statements or certified annual reports that satisfy the requirements of CFTC rules applicable to registered CPOs.. However, these funds are subject to certain limits on their ability to use commodity futures (which include futures on broad-based securities indexes and interest rate futures) or options on commodity futures, engage in swaps transactions or make certain other investments (whether directly or indirectly through investments in other investment vehicles).  If our funds do not continue to claim the exclusion, they would likely become subject to registration and regulation as CPOs.  As a result, we may incur additional expenses as a result of the CFTC's registration and regulatory requirements.. Certain mutual funds advised by us also rely on the exemption provided by CFTC Regulation 4.5, which provides a CPO and a CTA relief from the obligation to provide prospective investors with a CFTC compliant disclosure document, periodic account statements or certified annual reports that satisfy the requirements of CFTC rules applicable to registered CPOs.  Our publicly-traded BDCs rely on a no-action letter for similar relief.. In the event we determine to cease or to limit investing in swaps or other assets rather than subject ourselves to all of the regulations of the CFTC, our ability to implement our investment objectives for our funds and to hedge risks associated with our funds' investments and operations may be materially impaired.  Furthermore, the CFTC has substantial enforcement power with respect to violations of the laws over which it has jurisdiction, including their anti-fraud and anti-manipulation provisions.  Among other things, the CFTC may suspend or revoke the registration of a person who fails to comply, prohibit such a person from trading or doing business with registered entities, impose civil money penalties, require restitution and seek fines or imprisonment for criminal violations.  Additionally, a private right of action exists against those who violate the laws over which the CFTC has jurisdiction or who willfully aid, abet, counsel, induce or procure a violation of those laws.  In the event our registration with the CFTC as a CPO or CTA is rescinded or restricted and we are unable to rely on an exemption from registration or we otherwise fail to comply with the regulatory requirements of these rules, we may be unable to use certain types of hedging instruments or may be subject to significant fines, penalties and other civil or governmental actions or proceedings, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 36. In addition, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC and other federal regulatory agencies have issued final rules requiring managers of CLOs to retain at least 5% of the credit risk in each CLO they manage (the \"U.S. Risk Retention Rules\").  Therefore, the U.S. Risk Retention Rules, which came fully into effect in December 2016, will require us to contribute a minimum level of capital to our CLOs.  The U.S. Risk Retention Rules could result in reduced CLO origination activity by us, result in increased investment by us in our CLOs and could adversely affect the market for CLOs more generally, which could adversely affect the performance and prospects for our CLO activity.  Certain industry participants have filed suit challenging certain aspects of the U.S. Risk Retention Rules.  On February 9, 2018, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia issued a decision which, if not appealed further, would curtail the application of certain aspects of the U.S. Risk Retention Rules with respect to certain CLO managers (including Oaktree).  We are currently evaluating the impact of that decision on our CLO origination activity.. It is difficult to determine the full extent of the impact on us of any new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed or whether any of the proposals will become law.  Any changes in the regulatory framework applicable to our business, including the changes described above, may impose additional costs on us, require the attention of our senior management or result in limitations on the manner in which we conduct our business.  Moreover, as calls for additional regulation have increased, there may be a related increase in regulatory investigations of the trading and other investment activities of alternative asset management funds, including our funds.  In addition, we may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations.  Compliance with any new laws or regulations could make our overall compliance activities more difficult and expensive, affect the manner in which we conduct our business and adversely affect our profitability.. Changes in law and government regulations may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The current regulatory environment in the United States may be impacted by future legislative developments, such as amendments to key provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act.  On January 20, 2017, Donald Trump became President of the United States.  President Trump's legislative agenda may include certain deregulatory measures for the U.S. financial services industry, including changes to the Volcker Rule, capital and risk retention requirements, the Council's authority and other aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act.  On February 3, 2017, President Trump signed an executive order calling for the administration to review U.S. financial laws and regulations in order to determine their consistency with a set of core principles identified in the order.. It remains unclear whether any particular legislative or regulatory proposals will be enacted or adopted.  In addition, it is not possible to determine the full extent of any impact on us or any of the portfolio companies of our funds of any such potential financial reform legislation, or whether any such proposal will become law.  Any changes in the regulatory framework applicable to our business or the businesses of the portfolio companies of our funds, including the changes described above, may impose additional costs, require the attention of our senior management or result in limitations on the manner in which business is conducted, or may ultimately have an adverse impact on the competitiveness of certain nonbank financial service providers vis-à-vis traditional banking organizations.. Regulatory changes in jurisdictions outside the United States could adversely affect our business.. Certain of our subsidiaries operate outside the United States.  In the United Kingdom, Oaktree Capital Management (UK) LLP is subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority.  In Hong Kong, Oaktree Capital (Hong Kong) Limited is subject to regulation by the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission.  In Singapore, Oaktree Capital Management Pte. Ltd. is subject to regulation by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.  In Japan, Oaktree Japan, GK is subject to regulation by the Kanto Local Finance Bureau.  In Luxembourg, Oaktree Capital Management (Lux) S.à r.l. is subject to regulation by the Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier.  Our other European and Asian operations and our investment activities worldwide are subject to a variety of regulatory regimes that vary by country. In addition, we regularly rely on exemptions from various requirements of the regulations of certain foreign countries in conducting our asset management and fundraising activities.. Each of the regulatory bodies with jurisdiction over us has regulatory powers dealing with many aspects of financial services, including the authority to grant, and in specific circumstances to cancel, permissions to carry on particular activities.  We are involved regularly in trading activities that implicate a broad number of foreign (as well as U.S.) securities law regimes, including laws governing trading on inside information and market manipulation and a broad number of technical trading requirements that implicate fundamental market regulation policies.  Additionally, we must comply with foreign laws governing the sale of interests in our funds and laws that govern other business activities. Violation of these laws could result in severe penalties, restrictions or prohibitions on our. 37. activities and damage to our reputation, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business in a number of ways, such as causing investors to redeem their capital (to the degree they have that right), making it harder for us to raise new funds and discouraging others from doing business with us.. Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive. The European Union Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive took effect on July 22, 2013.  The Directive applies to (a) AIFMs established in the European Union (the \"EU\") that manage EU or non-EU alternative investment funds (\"AIFs\"), (b) non-EU AIFMs that manage EU AIFs and (c) non-EU AIFMs that market their AIFs to professional investors within the EU.  Accordingly, individual EU member states have adopted rules and regulations implementing the Directive into domestic law, and member states are free to impose additional rules that are stricter than the minimum required by the Directive.. The Directive imposes detailed operating requirements on EU AIFMs managing AIFs.  EU AIFMs must comply with the requirements of the Directive and be appropriately authorized or have submitted an application for authorization.  EU AIFMs and non-EU AIFMs seeking to market an AIF within the EU must comply with the Directive's disclosure and transparency requirements and (in the case of non-EU AIFMs) jurisdiction specific private placement regimes (which have changed as a result of the Directive).. The full scope of the Directive may also be extended to non-EU AIFMs that wish to market an AIF within the EU pursuant to a pan-European marketing passport instead of under national private placement regimes.. The operating requirements imposed by the Directive include, among other things, rules relating to the remuneration of certain personnel, minimum regulatory capital requirements, restrictions on use of leverage, restrictions on early distributions relating to portfolio companies (so-called \"asset stripping\" rules), disclosure and reporting requirements to both investors and home state regulators, the independent valuation of an AIF's assets and the appointment of an independent depository to hold assets.  As a result, the Directive could have an adverse effect on our business by, among other things, increasing the regulatory burden and costs of doing business in or relating to EU member states, imposing extensive disclosure obligations on, and asset stripping rules with respect to, companies, if any, in which any of our fund(s) invest that are located in EU member states, significantly restricting marketing activities within the EU, potentially requiring our fund(s) to change their compensation structures for key personnel, thereby affecting our ability to recruit and retain these personnel, and potentially disadvantaging our funds as investors in private companies located in EU member states when compared to non-AIF/AIFM competitors that may not be subject to the requirements of the Directive, thereby potentially restricting our funds' ability to make investments in such companies.. The Directive could also limit our operating flexibility and our investment opportunities, as well as expose us and/or our funds to conflicting regulatory requirements in the United States (and elsewhere) and the EU.. Risk Retention and Due Diligence Requirements. Similar to the U.S. Risk Retention Rules, the EU has adopted rules that prevent certain investors from investing in EU CLOs that we originate unless, among other things, we retain at least a 5% ownership stake in the CLO and meet certain heightened due diligence requirements (the \"EU Risk Retention and Due Diligence Requirements\").  On September 30, 2015, the European Commission proposed new regulations that would recast the application of the EU Risk Retention and Due Diligence Requirements.  Following protracted negotiations, the European Commission, European Council of Ministers and European Parliament each announced on May 30, 2017 that a political agreement had been reached in principle regarding these new regulations.  The Securitization Regulation entered into force on January 17, 2018, but will apply on and from January 1, 2019 to securitizations the securities of which are issued on or after such date.  These new regulations could result in reduced EU CLO activity by us and have a negative impact on the price and liquidity of EU CLOs and could adversely affect our EU CLO activity.  Failure to comply with one or more of the requirements may result in various penalties including the imposition of a punitive capital charge on the notes issued by our EU CLOs.. Solvency II. Solvency II is an EU directive that sets out stronger capital adequacy and risk management requirements for European insurers and reinsurers and, in particular, dictates how much capital such firms must hold against their liabilities.  Solvency II came into effect on January 1, 2016.  Solvency II imposes, among other things, substantially greater quantitative and qualitative capital requirements for insurers and reinsurers as well as other supervisory and disclosure requirements.  We are not subject to Solvency II; however, many of our European insurer or reinsurer fund investors will be subject to this directive, as applied under applicable domestic law.  Solvency II may impact insurers' and reinsurers' investment decisions and their asset allocations.  In addition, insurers and reinsurers will. 38. be subject to more onerous data collation and reporting requirements.  As a result, Solvency II could in the future have an adverse indirect effect on our business by, among other things, restricting the ability of European insurers and reinsurers to invest in our funds and imposing on us extensive disclosure and reporting obligations for those insurers and reinsurers that do invest in our funds.. OECD. Changes in tax laws by foreign jurisdictions could arise as a result of BEPS projects being undertaken by the OECD (each as defined below).  These contemplated changes, if finalized and adopted by countries, could increase uncertainty faced by us, our business and our investors, change our business model or increase the cost of acquiring businesses.  The timing or impact of these proposals is unclear at this point.  There are also continual changes to tax laws, regulations and interpretations regularly which could impact our structures or the returns to investors.. MiFID II. The existing MiFID regime regulating the provision of investment services and activities throughout the EU has been substantially amended by MiFID II, effective January 3, 2018.  MiFID II is designed to amend the functioning of financial markets in light of the financial crisis and to strengthen investor protection.  MiFID II has extended the MiFID requirements in a number of areas, including new inducements and research unbundling rules, enhanced transaction reporting and post-trade transparency requirements, formal telephone taping and communication recording requirements, and new best execution rules.  MiFID II has imposed additional compliance requirements on our European operations, increasing the cost of compliance and requiring additional management time and resources.. GDPR. With effect from May 25, 2018, the European General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\") will amend data protection rules for individuals within the EU.  Its primary purpose is to give individuals within the EU control of their personal data and to simplify the regulatory environment for international businesses by unifying data protection regulation within the EU.  GDPR imposes more stringent rules and greater penalties for non-compliance, which both could have an adverse effect on our business.  For example, a failure to comply with the GDPR could result in fines of up to EUR 20 million or 4% of annual global revenues, whichever is higher.. SEC rules barring so-called \"bad actors\" from relying on Rule 506 of Regulation D in private placements could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Rules 501 and 506 of Regulation D under the Securities Act prohibit issuers deemed to be \"bad actors\" from relying on the exemptions available under Rule 506 of Regulation D (\"Rule 506\") in connection with private placements (the \"disqualification rule\").  Specifically, an issuer will be precluded from conducting offerings that rely on the exemption from registration under the Securities Act provided by Rule 506 (\"Rule 506 offerings\") if a \"covered person\" of the issuer has been the subject of a \"disqualifying event\" (each as defined below).  \"Covered persons\" include, among others, the issuer, affiliated issuers, any investment manager or solicitor of the issuer, any director, executive officer or other officer participating in the offering of the issuer, any general partner or managing member of the foregoing entities, any promoter of the issuer and any beneficial owner of 20% or more of the issuer's outstanding voting equity securities, calculated on the basis of voting power.  A \"disqualifying event\" includes, among other things, certain (1) criminal convictions and court injunctions and restraining orders issued in connection with the purchase or sale of a security or false filings with the SEC; (2) final orders from the CFTC, federal banking agencies and certain other regulators that bar a person from associating with a regulated entity or engaging in the business of securities, insurance or banking or that are based on certain fraudulent conduct; (3) SEC disciplinary orders relating to investment advisers, brokers, dealers and their associated persons; (4) SEC cease-and-desist orders relating to violations of certain anti-fraud provisions and registration requirements of the federal securities laws; (5) suspensions or expulsions from membership in a self-regulatory organization (\"SRO\") or from association with an SRO member; and (6) U.S. Postal Service false representation orders.. If any Oaktree covered person is subject to a disqualifying event, one or more of our funds could lose the ability to raise capital in a Rule 506 offering for a significant period of time.  Most of our funds rely on Rule 506 to raise capital from investors during their fundraising periods.  If one or more of our funds were to lose the ability to rely on the Rule 506 exemption because an Oaktree covered person has been the subject of a disqualifying event, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. 39. Failure to comply with \"pay to play\" regulations implemented by the SEC and certain states, and changes to the \"pay to play\" regulatory regimes, could adversely affect our business.. In recent years, the SEC and several states have initiated investigations alleging that certain private equity firms and hedge funds or agents acting on their behalf have paid money to current or former government officials or their associates in exchange for improperly soliciting contracts with state pension funds.  The SEC has also initiated a similar investigation into contracts awarded by sovereign wealth funds.  Rule 206(4)-5 under the Advisers Act addresses \"pay to play\" practices by investment advisers involving campaign contributions and other payments to government officials able to exert influence on potential U.S. state and local government entity clients.  Among other restrictions, the rule prohibits investment advisers from providing advisory services for compensation to a government entity for two years, subject to very limited exceptions, after the investment adviser, its senior executives or its personnel involved in soliciting investments from government entities make contributions to certain candidates and officials in a position to influence the hiring of an investment adviser by such government entity.  The rule does not require any showing that a donation was made with intent to exert influence.  Any donation that exceeds the limits set forth in Rule 206(4)-5 may lead to an investment adviser being required to forgo compensation from applicable government entities for two years; to the extent such fees have already been paid, the investment adviser may be required to forfeit the already-received compensation.  Advisers are required to implement compliance policies designed, among other matters, to track contributions by certain of the adviser's employees and engagements of third parties that solicit government entities and to keep certain records in order to enable the SEC to determine compliance with the rule.  Additionally, California law requires placement agents (including in certain cases employees of investment managers) who solicit funds from California state retirement systems, such as the California Public Employees' Retirement System and the California State Teachers' Retirement System, to register as lobbyists, thereby becoming subject to increased reporting requirements and prohibited from receiving contingent compensation for soliciting investments from California state retirement systems.  New York has adopted similar rules.  Such investigations may require the attention of our senior management and may result in fines if any of our funds are deemed to have violated any laws or regulations, thereby imposing additional expenses on us.  Any failure by us or by our senior executives or personnel involved in soliciting investment from government entities to comply with these rules could cause us to lose compensation for our advisory services or expose us to significant penalties and reputational damage.. The derivatives that we or our funds use may subject us to increased risk of loss and may adversely affect our results of operations.. From time to time, we and our funds enter into various derivative instruments including, but not limited to, swaps, options, forwards, futures and options on futures, in order to manage various risks such as risks related to interest rates, foreign-currency exchange rates or exposure to certain equity markets, or for any purposes consistent with our or our funds' investment objectives and strategies.  Generally, a derivative is a financial contract, the value of which depends upon, or is derived from, the value of an underlying asset, reference rate, or index, and may relate to individual debt or equity instruments, interest rates, currencies or currency exchange rates, commodities, related indices and other assets.  In the future, we and our funds may enter into additional derivative instruments as part of risk management or in accordance with our investment strategies.  Our hedging activity varies in scope based on the level of interest rates or foreign-exchange rate, the type of portfolio investments held and other changing market conditions.. While the judicious use of derivative instruments can be beneficial, such instruments involve risks different from, and, in certain cases, greater than, the risks presented by more traditional investments.  Our derivative instruments used for hedging purposes may fail to protect us or our funds from the risks we sought to hedge.  In addition, derivatives used for hedging or non-hedging purposes may present various additional market and counterparty-related risks including, but not limited to:. • derivative instruments can be expensive, particularly during periods of volatility in interest rates, foreign currency and the prices of reference instruments;. • an imperfect or variable degree of correlation between price movements of the available derivative instruments and the underlying asset, reference rate or index sought to be hedged may prevent us from achieving the intended hedging effect or expose us to the risk of loss;. • the gain (or loss) on such instruments may not fully offset the corresponding loss (or gain) in the value of the underlying assets in our portfolio;. • the duration of a hedge may be significantly different than the duration of the underlying liability or asset;. 40. • typically, investing in a derivative instrument requires the deposit or payment of an initial amount much smaller than the notional or nominal exposure amount from such derivative instrument, potentially magnifying the loss if the relevant market moves against us or our funds;. • certain derivatives may be illiquid, making them unable to be sold at the desired time or price, so that in volatile markets we may not be able to close out a position without incurring a loss;. • the credit quality of the counterparty of the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs or makes economically unattractive our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction;. • the counterparty owing money in a hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay, see \" - Derivative instruments often involve counterparty risks and costs\";. • the cost of using certain derivative instruments may increase during a period of increased volatility, for instance, with respect to interest rate hedges, during periods of rising and volatile interest rates and, with respect to foreign-currency hedges, during periods of volatile foreign currencies;. • the value of derivative instruments depends upon the price of the underlying asset, reference rate or index, which may be subject to volatility;. • actual or implied daily limits on price fluctuations and speculative position limits on the exchanges or over-the-counter markets in which we may conduct our transactions in derivative instruments may prevent prompt liquidation of positions, subjecting us to the potential of greater losses;. • significant disparities may exist between \"bid\" and \"asked\" prices for derivative instruments that are traded over-the-counter and not on an exchange;. • the derivative instruments used by us may be difficult to value or involve the risk of mispricing or improper valuation, especially where the markets for such derivative instruments are illiquid and/or such derivatives involve complex structures, or where there is imperfect correlation between the value of the derivative instrument and the underlying asset, reference rate or index;. • derivative contracts could require us to fund cash payments in the future under certain circumstances, including an event of default or other early termination event, or the decision by a counterparty to request margin in the form of securities or other forms of collateral under the terms of the derivative contract and/or under applicable laws; and. • compared with exchange-traded instruments, the market for OTC derivatives is less liquid and the derivative instruments used by us and our funds may be difficult to value or involve the risk of mispricing or improper valuation, especially where the markets for such derivative instruments are illiquid and/or such derivatives involve complex structures, or where there is imperfect correlation between the value of a derivative instrument and the underlying asset, reference rate or index.. While we or our funds may enter into various derivative instruments for risk management and other purposes in accordance with our investment strategies, the foregoing risks may cause us to have poorer overall investment performance than if we had not entered into any such derivative instruments.  Any derivative transactions we or our funds enter into may adversely affect our results of operations, which in turn could adversely affect our cash available for distribution to holders of our units.. Derivative instruments often involve counterparty risks and costs.. We and our funds will be subject to credit risk with respect to counterparties to derivative contracts and other instruments entered into directly by us or our funds or held by special purpose or structured vehicles in which we or our funds may invest from time to time.  Counterparty risk is the risk that the other party in a derivative transaction will not fulfill its contractual obligation.  Changes in the credit quality of the entities that serve as our or our funds' counterparties in the derivative transactions will affect the value of our derivative instruments.  By entering into derivatives, we or our funds assume the risk that these counterparties could experience financial or other hardships that could jeopardize their continued ability to perform their contractual obligations under the derivative transactions.  Furthermore, concentrations of derivatives with any particular counterparty would subject us or our funds to an additional degree of risk with respect to defaults by such counterparty.. If a counterparty becomes bankrupt or otherwise fails to perform its obligations under a derivative contract with us or our funds due to financial or other difficulties, we or our funds may experience significant delays in obtaining any recovery under the derivative contract in a dissolution, assignment for the benefit of creditors, liquidation, winding-up, bankruptcy or other analogous proceedings.  In addition, in the event of the insolvency of a counterparty to a derivative transaction, the derivative transaction would typically be terminated at its fair market. 41. value.  If we or our funds are owed this fair market value upon the termination of the derivative transaction and such claims are uncollateralized or otherwise unsecured, we or our funds will be treated as general creditors of such counterparty, and will have limited claim with respect to the underlying assets.  We or our funds may obtain only a limited recovery or may obtain no recovery at all in such circumstances.. Some, but not all, derivatives are required by applicable laws to be cleared, in which case a central clearing counterparty (\"CCP\") stands between each buyer and seller and effectively guarantees performance of each derivative contract, to the extent of its available resources for such purpose.  As a result, the counterparty risk is now shifted from the parties to the CCP.  Even in such case, there can be no assurance that a clearing house, or its members, will ensure the satisfaction of the clearing house's obligations to our funds.  Uncleared derivatives have no protection from any CCP; each party bears the risk that its direct counterparty will default.. Risks relating to uncleared derivatives.. Our and our funds' counterparty credit exposure will be greatly mitigated if we receive collateral from our counterparties.  The Prudential Regulators (as defined below) and the CFTC have adopted margin requirements for non-cleared swaps that apply to swap entities that are prudentially regulated by the Prudential Regulators and other swap entities regulated by the CFTC.  In addition, the Prudential Regulators' margin rules apply to non-cleared security-based swaps entered into by entities regulated by the Prudential Regulators. The SEC has proposed but not yet adopted final margin rules for security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants that are not regulated by the Prudential Regulators.  While neither our funds nor any entity through which we execute swaps will be directly subject to these margin requirements, our funds will be indirectly impacted by the margin requirements that could be applicable to the counterparties.  Please see \"Regulatory changes could occur and may adversely affect our or our funds' ability to pursue hedging strategies and/or increase the costs of implementing such strategies\".. To the extent that our swap counterparty collects initial margin from our funds on uncleared swaps and security-based swaps, our funds may request that such counterparty segregate all such initial margin posted by us at an independent, third party custodian or at an affiliate of the counterparty that serves as a custodian.  If our funds do not request segregation of such initial margin, the custodian or counterparty may commingle such assets or collateral with the custodian's or counterparty's own assets.  In addition, even where our funds request segregation of such initial margin, the custodian or counterparty may fail to segregate such assets or collateral properly.  In either case, in the event of the bankruptcy or insolvency of any custodian or counterparty, our funds' assets and collateral may be subject to the conflicting claims of the creditors of the relevant custodian or counterparty, and our funds may be exposed to the risk of a court treating us as a general unsecured creditor of such custodian or counterparty, rather than as the owner of such assets or collateral.. Risks relating to cleared derivatives.. The risks arising from non-cleared derivative transactions differ materially from those entailed in transactions that are cleared through CCPs such as U.S.-registered derivatives clearing organizations.  As of the date hereof, the CFTC requires that certain interest-rate swaps and index credit-default swaps be cleared through a CCP (unless an exception or exemption applies), and the CFTC may expand the types of swaps (e.g., certain foreign-currency and commodity swaps) subject to mandatory clearing.  While the SEC has adopted rules establishing a framework for determining which security-based swaps will be subject to mandatory clearing, as of the date hereof, no such clearing determination has been issued.. Where we and our funds enter into swaps subject to mandatory clearing, we may be required to clear such swaps at a CCP through a futures commission merchant (\"FCM\") acting as clearing broker.  We and our funds will have to post initial and variation margin to CCPs through FCMs or broker-dealers (in the U.S.) or other clearing brokers (outside the U.S.), and for swaps cleared at CCPs that are U.S.-registered derivatives clearing organizations, such margin will be held by such CCP and FCMs in segregated accounts under the CFTC rules.  Such segregation is intended to protect the margin of swap clearing customers from the claims of other creditors of a CCP or FCM.  Furthermore, the CFTC rules implement the so-called \"legally segregated, operationally commingled\" (\"LSOC\") model for the segregation of swap clearing customer collateral on a customer-by-customer basis, which is intended to protect each customer from the default of other customers of the FCM.  Under the LSOC model of segregation, any margin posted by a swap clearing customer must be segregated from the FCM's own property.  However, the FCM may hold such customer collateral in a single account for operational convenience.  If the FCM then fails to make a margin call to a CCP due to the defaults of one or more swap clearing customers, the CCP will only have access to the collateral of the defaulting swap clearing customers (and not the non-defaulting customers) to cover any losses from such defaults.  Such segregation, however, will not protect a clearing customer such as our funds from any operational or fraud risk of a CCP or FCM with respect to the margin posted to the CCP. 42. or FCM.  In addition, the margin posted to a non-U.S. CCP through a non-U.S. clearing broker may not even be segregated from the property of such CCP and/or clearing broker.  As of the date hereof, the SEC has promulgated no final rules for the treatment and protection of customer property, including margin, held by CCPs and broker-dealers.. In addition, where our funds enter into certain swaps subject to mandatory clearing, we may be required to execute such swaps on a registered designated contract market or swap execution facility (collectively, \"SEFs\").  As of the date hereof, the CFTC requires that certain interest-rate swaps and index credit-default swaps be executed on an SEF, and SEFs may self-certify additional types of interest-rate and index credit-default swaps as subject to this requirement.  The SEC has not yet adopted registration rules for security-based SEFs or a mandatory trade execution requirement for security-based swaps.  In addition, certain foreign jurisdictions may impose clearing and trade execution requirements that could apply to our funds' transactions with non-U.S. entities.  While our funds will benefit from reduced counterparty credit and operations risk and pricing transparency resulting from these requirements, we will incur additional costs in trading these swaps.  While our funds will attempt to execute, clear and settle these swaps through entities we believe to be sound, there can be no assurance that a failure by such an entity will not cause a loss to us.. Illiquidity and credit risk of derivative instruments.. We and our funds may enter into derivative transactions involving privately negotiated off-exchange derivative instruments, including OTC credit-default swaps, total-return swaps and other derivative instruments.  There can be no assurance that a liquid secondary market will exist for any particular derivative instrument at any particular time, and we or our funds may not be able to close out a position without incurring a significant amount of loss.  OTC derivative instruments, unlike exchange-traded instruments, are not guaranteed by an exchange or clearinghouse, and thus are generally subject to greater credit risks.  In addition, we and our funds may not be able to convince our counterparties to consent to an early termination of an OTC derivative contract or may not be able to enter into an offsetting transaction to effectively unwind the transaction.  Such OTC derivative contracts generally are not assignable except as permitted contractually or as otherwise agreed between the parties, and, in the absence of such contractual obligation or agreement, a counterparty typically has no obligation to permit assignments.  Moreover, even if the counterparty agrees to early termination of one or more OTC derivatives at any time, doing so may subject us or our funds to certain early termination charges.. Regulatory changes could occur and may adversely affect our or our funds' ability to pursue hedging strategies and/or increase the costs of implementing such strategies.. The enforceability of agreements governing hedging transactions may depend on compliance with applicable statutory and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements.  New or amended regulations may be imposed by the CFTC, the SEC, the Federal Reserve, the European Commission or other financial regulators, other governmental or intergovernmental regulatory authorities, or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets, and could adversely affect us and our funds.  In particular, these agencies are empowered to promulgate a variety of new rules pursuant to recently enacted financial reform legislation in the United States.  We and our funds also may be adversely affected by changes in the enforcement or interpretation of statutes and rules by these regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations.. In addition, the securities and futures markets are subject to comprehensive statutes and regulations.  For example, the Dodd-Frank Act could have an adverse effect on our funds' ability to use derivative instruments.  The Dodd-Frank Act is designed to impose stringent regulation on the over-the-counter derivatives market in an attempt to increase transparency and accountability and provides for, among other things, clearing, execution, margin, reporting, recordkeeping, business conduct, documentation, disclosure, position limit, minimum net capital and registration requirements.  Although the CFTC has released final rules relating to clearing, execution reporting, risk management, compliance, position limit, anti-fraud, consumer protection, portfolio reconciliation, documentation, recordkeeping, business conduct and margin and registration requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act, many of the provisions are subject to further final rulemaking, and thus the Dodd-Frank Act's ultimate impact remains unclear.. New regulations could, among other things, restrict our funds' ability to engage in derivatives transactions (for example, by making certain types of derivatives transactions no longer available to our funds) and/or make them less effective.  In particular, new margin requirements and capital charges, even when not directly applicable to our funds, may increase the pricing of derivatives transacted by our funds.  New exchange trading and trade reporting requirements and position limits may lead to changes in the liquidity of derivative transactions, or higher pricing or reduced liquidity in the derivatives markets, or the reduction of arbitrage opportunities for our funds.  Limits or restrictions applicable to the counterparties with which our funds engage in derivative transactions could. 43. also limit the ability of our funds in using derivative instruments, affect the pricing or other factors relating to these instruments or may change the availability of certain investments.  As a result, our funds may be unable to effectively carry out their investment strategies.. For entities designated by the CFTC or the SEC as swap dealers (\"SDs\"), security-based swap dealers (\"SBSDs\"), major swap participants or major security-based swap participants, the Dodd-Frank Act imposes substantial regulatory, reporting and compliance requirements.  Based on our current use of derivatives, we are not required to register as an SD, SBSD, major swap participant or security-based major swap participant at this time.  If we are later designated as an SD, SBSD, major swap participant or major security-based swap participant, our business will be subject to increased regulatory requirements, including registration requirements, additional recordkeeping and reporting obligations, external and internal business conduct standards, position limits monitoring, and capital and margin thresholds, which will in turn increase our compliance cost.. In December 2012, the CFTC issued a final rule requiring certain interest-rate swaps and index-based credit-default swaps to be centrally cleared, which is applicable to all swap counterparties not eligible for certain narrowly-defined exemption or exceptions.  In December 2016, the CFTC further expanded the categories of interest rate swaps subject to mandatory clearing.  Such clearing requirements may affect our and our funds' ability to negotiate individualized terms and/or may increase the costs of entering into such swap transactions (for example, by increasing collateral or capital requirements).  Clearing mandates issued by regulators with respect to other types of swaps could have additional impact on our ability to use derivative instruments as part of our hedging or investment strategies.. Furthermore, on December 15, 2015, the CFTC published a final rule governing margin requirements for uncleared swaps entered into by registered SDs and major swap participants who are not supervised by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Farm Credit Administration and the Federal Housing Finance Agency (collectively, the \"Prudential Regulators\"), referred to as \"covered swap entities.\"  The final rule generally requires covered swap entities, subject to certain thresholds and exemptions, to collect and post margin in respect of uncleared swap transactions with other covered swap entities and financial end-users.  In particular, the final rule requires covered swap entities and financial end-users having \"material swaps exposure,\" defined as an average aggregate daily notional amount of uncleared swaps exceeding $8 billion as calculated from June, July and August of the previous calendar year, to collect and/or post (as applicable) a minimum amount of \"initial margin\" in respect of each uncleared swap, subject to a phase-in schedule until September 1, 2020.  In addition, the final rule requires covered swap entities entering into uncleared swaps with other covered swap entities or financial end-users, regardless of swaps exposure, to post and/or collect (as applicable) \"variation margin\" in reflection of changes in the mark-to-market value of an uncleared swap since the swap was executed or the last time such margin was exchanged.  These newly adopted rules on margin requirements for uncleared swaps could limit our or our funds' available liquidity and use of derivatives, which could have an adverse impact on us or our funds.. The SEC has also indicated that it may adopt new policies on the use of derivatives by registered investment companies.  Such policies could affect the nature and extent of derivatives use by us or certain of our funds.  On August 31, 2011, the SEC issued a concept release to seek public comment on a wide range of issues raised by the use of derivatives by investment companies.  Then, on December 11, 2015, the SEC proposed new rules to govern the use of derivatives by registered investment companies and business development companies (\"registered funds\").  It is possible that such regulations, once adopted, could limit our funds' use of derivatives, which could have an adverse impact on us or our funds.. In addition to U.S. laws and regulations relating to derivatives, certain non - U.S. regulatory authorities, such as those in the EU, have passed or proposed, or may propose in the future, legislation similar to that imposed by the Dodd - Frank Act.  The regulatory changes in the EU would impact a broad range of counterparties, both outside and within the EU, and are expected to potentially increase the cost of transacting derivatives for us and our funds (particularly with banks and other dealers directly subject to such regulations).. Additionally, in May 2016, the International Swaps and Derivatives Association published the ISDA Resolution Stay Jurisdictional Modular Protocol (\"ISDA JMP\"), which is aimed at achieving the same policy goals as the ISDA 2015 Universal Resolution Stay Protocol published in November 2015 with respect to the orderly resolution of systemically important financial institutions.  The ISDA JMP will enable parties to amend the terms of protocol covered agreements to aid compliance with certain regulatory requirements in various jurisdictions that, in general, require entities subject to those regulatory requirements to obtain from their counterparties a contractual recognition of the application of stays on or overrides of certain termination rights under the home-country special resolution regime (\"SRR\") of such regulated entity (\"Stay Regulations\").  We have adhered to the ISDA JMP, and. 44. are bound by its terms.  Under the terms of the ISDA JMP, the right of funds and accounts we advise could be substantially and negatively impacted in the event of insolvency or default by one of our financial counterparties.. We are subject to substantial litigation risks and may face significant liabilities and damage to our professional reputation as a result.. In recent years, the volume of claims and amount of damages claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against investment managers have been increasing.  We make investment decisions on behalf of our clients that could result in substantial losses.  This may subject us to the risk of legal liabilities or actions alleging negligence, breach of fiduciary duty, breach of contract or other causes of action.  Heightened standards of care or additional fiduciary duties may apply in certain of our managed accounts or other advisory contracts.  To the extent we enter into agreements with clients containing such terms or applicable law mandates a heightened standard of care or duties, we could, for example, be liable to certain clients for acts of simple negligence or breach of such duties.. Further, we may be subject to litigation arising from investor dissatisfaction with the performance of our funds or from third-party allegations that we improperly exercised control or influence over portfolio investments or that we are liable for actions or inactions taken by portfolio companies that such third parties argue we control.  In addition, we and our affiliates that are the investment managers and general partners of our funds, our funds themselves and those of our employees who are our, our subsidiaries' or the funds' officers and directors are each exposed to the risks of litigation specific to the funds' investment activities and portfolio companies and, in cases where our funds own controlling interests in public companies, to the risk of shareholder litigation by the public companies' other shareholders.  Moreover, we are exposed to risks of litigation or investigation by investors and regulators relating to our having engaged, or our funds having engaged, in transactions that presented conflicts of interest that were not properly addressed.  Please see also \" - Extensive regulation in the United States and abroad affects our activities and creates the potential for significant liabilities and penalties that could adversely affect our business and results of operations.\". Substantial legal liability could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business.  We depend, to a large extent, on our business relationships and our reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services to attract and retain investors.  As a result, allegations of improper conduct asserted by private litigants or regulators, regardless of whether the ultimate outcome is favorable or unfavorable to us, as well as negative publicity and press speculation about us, our investment activities or the investment industry in general, whether or not valid, may harm our reputation, which may be more damaging to our business than to other types of businesses.. Employee misconduct, which is difficult to detect and deter, could harm us by impairing our ability to attract and retain clients and subject us to significant legal liability and reputational harm.  Fraud and other deceptive practices or other misconduct at the portfolio companies of our funds could similarly subject us to liability and reputational damage and also harm our performance.. There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by individuals in the financial services industry, and there is a risk that our employees could engage in misconduct that adversely affects our business.  We are subject to a number of obligations and standards arising from our investment management business and our authority over the assets we manage.  The violation of any of these obligations or standards by any of our employees or advisors could adversely affect our clients and us.  Our business often requires that we deal with confidential matters of great significance to companies in which we may invest or to our investors and advisory clients.  If our employees improperly use or disclose confidential information, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and suffer serious harm to our reputation, financial position and current and future business relationships.  It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases.  If our employees engage in misconduct, or if they are accused of misconduct, our business and our reputation could be adversely affected.. In recent years, the U.S. Department of Justice and the SEC have devoted greater resources to enforcement of the FCPA.  In addition, the United Kingdom has significantly expanded the reach of its anti-bribery laws.  While we have developed and implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance by us and our personnel with the FCPA, such policies and procedures may not be effective in all instances to prevent violations.  Any determination that we or our employees have violated the FCPA, UK anti-bribery laws or other applicable anti-corruption laws could subject us to, among other things, civil and criminal penalties, material fines, profit disgorgement, injunctions on future conduct, securities litigation and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 45. In addition, we may also be adversely affected if there is misconduct by personnel of portfolio companies in which our funds invest.  For example, financial fraud or other deceptive practices at such portfolio companies, or failures by personnel at such portfolio companies to comply with anti-bribery, trade sanctions or other legal and regulatory requirements could adversely affect our business and reputation.  Such misconduct might undermine our due diligence efforts with respect to such companies and could negatively affect the valuation of our funds' investments.  In addition, we may face increased risk of such misconduct to the extent our funds' investment in non-U.S. markets, particularly emerging markets, increases.. Failure to maintain the security of our information and technology networks, including personally identifiable and client information, intellectual property and proprietary business information could have a material adverse effect on us.. Security breaches and other disruptions of our information and technology networks could compromise our information and intellectual property and expose us to liability, reputational harm and significant regulatory investigation and remediation costs, which could cause material harm to our business and financial results.  In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including our proprietary business information and intellectual property, and personally identifiable information of our employees and our clients, in our data centers and on our networks.  The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information are critical to our operations.  Although we take various measures and have made, and will continue to make, significant investments to ensure the integrity of our systems and to safeguard against such failures or security breaches, there can be no assurance that these measures and investments will provide adequate protection.  Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by third parties or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions.  Certain of our funds invest in strategic assets having a national or regional profile or in infrastructure assets, the nature of which could expose them to a greater risk of being subject to a terrorist attack or security breach.  In addition, we and our employees may be the target of fraudulent emails or other targeted attempts to gain unauthorized access to proprietary or sensitive information.. There has been an increase in the frequency and sophistication of the data security threats we face, with attacks ranging from those common to businesses generally to those that are more advanced and persistent, which may target us because, as an investment management firm, we hold confidential and other price-sensitive information about the portfolio companies of our funds and their potential investments.  As a result, we may face a heightened risk of a security breach or disruption with respect to sensitive information resulting from an attack by computer hackers, foreign governments or cyber terrorists.  If successful, these types of attacks on our network or other systems could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, due to, among other things, the loss of investor or proprietary data, interruptions or delays in our business and damage to our reputation.  Although we are not currently aware of any cyberattacks or other incidents that, individually or in the aggregate, have materially affected, or would reasonably be expected to materially affect, our operations or financial condition, there can be no assurance that the various procedures and controls we utilize to mitigate these threats will be sufficient to prevent disruptions to our systems, especially because the cyberattack techniques used change frequently and are not recognized until launched, the full scope of a cyberattack may not be realized until an investigation has been performed and cyberattacks can originate from a wide variety of sources.  The costs related to data security threats or disruptions may not be fully insured or indemnified by other means.  In addition, data security has become a top priority for regulators around the world.  For example, the SEC announced in 2018 that one of the examination priorities for the OCIE is investment firms' data security procedures and controls, including testing the implementation of those controls.. A significant actual or potential theft, loss, corruption, exposure, fraudulent use or misuse of client, employee or other personally identifiable or proprietary business data, whether by third parties or as a result of employee malfeasance or otherwise, non-compliance with our contractual or other legal obligations regarding such data or intellectual property or a violation of our privacy and security policies with respect to such data could result in significant remediation and other costs, fines, litigation or regulatory actions against us.  Such an event could additionally disrupt our operations and the services we provide to clients, damage our reputation, result in a loss of a competitive advantage, impact our ability to provide timely and accurate financial data, and cause a loss of confidence in our services and financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, revenues, competitive position and investor confidence.. Additionally, the GDPR will be applicable in all European Union member states beginning May 25, 2018.  This regulation adds a broad array of requirements for handling personal data of individuals located in the EU and the transportation of that data from the EU and could impose a fine of up to 4% of global annual revenue for violations.. 46. Interruption of our information technology, communications systems or data services could disrupt our business, result in losses and/or limit our growth.. We rely heavily on our financial, accounting, communicationsand other data processing systems.  If our systems do not operate properly, are disabled or are compromised, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our business, liability to our funds, regulatory intervention or reputational damage.  Our information technology and communications systems are vulnerable to damage or disruption from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, system malfunctions, natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes and floods, acts of war or terrorism, employee errors or malfeasance, computer viruses, cyber-attacks, or other events which are beyond our control.. We depend on our headquarters in Los Angeles, where a substantial portion of our personnel are located, for the continued operation of our business.  An earthquake or other disaster or a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business, including a disruption involving electronic communications or other services used by us or third parties with whom we conduct business, or directly affecting our headquarters, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to continue to operate our business without interruption. Insurance and other safeguards might only partially reimburse us for our losses, if at all.. In addition, we rely on third - party service providers for certain aspects of our business, including software vendors for portfolio management and accounting software, outside financial institutions for back office processing and custody of securities and third - party broker - dealers for the execution of trades.  An interruption or deterioration in the performance of these third parties or failures of their information systems and technology could cause system interruption, delays, loss, corruption or exposure of critical data or intellectual property and impair the quality of the funds' operations, which could impact our reputation and hence adversely affect our business.  These risks could increase as vendors increasingly offer cloud-based software services rather than software services that can be operated within our own data centers.  Our portfolio companies also rely on data processing systems and the secure processing, storage and transmission of information, including payment and health information.  A disruption or compromise of these systems could have a material adverse effect on the value of these businesses.  Such an event may have adverse consequences on our investments or assets of the same type, or may require portfolio companies to increase preventative security measures or expand insurance coverage.. Any such interruption or deterioration in our operations could result in substantial recovery and remediation costs and liability to our clients, business partners and other third parties.  While we have implemented disaster recovery plans and backup systems to lessen the risk of any material adverse impact, our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient to mitigate the harm and cannot account for all eventualities, and a catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our data, our critical business or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct our business operations, and as a result, our future operating results could be materially adversely affected.. The vote by the United Kingdom to exit the European Union could adversely affect us.. On June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom (the \"U.K.\") held a referendum on whether to remain a member state of the EU in which a majority of voters approved an exit from the EU, commonly referred to as \"Brexit.\"  The referendum was non-binding; however, as a result of the referendum, the U.K. government has begun negotiating the terms of the U.K. withdrawal from the EU.  Under the process for withdrawing from the EU contemplated in the Treaty on European Union, the U.K. will remain a member state until a withdrawal agreement is entered into or, if earlier (and no extension is agreed), two years following notification of the U.K.'s intention to withdraw from the EU. The U.K. formally notified the European Council on March 29, 2017 of its intention to withdraw from the EU.. The announcement of the referendum result caused significant volatility in global stock markets and currency exchange fluctuations, including a sharp decline in the value of the British pound sterling and the equity prices for U.K.-dependent companies.  The long-term effects of Brexit are expected to be far-reaching and will depend on, among other things, any agreements the U.K. makes to retain access to EU markets either during a transitional period or more permanently.  Brexit and the perceptions as to its impact may adversely affect business activity and economic conditions in Europe and globally, and could continue to contribute to instability in global financial and foreign-exchange markets.  Consequently, the investments of our funds denominated in British pounds sterling are subject to increased risks related to these exchange-rate fluctuations, which could produce market declines that could negatively impact our AUM.  In addition, the announcement of Brexit and the expected withdrawal of the U.K. from the EU may also adversely affect the values of the investments held by our funds in the U.K. and EU, and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could suffer as a result.. Brexit could also have the effect of disrupting the free movement of goods, services and persons between the U.K. and the EU.  Oaktree currently utilizes passport rights under certain EU directives to provide services and perform activities in the U.K. and in other EU member states, such as the MiFID II and the Alternative Investment. 47. Fund Managers Directive.  Any disruption to the free movement of goods, services and persons between the U.K. and the EU may adversely impact Oaktree's activities in the U.K. and in other EU member states.. In addition, Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. determines which EU laws to replace or replicate.  Any such new laws and regulations in the U.K. may be difficult and/or costly to implement and could adversely impact our ability to raise capital from investors in the U.K. and the EU, which could materially reduce our revenue, earnings and cash flow and adversely affect our financial prospects and condition.  Furthermore, as a result of Brexit, other EU member countries may seek to conduct referenda with respect to their continuing membership with the EU.  Given these possibilities and others we may not anticipate, at this time, it is difficult to predict how the U.K. withdrawal from the EU will be implemented and what the economic, tax, fiscal, legal, regulatory and other implications will be for the asset management industry and the broader European and global financial markets generally and for our business and our funds and their investments specifically.  However, any of these effects of Brexit, and others we cannot anticipate, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial prospects and condition, and cash flow.. Risks Relating to Our Funds. Our results of operations are dependent on the performance of our funds.  Poor fund performance will result in reduced revenues.  Poor performance of our funds will also make it difficult for us to retain and attract investors to our funds, to retain and attract qualified professionals and to grow our business.  The performance of each fund we manage is subject to some or all of the following risks.. The historical returns attributable to our funds should not be considered indicative of the future results of our funds or of our future results or of any returns expected on an investment in our Class A units.. The historical returns attributable to our funds should not be considered indicative of the future results of our funds, nor are they directly linked to returns on our Class A units.  Therefore, Class A unitholders should not conclude that positive performance of our funds will necessarily result in positive returns on an investment in our Class A units.  However, poor performance of the funds we manage will cause a decline in our revenues and would therefore have a negative effect on our operating results and returns on our Class A units.. Moreover, with respect to the historical returns of our funds:. • we may create new funds in the future that reflect a different asset mix and different investment strategies, as well as a varied geographic and industry exposure as compared to our present funds, and any such new funds could have different returns from our existing or previous funds;. • the rates of return of our closed-end funds reflect unrealized gains as of the applicable measurement date that may never be realized, which may result in a lower internal rate of return and ultimate return for some closed-end funds from those presented in this annual report;. • our funds' returns have previously benefited from investment opportunities and general market conditions that may not repeat themselves, and there can be no assurance that our current or future funds will be able to avail themselves of profitable investment opportunities;. • many of our funds' historical investments were made over a long period of time and over the course of various market and macroeconomic cycles, and the circumstances under which our current or future funds may make future investments may differ significantly from those conditions prevailing in the past;. • newly-established funds may generate lower returns during the period in which they initially deploy their capital;. • our funds may not be able to successfully identify, make and realize upon any particular investment or generate returns for their investors; and. • any material increase or decrease in the size of our funds could result in materially different rates of returns.. The future internal rate of return for any current or future fund may vary considerably from the historical internal rate of return generated by any particular fund, or for our funds as a whole.  In addition, future returns will be affected by the applicable risks described elsewhere in this annual report, including risks of the industries and businesses in which a particular fund invests.. 48. Investors in some of our funds may be unable to fulfill their capital commitment obligations, and such failure could have an adverse effect on the affected funds.. Investors in our closed-end funds make capital commitments that we are entitled to call from those investors at any time during certain prescribed periods.  We depend on investors fulfilling and honoring their commitments when we call capital from them in order for our closed-end funds to consummate investments and otherwise pay their obligations when due.  Any investor that does not fund a capital call is subject to having a meaningful amount of its existing capital account forfeited in that fund.  However, if investors were to fail to honor a significant amount of capital calls for any particular fund or funds, the affected funds' ability to make new or follow-on investments, and to otherwise satisfy their liabilities when due, could be materially and adversely affected.. Certain of our funds invest in relatively high-risk, illiquid, non-publicly traded assets, and we may fail to realize any profits from these activities ever or for a considerable period of time.. Our closed-end funds often invest in securities that are not publicly traded.  In many cases, our funds may be prohibited by contract or by applicable securities laws from selling these securities for a period of time.  Our funds generally cannot sell these securities publicly unless either their sale is registered under applicable securities laws or an exemption from registration is available.  The ability of many of our funds, particularly our control investing funds, to dispose of investments is heavily dependent on the public capital markets.  For example, the ability to realize any value from an investment may depend upon the ability to complete an initial public offering of the portfolio company in which the investment is held.  Even if securities are publicly traded, large holdings of securities often can be sold only over a substantial length of time, exposing investment returns to risks of downward movement in market prices.  Moreover, because the investment strategy of many of our funds, particularly our control investing funds, often entails our having representation on our funds' public portfolio company boards, our funds may be restricted in their ability to effect such sales during certain time periods.  Accordingly, under certain conditions, our investment funds may be forced to either sell securities at lower prices than they had expected to realize or defer  -  potentially for a considerable period of time  -  sales that they had planned to make.  We have made and expect to continue to make significant principal investments in our current and future funds.  Contributing capital to these funds is risky, and we may lose some or the entire principal amount of our investments.. Our funds make distressed debt investments that involve significant risks and potential additional liabilities.. Certain of our funds invest in obligors and issuers with weak financial conditions, poor operating results, substantial financing needs, negative net worth or significant competitive issues and/or securities that are illiquid, distressed or have other high-risk features.  These funds also invest in obligors and issuers that are involved in bankruptcy or reorganization proceedings.  In these situations, it may be difficult to obtain full information as to the exact financial and operating conditions of these obligors and issuers. Furthermore, some of our funds' distressed debt investments may not be widely traded or may have no recognized market.  Depending on the specific fund's investment profile, a fund's exposure to the investments may be substantial in relation to the market for those investments, and the acquired assets are likely to be illiquid and difficult to transfer.  As a result, it may take a number of years for the market value of the investments to ultimately reflect their intrinsic value as we perceive it.. A central strategy of our distressed debt funds, for example, is to anticipate the occurrence of certain corporate events, such as debt or equity offerings, restructurings, reorganizations, mergers, takeover offers and other transactions.  If the relevant corporate event that we anticipate is delayed, changed or never completed, the market price and value of the applicable fund's investment could decline sharply.. In addition, these investments could subject a fund to certain potential additional liabilities that may exceed the value of its original investment.  Under certain circumstances, payments or distributions on certain investments may be reclaimed if any such payment or distribution is later determined to have been a fraudulent conveyance, a preferential payment or similar transaction under applicable bankruptcy and insolvency laws.  In addition, under certain circumstances, a lender that has inappropriately exercised control of the management and policies of a debtor may have its claims subordinated or disallowed or may be found liable for damages suffered by parties as a result of such actions.  In the case where the investment in securities of troubled companies is made in connection with an attempt to influence a restructuring proposal or plan of reorganization in bankruptcy, the fund may become involved in substantial litigation.. 49. Certain of our funds are subject to the fiduciary responsibility and prohibited transaction provisions of ERISA and the Code, and our business could be adversely affected if certain of our other funds fail to satisfy an exemption under the \"plan assets\" regulation under ERISA.. Some of our funds are subject to the fiduciary responsibility and prohibited transaction provisions of ERISA and Section 4975 of the Code.  For example, we currently manage some of our funds as \"plan assets\" under ERISA.  With respect to these funds, this results in the application of the fiduciary responsibility standards of ERISA to investments made by such funds, including the requirement of investment prudence and diversification, and the possibility that certain transactions that we enter into, or may have entered into, on behalf of these funds, in the ordinary course of business, might constitute or result in non-exempt prohibited transactions under Section 406 of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Code.  A non-exempt prohibited transaction, in addition to imposing potential liability upon fiduciaries of a plan subject to Title I of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Code, may also result in the imposition of an excise tax under the Code upon a \"party in interest\" (as defined in ERISA) or \"disqualified person\" (as defined in the Code) with whom we engaged in the transaction.  Some of our other funds currently qualify as venture capital operating companies (\"VCOCs\"), as defined in the regulations (the \"Plan Asset Regulations\") promulgated under ERISA by the U.S. Department of Labor, or rely on other exceptions under ERISA and therefore are not subject to the fiduciary requirements of ERISA with respect to their assets.  However, if these funds fail to satisfy the requirements to qualify as a VCOC for any reason, including an amendment of the Plan Asset Regulations, or another exception under ERISA, such failure could materially interfere with our activities in relation to these funds or expose us to risks related to our failure to comply with the requirements.. Certain of our funds may be subject to risks arising from potential control group liability.. Under ERISA, upon the termination of a tax - qualified single employer defined benefit pension plan, the sponsoring employer and all members of its \"controlled group\" will be jointly and severally liable for 100% of the plan's unfunded benefit liabilities whether or not the controlled group members have ever maintained or participated in the plan.  In addition, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (the \"PBGC\") may assert a lien with respect to such liability against any member of the controlled group on up to 30% of the collective net worth of all members of the controlled group.  Similarly, in the event a participating employer partially or completely withdraws from a multiemployer (union) defined benefit pension plan, any withdrawal liability incurred under ERISA will represent a joint and several liability of the withdrawing employer and each member of its controlled group.. A \"controlled group\" includes all \"trades or businesses\" with at least 80% or greater common ownership.  This common ownership test is broadly applied to include both \"parent - subsidiary groups\" and \"brother - sister groups\" applying complex exclusion and constructive ownership rules.  However, regardless of the percentage ownership that any of our funds holds in one or more of its portfolio companies, such fund itself cannot be considered part of an ERISA controlled group unless that fund is considered to be a \"trade or business\".. While there are a number of cases that have held that managing investments is not a \"trade or business\" for tax purposes, in 2007 the PBGC Appeals Board ruled that a private equity fund was a \"trade or business\" for ERISA controlled group liability purposes and at least one Federal Circuit Court has similarly concluded that a private equity fund could be a trade or business for these purposes based upon a number of factors including the fund's level of involvement in the management of its portfolio companies and the nature of any management fee arrangements.. If any of our funds are determined to be a trade or business for purposes of ERISA, it is possible, depending upon the structure of the investment by such fund or any of their affiliates and other co - investors in a portfolio company and their respective ownership interests in the portfolio company, that any tax - qualified single employer defined benefit pension plan liabilities or multiemployer plan withdrawal liabilities incurred by the portfolio company could result in liability being incurred by any of our funds, with a resulting need for additional capital contributions, the appropriation of such fund's assets to satisfy such pension liabilities and/or the imposition of a lien by the PBGC on certain fund assets.  Moreover, regardless of whether or not any of our funds were determined to be a trade or business for purposes of ERISA, a court might hold that one of our fund's portfolio companies could become jointly and severally liable for another portfolio company's unfunded pension liabilities pursuant to the ERISA \"controlled group\" rules, depending upon the relevant investment structures and ownership interests as noted above.. Poor investment performance during periods of adverse market conditions may result in relatively high levels of investor redemptions, which can exacerbate the liquidity pressures on the affected funds, force the sale of assets at distressed prices or reduce the funds' returns.. Poor investment performance during periods of adverse market conditions, together with investors' increased need for liquidity given the state of the credit markets, can prompt relatively high levels of investor redemptions at. 50. times when many funds may not have sufficient liquidity to satisfy some or all of their investor redemption requests.  During times when market conditions are deteriorating, many funds may face additional redemption requests and/or compulsory investor withdrawals or redemptions, which will exacerbate the liquidity pressures on the affected funds. If such funds cannot satisfy their current and future redemption requests, they may be forced to sell assets at distressed prices or cease operations.  Various measures taken by funds to improve their liquidity profiles (such as the implementation of \"gates\" or the suspension of redemptions) that reduce the amounts that would otherwise be paid out in response to redemption requests may have the effect of incentivizing investors to \"gross up\" or increase the size of the future redemption requests they make, thereby exacerbating the cycle of redemptions.  The liquidity issues for such funds are often further exacerbated by their fee structures, as a decrease in NAV decreases their management fees.. Certain of our funds have, or may in the future have, agreements that create debt or debt-like obligations with one or more counterparties.  Such agreements in many instances contain covenants or \"triggers\" that require the fund to maintain a certain level of NAV over certain testing periods or to post additional margin on a daily basis when prices of our funds' derivative contracts move against the fund.  In addition, there may be guidelines in total return swap facilities or margin loans that require reference obligations to be above a certain price level.  Decreases in such funds' NAV (whether due to performance, redemptions or both) that breach such covenants, the failure to make any margin calls or meaningful decreases in the price of the underlying reference loan or security may result in defaults under such agreements and such defaults could permit the counterparties to take various actions that would be adverse to the funds, including terminating the financing arrangements, increasing the amount of margin or collateral that the funds are required to post (so-called \"supercollateralization\" requirements) or decreasing the aggregate amount of leverage that such counterparty is willing to provide to our funds.  In particular, many such covenants to which our funds are party are designed to protect against sudden and pronounced drops in NAV over specified periods, so if our open-end or evergreen funds were to receive larger-than-anticipated redemption requests during a period of poor performance, such covenants may be breached.  Defaults under any such covenants would likely result in the affected funds being forced to sell financed assets (which sales would likely occur in suboptimal or distressed market conditions) or being forced to restructure a swap facility with more onerous terms or otherwise raise cash by reducing other leverage, which would reduce the funds' returns and our opportunities to produce incentive and investment income from the affected funds.. Valuation methodologies for certain assets in our funds can be subject to significant subjectivity, and the values of assets established pursuant to the methodologies may never be realized.. Our funds make investments for which market quotations are not readily available, and thus the process by which we value such investments involves inherent uncertainties.  We are required by GAAP to make good faith determinations as to the fair value of these investments on a quarterly basis in connection with the preparation of our funds' financial statements.. There is no single method for determining fair value in good faith.  The types of factors that may be considered when determining the fair value of an investment in a particular company include acquisition price of the investment, discounted cash flow valuations, historical and projected operational and financial results for the company, the strengths and weaknesses of the company relative to its comparable companies, industry trends, general economic and market conditions, information with respect to offers for the investment, the size of the investment (and any associated control) and other factors deemed relevant.  Fair values may also be assessed based on the enterprise value of a company established using a market multiple approach that is based on a specific financial measure (such as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (\"EBITDA\"), adjusted EBITDA, free cash flow, net income, book value or net asset value) or, in some cases, a cost basis or a discounted cash flow or liquidation analysis.  Because valuations, and in particular valuations of investments for which market quotations are not readily available, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have resulted if a ready market had existed.  Even if market quotations are available for our investments, the quotations may not reflect the value that we would actually be able to realize because of various factors, including the possible illiquidity associated with a large ownership position, subsequent illiquidity in the market for a company's securities, future market price volatility or the potential for a future loss in market value based on poor industry conditions or the market's view of overall company and management performance.. Because there is significant uncertainty in the valuation of, or in the stability of the value of, illiquid investments, the fair values of such investments as reflected in a fund's NAV do not necessarily reflect the prices that would actually be obtained by us on behalf of the fund when such investments are sold.  Sales at values significantly lower than the values at which investments have previously been reflected in a fund's NAV may result in losses for the applicable fund, a decline in management fees and the loss of incentive income that may have. 51. been accrued by the applicable fund.  Changes in values attributed to investments from quarter to quarter may result in volatility in the NAV and results of operations that we report.  Also, a situation where a fund's NAV turns out to be materially different from the NAV previously reported for the fund could cause investors to lose confidence in us, which could in turn result in difficulty in raising additional funds or investors requesting redemptions from certain of our funds.  The SEC has highlighted valuation practices as one of its areas of focus in investment adviser examinations and has instituted enforcement actions against private equity fund advisers for misleading investors about valuation.. Our funds make investments in companies that are based outside the United States, which exposes us to additional risks not typically associated with investing in companies that are based in the United States.. Many of our funds invest a portion of their assets in the equity, debt, loans or other securities of issuers located outside the United States, while certain of our funds invest substantially all of their assets in these types of securities.  Investments in non-U.S. securities involve certain factors not typically associated with investing in U.S. securities, including risks relating to:. • our funds' abilities to exchange local currencies for U.S. dollars and other currency exchange matters, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates and costs associated with conversion of investment principal and income from one currency into another;. • controls on, and changes in controls on, foreign investment and limitations on repatriation of invested capital;. • less developed or less efficient financial markets than exist in the United States, which may lead to price volatility and relative illiquidity;. • the absence of uniform accounting, auditing and financial reporting standards, practices and disclosure requirements and less government supervision and regulation;. • differences in legal and regulatory environments, particularly with respect to bankruptcy and reorganization, less developed corporate laws regarding fiduciary duties and the protection of investors and less reliable judicial systems to enforce contracts and applicable law;. • less publicly available information in respect of companies in non-U.S. markets;. • heightened exposure to corruption risk;. • certain economic and political risks, including potential exchange control regulations and restrictions on our non-U.S. investments and repatriation of capital, potential political, economic or social instability, the possibility of nationalization or expropriation or confiscatory taxation and adverse economic and political developments; and. • the possible imposition of non-U.S. taxes or withholding on income and gains recognized with respect to the securities.. There can be no assurance that adverse developments with respect to these risks will not adversely affect our funds that invest in securities of non-U.S. issuers.. Certain of our funds and most of our separate account agreements contain provisions that allow investors to withdraw their capital.. Most of our separate account agreements generally can be terminated by our separate account clients upon notice of 30 days or less.  Similarly, our commingled open-end funds permit the withdrawal of capital by our investors during certain open periods that generally occur on the first business day of each calendar month.  Our active evergreen funds have withdrawal rights that, depending on the specific fund, can be exercised in intervals typically ranging from three months to three years.  Any significant number of terminations or withdrawals could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We have made and expect to continue to make significant investments in our current and future funds, and we may lose money on some or all of our investments.. Since our inception in 1995, we have increased the minimum level of our principal investments in our closed-end and evergreen funds from 0.2% of the fund's aggregate committed capital to 1.0% starting with funds that held their initial closings in late 1998, to 2.0% starting with funds that held their initial closings in mid-2004.  Subsequent to the 2007 Private Offering, we decided to further increase principal investments made collectively by Oaktree and its affiliates in such funds that have initial closings after May 2007 to the greater of 2.5% of the funds' aggregate committed capital or $20 million.  Although we are not limited in the amount we choose to invest, in 2009 we. 52. decided that we will generally not invest more than $100 million in any one fund.  We expect to continue to make significant principal investments in our funds and may choose to increase the percentage amount we invest at any time.  Further, from time to time we make loans or otherwise extend credit or guarantees to our funds.  Contributing capital, making other investments or extending credit to these funds is risky, and we may lose some or all of our investments.  Any such loss could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our funds make investments in companies that we do not control.. Investments by many of our funds include debt instruments and equity securities of companies that we do not control.  These instruments and securities may be acquired by our funds through trading activities or through purchases of securities from the issuer.  In addition, our control investing funds may acquire minority equity interests and may also dispose of a portion of their majority equity investments in portfolio companies over time in a manner that results in the funds retaining a minority investment.  Those investments will be subject to the risk that the company in which the investment is made may make business, financial or management decisions with which we do not agree or that the majority stakeholders or the management of the company may take risks or otherwise act in a manner that does not serve our interests.  In addition, the company in which the investment is made may be subject to complex regulatory requirements, and instances of non-compliance by them may subject us to reputational harm or have other adverse consequences on our business.  If any of the foregoing were to occur, the values of the investments held by our funds could decrease and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could suffer as a result.. Investments by our funds will in many cases rank junior to investments made by others.. In many cases, the companies in which our funds invest have indebtedness or equity securities, or may be permitted to incur indebtedness or to issue equity securities, that rank senior to our investment.  By their terms, these instruments may provide that their holders are entitled to receive payments of dividends, interest or principal on or before the dates on which payments are to be made in respect of our investment.  Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a company in which we hold an investment, holders of securities ranking senior to our investment would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before distributions could be made in respect of our investment.  After repaying senior security holders, the company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying amounts owed in respect of our investment.  To the extent that any assets remain, holders of claims that rank equally with our investment would be entitled to share on an equal and ratable basis in distributions that are made out of those assets.  Also, during periods of financial distress or following an insolvency, the ability of our funds to influence a company's affairs and to take actions to protect their investment may be substantially less than that of those holding senior interests.. The due diligence process that we undertake in connection with investments by some of our funds may not reveal all facts that may be relevant in connection with an investment.. Before making investments in companies that we expect to control, we undertake a due diligence investigation of the target company.  In conducting these investigations, we may be required to evaluate important and complex business, financial, tax, accounting, environmental and legal issues.  Outside consultants, legal advisers, accountants and investment banks are often involved in the due diligence process in varying degrees depending on the type of investment.  Nevertheless, the due diligence investigation that we carry out with respect to an investment opportunity may not reveal or highlight all relevant facts that may be necessary or helpful in evaluating the investment opportunity.  No due diligence investigation can provide certainty as to the matters covered.  In addition, instances of bribery, fraud, accounting irregularities and other improper, illegal or corrupt practices are by their nature difficult to detect.  Moreover, a due diligence investigation will not necessarily result in the investment being successful.  The nature of our due diligence investigation in a particular instance depends on the size and type of investment being considered, our familiarity with the relevant industry, company and its management and other relevant factors.. Market values of publicly traded securities that are held as investments may be volatile.. The market prices of publicly traded securities held by some of our funds may be volatile and are likely to fluctuate due to a number of factors beyond our control, including actual or anticipated changes in the profitability of the issuers of such securities, general economic, social or political developments, changes in industry conditions, changes in government regulation, shortfalls in operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts, inflation and rapid fluctuations in inflation rates, the general state of the securities markets and other material events, such as significant management changes, financings, refinancings, securities issuances, acquisitions and dispositions.  Changes in the values of these investments may adversely affect our investment performance and our results of operations.. 53. Volatility in the structured credit, leveraged loan and high yield bond markets may adversely affect our funds' investments.. To the extent that companies in which our funds invest participate in the structured credit, leveraged loan and high yield bond markets, the results of their operations may suffer if such markets experience dislocations, illiquidity and volatility.  In addition, to the extent that such marketplace events occur, this may have an adverse impact on the availability of credit to businesses generally and could lead to an overall weakening of the U.S. and global economies.  Any economic downturn could adversely affect the financial resources of our funds' investments (in particular those investments that depend on credit from third parties or that otherwise participate in the credit markets) and their ability to make principal and interest payments on, or refinance, outstanding debt when due. In the event of such defaults, our funds could lose both invested capital in, and anticipated profits from, the affected portfolio companies.. We enter into a significant number of side letter agreements with limited partners of certain of our funds, and the terms of these agreements could expose the general partners of the funds to additional risks and liabilities.. We regularly enter into side letter agreements with particular limited partners in the course of raising our funds.  These side letters typically afford such limited partners assurance with respect to particular aspects of the operation of the fund.  Given that these assurances often elaborate upon the provisions of the relevant fund's partnership agreement, our affiliates could be exposed to additional risks, liabilities and obligations not contemplated in our funds' partnership agreements.. Our funds may invest in companies that are highly leveraged, a fact that may increase the risk of loss associated with the investments.. Our funds may invest in companies whose capital structures involve significant leverage.  These investments are inherently more sensitive to declines in revenues and to increases in expenses and interest rates.  The leveraged capital structure of these companies places significant burdens on their cash flows and increases the exposure of our funds to adverse economic factors such as downturns in the economy or deterioration in the condition of the portfolio company or its industry.  Additionally, the securities acquired by our funds may be the most junior in what could be a complex capital structure and thus subject us to the greatest risk of loss in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of one of these companies.. The use of leverage by our funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation and cash flow.. Some of our funds use leverage (including through credit facilities, swaps and other derivatives) as part of their respective investment programs and may borrow a substantial amount of capital.  The use of leverage poses a significant degree of risk and can enhance the magnitude of a significant loss in the value of the investment portfolio.  To the extent that any fund leverages its capital structure, it is subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that its cash flows will be insufficient to meet principal and interest payments, which could significantly reduce or even eliminate the value of such fund's investments.  In addition, the interest expense and other costs incurred in connection with such leverage may not be recovered by the appreciation in the value of any associated securities or bank debt and will be lost  -  and the timing and magnitude of such losses may be accelerated or exacerbated  -  in the event of a decline in the market value of such securities or bank debt.  In addition, such funds may be subject to margin calls or acceleration in the event of a decline in the value of the posted collateral.  To meet liquidity needs as a result of margin calls or acceleration, we may elect to invest additional capital into or loan money to such funds.  Any such investment or loan would be subject to the risk of loss.  In addition, if we were to elect to enforce our rights against any fund with respect to a loan to such fund, we may damage our relationships with our investors and have difficulty raising additional capital.  Any of the foregoing circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. Changes in the debt financing markets and higher interest rates may negatively impact the ability of our funds and their portfolio companies to obtain attractive financing for their investments or refinance existing debt and may increase the cost of such financing if it is obtained, leading to lower-yielding investments and potentially decreasing our incentive income and investment income.. The markets for debt financing are subject to retrenchment, resulting in more restrictive covenants or other more onerous terms (including posting additional collateral) in order to provide financing, and in some cases lenders may refuse to provide any financing that would have been readily obtained under different credit conditions.  In addition, higher interest rates generally impact the investment management industry by making it harder to obtain financing for new investments, refinance existing investment or liquidate debt investments, which can lead to. 54. reduced investment returns and missed investment opportunities.  Since the most recent recession, the U.S. Federal Reserve has taken actions which have resulted in low interest rates prevailing in the marketplace for a historically long period of time.  In December 2016, the U.S. Federal Reserve raised its benchmark interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point.  In 2017, the U.S. Federal Reserve again raised its benchmark interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point in each of March, June and December.  The U.S. Federal Reserve has indicated that it may raise interest rates further in 2018, and any such increase may materially and negatively affect us.. If our funds are unable to obtain committed debt financing or can only obtain debt at an increased interest rate or on other less advantageous terms, such funds' investment activities may be restricted and their profits may be lower than they would otherwise have achieved, either of which could lead to a decrease in the incentive and investment income earned by us.  Similarly, the portfolio companies owned by our funds regularly utilize the corporate debt markets to obtain efficient financing for their operations.  To the extent that credit markets render such financing difficult or more expensive to obtain, the operating performance of those portfolio companies and therefore the investment returns on our funds may be negatively impacted.  In addition, to the extent that the then-current markets make it difficult or impossible to refinance debt or extend maturities on their outstanding debt, the relevant portfolio company may be unable to repay such debt at maturity and may be forced to sell assets, undergo a recapitalization or seek bankruptcy protection.  Any of the foregoing circumstances could impair the value of our investment in those portfolio companies and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. Our funds may face risks relating to undiversified investments.. We cannot give assurance as to the degree of diversification, if any, that will be achieved in any fund investments.  Difficult market conditions or slowdowns affecting a particular asset class, geographic region or other category of investment could have a significant adverse impact on a fund if its investments are concentrated in that area, which would result in lower investment returns.  This lack of diversification may expose a fund to losses disproportionate to market declines in general if there are disproportionately greater adverse price movements in the particular investments.  To the extent a fund holds investments concentrated in a particular issuer, security, asset class or geographic region, such fund may be more susceptible than a more widely diversified investment partnership to the negative consequences of a single corporate, economic, political or regulatory event.  Accordingly, a lack of diversification on the part of a fund could adversely affect a fund's performance and, as a result, our financial condition and results of operations.. Risk management activities may adversely affect the returns on our funds' investments and expose our funds to other risks.. When managing our exposure to market risks, we may (on our own behalf or on behalf of our funds) from time to time use forward contracts, options, swaps, caps, collars and floors or pursue other strategies or use other forms of derivative instruments to limit our exposure to changes in the relative values of investments that may result from market developments, including, but not limited to, changes in prevailing interest rates, currency exchange rates and commodity prices.  The success of any hedging or other derivative transactions generally will depend on our ability to correctly predict market changes, the degree of correlation between price movements of a derivative instrument and the position being hedged, the creditworthiness of the counterparty and other factors.  As a result, while we may enter into a transaction in order to reduce our exposure to market risks, the transaction may result in poorer overall investment performance than if it had not been executed.  Such transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the value of a hedged position increases.  Moreover, these hedging arrangements may generate significant transaction costs that reduce the returns generated by our funds.. In addition, derivative transactions expose our funds to liquidity, volatility, counterparty and other risks.  Please see \" - The derivatives that we or our funds use may subject us to increased risk of loss and may adversely affect our results of operations\" above.. Our funds are subject to risks in using prime brokers, custodians, counterparties, administrators, other agents and third-party service providers.. Many of our funds depend on the services of prime brokers, custodians, counterparties, administrators and other agents and third-party services providers to carry out certain securities and derivatives transactions and other business functions.  The terms of these contracts are often customized and complex, and many of these arrangements occur in markets or relate to products that are subject to limited or no regulatory oversight.  In particular, some of our funds utilize prime brokerage arrangements with a relatively limited number of counterparties, which has the effect of concentrating the transaction volume (and related counterparty default risk) of such funds with these counterparties.. 55. Our funds are subject to the risk that the counterparty to one or more of these contracts defaults, either voluntarily or involuntarily, on its performance under the contract.  Any such default may occur suddenly and without notice to us.  Moreover, if a counterparty defaults, we may be unable to take action to cover our exposure, either because we lack contractual recourse or because market conditions make it difficult to take effective action.  This inability could occur in times of market stress, which is when defaults are most likely to occur.. In addition, risk-management models that we may employ from time to time may not accurately anticipate the impact of market stress or counterparty financial condition, and as a result, we may not have taken sufficient action to reduce our risks effectively.  Default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect, foresee or evaluate.  In addition, concerns about, or a default by, one large participant could lead to significant liquidity problems for other participants, which may in turn expose us to significant losses.. In the event of a counterparty default, particularly a default by a major investment bank, one or more of our funds could incur material losses, and the resulting market impact of a major counterparty default could harm our business, results of operation and financial condition.. In the event of the insolvency of a prime broker, custodian, counterparty or any other party that is holding assets of our funds as collateral, our funds might not be able to recover equivalent assets in full as they will rank among the prime broker's, custodian's or counterparty's unsecured creditors in relation to the assets held as collateral.  In addition, our funds' cash held with a prime broker, custodian or counterparty generally will not be segregated from the prime broker's, custodian's or counterparty's own cash, and our funds may therefore rank as unsecured creditors in relation thereto.. The counterparty risks that our funds' face have increased in complexity and magnitude as a result of the disruption in the financial markets in recent years.  For example, the consolidation and elimination of counterparties has increased our concentration of counterparty risk and decreased the universe of potential counterparties, and our funds are generally not restricted from dealing with any particular counterparty or from concentrating any or all of their transactions with one counterparty.  In addition, counterparties have generally reacted to market volatility by tightening their underwriting standards and increasing their margin requirements for all categories of financing, which has the result of decreasing the overall amount of leverage available and increasing the costs of borrowing.. Risks Relating to Our Class A Units. The market price of our Class A units may decline due to the large number of units eligible for future sale and issuable pursuant to our 2011 Equity Incentive Plan.. The market price of our Class A units could decline as a result of sales of a large number of our Class A units in the market or the perception that these sales could occur.  As of February 12, 2018, there were 70,297,761 Class A units outstanding, which may be resold immediately in the public market upon the release of any applicable lock-up periods, and, in the case of Class A units held by our affiliates, as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act, subject to the applicable volume limitations of Rule 144 unless we register the resale of such units.  In addition, certain of our directors and executive officers (which includes our senior executives), other employees and certain other investors hold Oaktree Operating Group units through OCGH and, subject to certain restrictions, including the approval of our board of directors, have the right to exchange (or may be required to exchange) their OCGH units for, at the option of our board of directors, newly issued Class A units on a one-for-one basis, an equivalent amount of cash based on then-prevailing market prices, other consideration of equal value or any combination of the foregoing in accordance with the terms of the exchange agreement.  Please see \"Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence - Exchange Agreement.\"  The market price of our Class A units could decline as a result of an exchange, or the perception that an exchange may occur, of a large number of OCGH units for our Class A units.  As of February 12, 2018, there were 83,854,089 vested OCGH units outstanding.  Such sales or exchanges could also cause the price of our Class A units to fall and make it more difficult for our Class A unitholders to sell their units.. We may issue our Class A units from time to time as consideration for future acquisitions and investments.  If any such acquisition or investment is significant, the number of Class A units that we issue may in turn be significant.  We may also grant registration rights covering Class A units issued in connection with any such acquisitions and investments.  In addition, as of February 12, 2018, we may issue 12,016,674 Class A units, OCGH units or any other class or series of units or other ownership interests in us, OCGH or any of our affiliates (\"2011 Plan Units\") from time to time under our 2011 Oaktree Capital Group, LLC Equity Incentive Plan (the \"2011 Plan\") as well as 2011 Plan Units that become available under our 2011 Plan pursuant to provisions in the 2011 Plan that automatically increase 2011 Plan Units available for future issuance.  The units granted under the 2011 Plan may be subject to vesting and forfeiture provisions.  Any vesting terms are set by our board of directors or a committee. 56. appointed by our board of directors in their respective discretion.  Additional issuances of 2011 Plan Units may dilute the holdings of our existing unitholders, reduce the market price of our Class A units or both.. The market price and trading volume of our Class A units has been and may continue to be volatile, which could result in rapid and substantial losses for our Class A unitholders.. The market price of our Class A units may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations.  In addition, the trading volume in our Class A units may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur.  If the market price of our Class A units declines significantly, Class A unitholders may be unable to sell their Class A units at an attractive price, if at all.  The market price of our Class A units may fluctuate or decline significantly in the future.  Some of the factors that could negatively affect the price of our Class A units or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our Class A units include:. • variations in our quarterly operating results or distributions, which may be substantial;. • our policy of taking a long-term perspective on making investment, operational and strategic decisions, which is expected to result in significant and unpredictable variations in our quarterly returns;. • failure to meet analysts' performance estimates;. • publication of research reports about us or the investment management industry or the failure of securities analysts to cover our Class A units;. • additions or departures of key management or investment personnel;. • adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or securities we may issue in the future;. • changes in market valuations of similar companies;. • speculation in the press or investment community;. • changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or differing interpretations thereof affecting our business or enforcement of these laws and regulations or announcements relating to these matters;. • a lack of liquidity in the trading of our Class A units;. • adverse publicity about the asset management industry generally or individual scandals, specifically; and. • general market, political and economic conditions.. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls over our financial reporting in the future, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be adversely affected.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that as a public company we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures.  We are required under Section 404 to provide an annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and to include in our annual reports an opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm addressing its assessment.  To maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, significant resources and management oversight are required.  We have implemented and continue to implement additional procedures and processes for the purpose of addressing the standards and requirements applicable to public companies.. If it is determined that we are not in compliance with Section 404 in the future, we would be required to implement remedial procedures and re-evaluate our internal control over financial reporting and our operations, financial reporting or financial results could be adversely affected, and we could receive an adverse report on internal controls from our independent registered public accounting firm.  Matters impacting our internal controls may cause us to be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis and thereby subject us to adverse regulatory consequences, including sanctions by the SEC, or violations of applicable stock exchange listing rules. Moreover, if a material misstatement occurs in the future, we may need to restate our financial results and there could be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements.  Confidence in the reliability of our financial statements is also likely to suffer if our independent registered public accounting firm reports a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting.  This could materially adversely affect us and lead to a decline in the market price of our Class A units.. Preparing our consolidated financial statements involves a number of complex manual and automated processes, which are dependent on individual data input or review and require significant management judgment.  One or more of these elements may result in errors that may not be detected and could result in a material misstatement of our consolidated financial statements.. 57. The tax attributes of our Class A units may cause mutual funds to limit or reduce their holdings of Class A units.. U.S. mutual funds that are treated as regulated investment companies (\"RICs\") for U.S. federal income tax purposes are required, among other things, to distribute at least 90% of their taxable income to their shareholders in order to maintain their favorable U.S. income tax status.  RICs are required to meet this distribution requirement regardless of whether their investments generate cash distributions equal to their taxable income.  Accordingly, these investors have a strong incentive to invest in securities in which the amount of cash generated approximates the amount of taxable income recognized.  Our Class A unitholders, however, are frequently allocated an amount of taxable income that exceeds the amount of cash we distribute to them.  This may make it difficult for RICs to maintain a meaningful portion of their portfolio in our Class A units and may force those RICs that do hold our Class A units to sell all or a portion of their holdings.  These actions could increase the supply of, and reduce the demand for, our Class A units, which could cause the price of our Class A units to decline.. The market price of our Class A units may decline due to the large number of Class A units eligible for future issuance upon the exchange of OCGH units.. Subject to certain restrictions, including the approval of our board of directors, each holder of units in OCGH has the right to exchange (or may be required to exchange) his or her units for, at the option of our board of directors, newly issued Class A units on a one-for-one basis, an equivalent amount of cash based on then-prevailing market prices, other consideration of equal value or any combination of the foregoing.  The Class A units issued upon such exchanges may generally be resold immediately in the public market upon the release of any applicable lock-up periods, and, in the case of Class A units held by our affiliates, as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act, subject to the applicable volume limitations of Rule 144 unless we register the resale of such units.  Accordingly, subject to the exchange agreement described under \"Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence - Exchange Agreement,\" a substantial number of additional units are expected to be available to be sold in the future by the OCGH unitholders.  In addition, we completed the exchange of 12,998,725 OCGH units into an equivalent number of Class A units in November 2015.  The exchanged Class A units are subject to a three-year lock-up scheduled to be released in equal quarterly increments, generally two business days after each quarter's earnings release, which started with the earnings release for the fourth quarter of 2015.  This will result in approximately 1.1 million units becoming newly tradable each quarter until November 2018.. The market price of our Class A units could decline as a result of sales of a large number of Class A units issuable upon exchange of OCGH units.  These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, may also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate.. Additional issuances of units under our 2011 Plan may dilute the holdings of our existing unitholders, reduce the market price of our Class A units or both.  Additionally, our operating agreement authorizes us to issue an unlimited number of additional units and options, rights, warrants and appreciation rights relating to such units for consideration or for no consideration and on terms and conditions established by our board of directors in its sole discretion without the approval of Class A unitholders.  These additional securities may be used for a variety of purposes, including future offerings to raise additional capital, acquisitions and employee benefit plans.. We are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange (\"NYSE\") listing standards and, as a result, qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements.. Because our senior executives hold units representing more than 50% of our voting power, we are considered a \"controlled company\" for purposes of the NYSE listing requirements.  As such, we have elected, and intend to continue to elect, not to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, which may include one or more of the following: that a majority of our board of directors consist of independent directors, that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities and that we have a nominating and corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities.  In addition, we are not required to hold annual meetings of our unitholders.  Accordingly, our Class A unitholders do not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. Please see \"Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance - Board Structure and Governance - Controlled Company Exemption.\". 58. We cannot assure you that our intended quarterly distributions will be paid each quarter or at all.. We intend to distribute substantially all of the excess of our share of distributable earnings, net of income taxes, as determined by our board of directors after taking into account factors it deems relevant, such as, but not limited to, working capital levels, known or anticipated cash needs, business and investment opportunities, general economic and business conditions, our obligations under our debt instruments or other agreements, our compliance with applicable laws, the level and character of taxable income that flows through to our Class A unitholders, the availability and terms of outside financing, the possible repurchase of our Class A units in open market transactions, in privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, the possible repurchase of OCGH units, providing for future distributions to our Class A and OCGH unitholders, and growing our capital base.. We are not currently restricted by any contract from making distributions to our unitholders, although certain of our subsidiaries are bound by credit agreements that contain certain restricted payment or other covenants, which may have the effect of limiting the amount of distributions that we receive from our subsidiaries.  In addition, we are not permitted to make a distribution under Section 18-607 of the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act (the \"Act\") if, after giving effect to the distribution, our liabilities would exceed the fair value of our assets.. Distributions to our Class A unitholders are funded by our share of the Oaktree Operating Group's distributions.  To measure our earnings for purposes of, among other things, assisting in the determination of distributions from the Oaktree Operating Group entities to us, we utilize distributable earnings, a non-GAAP performance measure derived from our non-GAAP results, which excludes the effects of the consolidated funds.. The declaration, payment and determination of the amount of our quarterly distribution, if any, is at the sole discretion of our board of directors, which may change our distribution policy at any time.  Our operating agreement provides that so long as our senior executives, or their successors or affiliated entities (other than us or our subsidiaries), including OCGH, collectively hold, directly or indirectly, at least 10% of the aggregate outstanding Oaktree Operating Group units (the \"Oaktree control condition\"), our manager, which is 100% owned by our senior executives, is entitled to designate all the members of our board of directors.  As a result, Class A unitholders do not have the power to elect the board of directors as long as the Oaktree control condition is satisfied.  Moreover, our board of directors may have interests that conflict with the interests of the Class A unitholders because the persons who control our manager and a majority of the members of our board of directors hold the vast majority of their economic interests in the Oaktree Operating Group through OCGH rather than through OCG.  We cannot assure you that any distributions, whether quarterly or otherwise, will or can be paid.. If we reduce or cease to make distributions on our Class A units, the value of our Class A units may significantly decrease.. Risks Relating to Our Organization and Structure. If we or any of our private funds were deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act, applicable restrictions could make it impractical for us to continue our business or such funds as contemplated and could have a material adverse effect on our business.. A person will generally be deemed to be an \"investment company\" for purposes of the Investment Company Act if:. • it is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily, or proposes to engage primarily, in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities; or. • absent an applicable exemption, it owns or proposes to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis.. We believe that we are engaged primarily in the business of providing asset management services and not primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities.  We also believe that the primary source of income from our business is properly characterized as income earned in exchange for the provision of services.  We hold ourselves out as an asset management firm and do not propose to engage primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities.  Further, because we believe that the capital interests of the general partners of our funds in their respective funds are neither securities nor investment securities for purposes of the Investment Company Act, we believe that less than 40% of our total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis are comprised of assets that could be considered investment securities.  Accordingly, we do not believe that we are an investment company under the Investment Company Act.. The Investment Company Act and the rules thereunder contain detailed parameters for the organization and operation of investment companies.  Among other things, the Investment Company Act and the rules thereunder. 59. limit or prohibit transactions with affiliates, impose limitations on the issuance of debt and equity securities, generally prohibit the issuance of options and impose certain governance requirements.  We intend to conduct our operations so that we will not be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act.  While we do advise or sub-advise funds that are registered under the Investment Company Act, we operate our private funds so that they are not deemed to be investment companies that are required to be registered under the Investment Company Act.  If anything were to happen that would cause us to be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act or that would require us to register our private funds under the Investment Company Act, requirements imposed by the Investment Company Act, including limitations on capital structure, ability to transact business with affiliates and ability to compensate senior employees, could make it impractical for us to continue our business or the private funds as currently conducted, impair the agreements and arrangements between and among OCGH, us, our private funds and our senior management, or any combination thereof, and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, we may be required to limit the amount of investments that we make as a principal or otherwise conduct our business in a manner that does not subject us to the registration and other requirements of the Investment Company Act.. Our Class A unitholders do not elect our manager and have limited ability to influence decisions regarding our business, and our senior executives are able to determine the outcome of any matters submitted to a vote of unitholders.. Our operations and activities are managed by our board of directors. So long as the Oaktree control condition is satisfied, our manager, Oaktree Capital Group Holdings GP, LLC, which is owned by our senior executives, is entitled to designate all the members of our board of directors and to remove or replace any director (or our entire board of directors) at any time.  Accordingly, our senior executives control our management and affairs.  Our Class A unitholders do not elect our manager.. While our Class A units and Class B units generally vote together as a single class on the limited matters submitted to a vote of unitholders, including certain amendments of our operating agreement, our operating agreement does not obligate us to hold annual meetings.  Accordingly, our Class A unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and therefore limited ability to influence decisions regarding our business.  In addition, through their control of our Class B units held by OCGH, our senior executives, with a 92.4% voting interest as of February 12, 2018, are able to determine the outcome of any matter that our board of directors does submit to a vote.. Our senior executives' control of our manager and of the combined voting power of our units and certain provisions of our operating agreement could delay or prevent a change of control.. As of February 12, 2018, our senior executives control 92.4% of the combined voting power of our units through their control of OCGH.  In addition, our senior executives have the ability to determine the composition of our board of directors through their control of our manager.  Our senior executives are able to appoint and remove our directors and change the size of our board of directors, are able to determine the outcome of all matters requiring unitholder approval, are able to cause or prevent a change of control of our company and can preclude any unsolicited acquisition of our company.  In addition, provisions in our operating agreement make it more difficult and expensive for a third party to acquire control of us even if a change of control would be beneficial to the interests of our Class A unitholders.  For example, our operating agreement provides that only our board of directors may call meetings and authorizes the issuance of preferred units in us that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt.  The control of our manager and voting power by our senior executives and these provisions of our operating agreement could delay or prevent a change of control and thereby deprive Class A unitholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their Class A units as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our Class A units.. Our senior executives hold a smaller amount of their economic interest in the Oaktree Operating Group through us, which may give rise to conflicts of interest, and it is difficult for a Class A unitholder to successfully challenge a resolution of a conflict of interest by us.. As of February 12, 2018, our senior executives hold approximately 27.9% of the economic interests of the Oaktree Operating Group.  Because they hold the vast majority of this economic interest as a group through their ownership in OCGH rather than through their ownership in us, our senior executives may have interests that conflict with those of the holders of Class A units.  For example, our senior executives may have different tax positions from us, which could influence their decisions regarding whether and when to dispose of assets and whether and when to incur new or refinance existing indebtedness, especially in light of the existence of the tax receivable agreement. In addition, the structuring of future transactions may take into consideration the senior executives' and employees' tax considerations even where no similar benefit would accrue to us and the Class A unitholders.. 60. Any resolution or course of action taken by our directors or their affiliates with respect to an existing or potential conflict of interest involving OCGH, our directors or their respective affiliates is permitted and deemed approved by the Class A unitholders and does not constitute a breach of our operating agreement or any duty (including any fiduciary duty) if the course of action is (a) approved by the vote of unitholders representing a majority of the total votes that may be cast by disinterested parties, (b) on terms no less favorable to us, our subsidiaries or our unitholders than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties, (c) fair and reasonable to us, taking into account the totality of the relationships among the parties involved, or (d) approved by a majority of our directors who are not employees of us, our subsidiaries or any of our affiliates controlled by our senior executives, who we refer to as our \"outside directors.\"  If our board of directors determines that any resolution or course of action satisfies either (b) or (c) above, then it will be presumed that such determination was made in good faith and a Class A unitholder seeking to challenge our directors' determination would bear the burden of overcoming such presumption.  This is different from the situation with Delaware corporations, where a conflict resolution by an interested party would be presumed to be unfair and the interested party would have the burden of demonstrating that the resolution was fair.. As noted above, if our board of directors obtains the approval of a majority of our outside directors for any given action, the resolution will be conclusively deemed not a breach by our board of directors of any duties it may owe to us or our Class A unitholders.  This is different from the situation with Delaware corporations, where the approval of outside directors may, in certain circumstances, merely shift the burden of demonstrating unfairness to the plaintiff.  Potential conflicts of interest may be resolved by our outside directors even if they hold interests in us or our funds or are otherwise affected by the decision or action that they are approving.  If an investor chooses to purchase a Class A unit, the investor is treated as having consented to the provisions set forth in our operating agreement, including provisions regarding conflicts of interest situations that, in the absence of such provisions, might be considered a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable state law.  As a result, Class A unitholders, as a practical matter, are not able to successfully challenge an informed decision by our outside directors.. Our operating agreement contains provisions that substantially limit remedies available to our Class A unitholders for actions that might otherwise result in liability for our officers, directors, manager or Class B unitholder.. While our operating agreement provides that our officers and directors have fiduciary duties equivalent to those applicable to officers and directors of a Delaware corporation under the Delaware General Corporation Law (\"DGCL\"), the agreement also provides that our officers and directors are liable to us or our unitholders for an act or omission only if such act or omission constitutes a breach of the duties owed to us or our unitholders, as applicable, by any such officer or director and such breach is the result of willful malfeasance, gross negligence, the commission of a felony or a material violation of law, in each case, that has, or could reasonably be expected to have, a material adverse effect on us or fraud.  Moreover, we have agreed to indemnify each of our directors and officers, to the fullest extent permitted by law, against all expenses and liabilities (including judgments, fines, penalties, interest, amounts paid in settlement with our approval and counsel fees and disbursements) arising from the performance of any of their obligations or duties in connection with their service to us, including in connection with any civil, criminal, administrative, investigative or other action, suit or proceeding to which any such person may be made party by reason of being or having been one of our directors or officers, except for any expenses or liabilities that have been finally judicially determined to have arisen primarily from acts or omissions that violated the standard set forth in the preceding sentence.  Furthermore, our operating agreement provides that OCGH does not have any liability to us or our other unitholders for any act or omission and is indemnified in connection therewith.. Our manager, whose only role is to appoint members of our board of directors so long as the Oaktree control condition is satisfied, does not owe any duties to us or our Class A unitholders. We have agreed to indemnify our manager in the same manner as our directors and officers described above.. Under our operating agreement, each of our board of directors, our manager and us is entitled to take actions or make decisions in its \"sole discretion\" or \"discretion\" or that it deems \"necessary or appropriate\" or \"necessary or advisable.\"  In those circumstances, each of our board of directors, our manager or us is entitled to consider only such interests and factors as it desires, including our own or our directors' interests, and neither it nor our board of directors has any duty or obligation (fiduciary or otherwise) to give any consideration to any interest of or factors affecting us or any Class A unitholders, and neither we nor our board of directors is subject to any different standards imposed by our operating agreement, the Act or under any other law, rule or regulation or in equity, except that we must act in good faith at all times.  These modifications of fiduciary duties are expressly permitted by Delaware law.  These modifications are detrimental to the Class A unitholders because they restrict the. 61. remedies available to Class A unitholders for actions that without those limitations might constitute breaches of duty (including fiduciary duty).. The control of our manager may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. Our manager may transfer its manager interest to a third party in a merger or consolidation, in a transfer of all or substantially all of its assets or otherwise without the consent of our unitholders.  Furthermore, our senior executives may sell or transfer all or part of their interests in our manager without the approval of our unitholders.  A new manager could have a different investment philosophy or use its control of our board of directors to make changes to our business that materially affect our funds, our results of operations or our financial condition.. Our ability to make distributions to our Class A unitholders may be limited by our holding company structure, applicable provisions of Delaware law, contractual restrictions and the terms of any senior securities we may issue in the future.. We are a limited liability holding company and have no material assets other than the ownership of our interests in the Oaktree Operating Group held through the Intermediate Holding Companies.  We have no independent means of generating revenues.  Accordingly, to the extent we decide to make distributions to our Class A unitholders, we will cause the Oaktree Operating Group to make distributions to its unitholders, including the Intermediate Holding Companies, to fund any distributions we may declare on the Class A units.  When the Oaktree Operating Group makes such distributions, all holders of Oaktree Operating Group units are entitled to receive pro rata distributions based on their ownership interests in the Oaktree Operating Group.. The declaration and payment of any future distributions is at the sole discretion of our board of directors, and we may at any time modify our approach with respect to the proper metric for determining cash flow available for distribution.  Our board of directors will take into account factors it deems relevant, such as, but not limited to, working capital levels, known or anticipated cash needs, business and investment opportunities, general economic and business conditions, our obligations under our debt instruments or other agreements, our compliance with applicable laws, the level and character of taxable income that flows through to our Class A and OCGH unitholders, the availability and terms of outside financing, the possible repurchase of our Class A units in open market transactions, in privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, the possible repurchase of OCGH units, providing for future distributions to our Class A unitholders, and growing our capital base.  Under the Act, we may not make a distribution to a member if, after the distribution, all our liabilities, other than liabilities to members on account of their limited liability company interests and liabilities for which the recourse of creditors is limited to specific property of the limited liability company, would exceed the fair value of our assets.  If we were to make such an impermissible distribution, any member who received a distribution and knew at the time of the distribution that the distribution was in violation of the Act would be liable to us for three years for the amount of the distribution.  In addition, the Oaktree Operating Group's cash flow may be insufficient to enable it to make required minimum tax distributions to holders of its units, in which case the Oaktree Operating Group may have to borrow funds or sell assets and thus our liquidity and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.  Our operating agreement contains provisions authorizing the issuance of preferred units in us by our board of directors at any time without unitholder approval.. Furthermore, by paying cash distributions rather than investing that cash in our business, we risk slowing the pace of our growth, or not having a sufficient amount of cash to fund our operations, new investments or unanticipated capital expenditures, should the need arise.. We are required to pay the OCGH unitholders for most of the tax benefits we realize as a result of the tax basis step-up we receive in connection with the sales by the OCGH unitholders of interests held in OCGH.. Subject to certain restrictions, including the approval of our board of directors, each OCGH unitholder has the right to exchange (or may be required to exchange) his or her OCGH units for, at the option of our board of directors, Class A units, an equivalent amount of cash based on then-prevailing market prices, other consideration of equal value or any combination of the foregoing.  In the event of an exchange, our Intermediate Holding Companies will deliver, at the option of our board of directors, our Class A units on a one-for-one basis, an equivalent amount of cash based on then-prevailing market prices, other consideration of equal value or any combination of the foregoing in exchange for the applicable OCGH unitholder's OCGH units pursuant to an exchange agreement.  These exchanges are expected to result in increases in certain tax depreciation and amortization deductions, as well as an increase in the tax basis of other assets, of certain of the Oaktree Operating Group entities that otherwise would not have been available.  These increases in tax depreciation and amortization deductions, as well as the tax basis of other assets, may reduce the amount of tax that Oaktree Holdings, Inc. and Oaktree AIF Holdings, Inc. would otherwise be required to pay in the future, although the Internal Revenue Service. 62. (\"IRS\") may challenge all or part of the increased deductions and tax basis increase, and a court could sustain such a challenge.. Oaktree Holdings, Inc. and Oaktree AIF Holdings, Inc. have entered into a tax receivable agreement with the OCGH unitholders that provides for the payment by Oaktree Holdings, Inc. and Oaktree AIF Holdings, Inc. to the OCGH unitholders of 85% of the amount of tax savings, if any, that they actually realize (or are deemed to realize in the case of an early termination payment by Oaktree Holdings, Inc. or Oaktree AIF Holdings, Inc. or a change of control, as discussed below) as a result of these increases in tax deductions and tax basis of entities owned by Oaktree Holdings, Inc. and Oaktree AIF Holdings, Inc.  The payments that Oaktree Holdings, Inc. and Oaktree AIF Holdings, Inc. may make to the OCGH unitholders could be material in amount.. Although we are not aware of any issue that would cause the IRS to challenge a tax basis increase, the OCGH unitholders will not reimburse Oaktree Holdings, Inc. or Oaktree AIF Holdings, Inc. for any payments that have been previously made under the tax receivable agreement.  As a result, in certain circumstances, payments could be made to the OCGH unitholders under the tax receivable agreement in excess of Oaktree Holdings, Inc.'s and Oaktree AIF Holdings, Inc.'s cash tax savings.  Their ability to achieve benefits from any tax basis increase, and the payments to be made under the tax receivable agreement, will depend upon a number of factors, including the timing and amount of our future income.. In addition, the tax receivable agreement provides that, upon a merger, asset sale or other form of business combination or certain other changes of control, Oaktree Holdings, Inc.'s and Oaktree AIF Holdings, Inc.'s (or their successors') obligations with respect to exchanged units (whether exchanged before or after the change of control) would be based on certain assumptions, including that they would have sufficient taxable income to fully utilize the deductions arising from the increased tax deductions and tax basis and other benefits related to entering into the tax receivable agreement.. Risks Relating to United States Taxation. Our structure involves complex provisions of U.S. federal income tax law for which no clear precedent or authority may be available and is subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative change and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis.. The U.S. federal income tax treatment of Class A unitholders depends in some instances on determinations of fact and interpretations of complex provisions of U.S. federal income tax law for which no clear precedent or authority may be available.  The U.S. federal income tax rules are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS and the United States Treasury (\"UST\"), frequently resulting in revised interpretations of established concepts, statutory changes, revisions to regulations and other modifications and interpretations.  The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of an investment in our Class A units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time, and any such action may affect investments and commitments previously made. Changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the qualifying income exception for us to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes that is not taxable as a corporation, cause us to change our investments and commitments, affect the tax considerations of an investment in us, change the character or treatment of portions of our income (including, for instance, the treatment of carried interest as ordinary income rather than capital gain) and adversely affect an investment in our Class A units.  The maintenance of our structure and tax attributes requires significant monitoring and resources.  Failure to maintain this structure could result in material adverse consequences.. Our operating agreement permits our board of directors to modify our operating agreement from time to time, without the consent of our Class A unitholders, to address certain changes in U.S. federal income tax regulations, legislation or interpretation. In some circumstances, the revisions could have a material adverse impact on some or all Class A unitholders.  Moreover, we apply certain assumptions and conventions in an attempt to comply with applicable rules and to report income, gain, deduction, loss and credit to Class A unitholders in a manner that reflects such Class A unitholders' beneficial ownership of partnership items, taking into account variation in ownership interests during each taxable year because of trading activity.  However, those assumptions and conventions may not be in compliance with all aspects of applicable tax requirements.  It is possible that the IRS will assert successfully that the conventions and assumptions used by us do not satisfy the technical requirements of the Code or UST regulations and could require that items of income, gain, deductions, loss or credit, including interest deductions, be adjusted, reallocated or disallowed in a manner that adversely affects Class A unitholders.. 63. If we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax or state tax purposes, then our distributions to our Class A unitholders may be substantially reduced and the value of our Class A units could be adversely affected.. We are currently treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which requires that 90% or more of our gross income for every taxable year consist of qualifying income, as defined in Section 7704 of the Code, and that we not be required to be registered under the Investment Company Act.  Qualifying income generally includes dividends, interest, capital gains from the sale or other disposition of stocks and securities and certain other forms of investment income.  We may not meet these requirements or current law may change so as to cause us, in either event, to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject to U.S. federal income tax.  We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on such matters.. If we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would pay U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate.  Distributions to Class A unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to them.  Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our distributions to Class A unitholders may be substantially reduced, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our Class A units.. Our Class A unitholders may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on their share of our taxable income, regardless of whether they receive any cash distributions from us.. As long as 90% of our gross income for each taxable year constitutes qualifying income as defined in Section 7704 of the Code and we are not required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act on a continuing basis, and assuming there is no change in law (please see \" - The U.S. Congress has considered legislation that may have precluded us from qualifying as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.  If any similar legislation were to be enacted and apply to us, the after-tax income and gain related to our business, as well as the market price of our Class A units, could be reduced.\"), or other relevant change in our structure, we will be treated, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as a partnership and not as an association or a publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation.  Accordingly, our Class A unitholders will be required to take into account their allocable share of our items of income, gain, loss and deduction. Distributions to our Class A unitholders will generally be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes only to the extent the amount distributed exceeds their tax basis in the Class A unit. That treatment contrasts with the treatment of a shareholder in a corporation. For example, a shareholder in a corporation who receives a distribution of earnings from the corporation will generally report the distribution as dividend income for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In contrast, a holder of our Class A units who receives a distribution of earnings from us will not report the distribution as dividend income (and will treat the distribution as taxable only to the extent the amount distributed exceeds the Class A unitholder's tax basis in the Class A units), but will instead report the holder's allocable share of items of our income for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, our Class A unitholders may be subject to U.S. federal, state, local and possibly, in some cases, foreign income taxation on their allocable share of our items of income, gain, loss, deduction and credit (including our allocable share of those items of any entity in which we invest that is treated as a partnership or is otherwise subject to tax on a flow-through basis) for each of our taxable years ending with or within their taxable year, regardless of whether or not our Class A unitholders receive cash distributions from us.. Our Class A unitholders may not receive cash distributions equal to their allocable share of our net taxable income or even the tax liability that results from that income.  In addition, certain of our holdings, including holdings, if any, in a controlled foreign corporation (\"CFC\") or a passive foreign investment company (\"PFIC\"), may produce taxable income prior to the receipt of cash relating to such income, and Class A unitholders may be required to take that income into account in determining their taxable income.  In the event of an inadvertent termination of our partnership status, for which limited relief may be available, each holder of our Class A units may be obligated to make such adjustments as the IRS may require to maintain our status as a partnership.  These adjustments may require persons holding our Class A units to recognize additional amounts in income during the years in which they hold such units.. A portion of our interest in the Oaktree Operating Group is held through intermediate entities taxed as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. In light of the publicly traded partnership rules under U.S. federal income tax law and other requirements, we hold a portion of our interest in the Oaktree Operating Group through intermediate entities taxed as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes.  Such corporations may be liable for significant U.S. federal income taxes and applicable state, local and other taxes (including taxes imposed as a result of audits by taxing authorities of such. 64. entities' tax returns) that would not otherwise be incurred, which could adversely affect the value of our Class A units.  Those additional taxes do not apply to the OCGH unitholders to the extent they own equity interests in the Oaktree Operating Group entities through OCGH.. The U.S. Congress has considered legislation that may have precluded us from qualifying as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.  If any similar legislation were to be enacted and apply to us, the after-tax income and gain related to our business, as well as the market price of our Class A units, could be reduced.. Some legislative and administrative proposals have provided that, for taxable years beginning ten years after the date of enactment, income derived with respect to an investment services partnership (\"ISPI\") that is not a qualified capital interest and that is subject to the rules discussed above would not meet the qualifying income requirements under the publicly traded partnership rules.  Therefore, if similar legislation is enacted, following such ten-year period, we would be precluded from qualifying as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes or be required to hold all such ISPIs through corporations, possibly U.S. corporations.  If we were taxed as a U.S. corporation or required to hold all ISPIs through U.S. corporations, our effective income tax rate may increase significantly.  The currently-enacted federal statutory rate for corporations is 21%.  In addition, we could be subject to increased state and local taxes.  Furthermore, you could be subject to tax on our conversion into a corporation or any restructuring required in order for us to hold our ISPIs through a corporation.. States and other jurisdictions have also considered legislation to increase taxes with respect to incentive income.  For example, New York has considered legislation under which Class A unitholders could be subject to New York state income tax on income in respect of our Class A units as a result of certain activities of our affiliates in New York, although it is unclear when or whether similar legislation will be enacted.. Comprehensive U.S. federal income tax reform tax legislation recently became effective, which could have a material effect on us.. Recently enacted U.S. federal income tax reform legislation (the \"Tax Reform Bill\") has resulted in fundamental changes to the Code.  Changes to U.S. tax laws resulting from the Tax Reform Bill, including a permanent reduction to the federal corporate income tax rate, a partial limitation on the deductibility of business interest expense, a longer three-year holding period requirement for carried interest to be treated as capital gain, and certain modifications to the Section 162(m) of the Code, could have a material effect on our business operations and our funds' investment activities.  These and other changes from the Tax Reform Bill  -  namely, the limitation on carryback and carryforward of net operating losses and U.S. taxation on earnings from international business operations  -  could also have a significant effect on the business of our portfolio companies.  The exact impact of the Tax Reform Bill is still unclear and difficult to quantify, but these changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  Prospective investors should consult their own tax advisors regarding changes in tax laws.. Additional proposed changes in the U.S. and foreign taxation of businesses could adversely affect us.. The U.S. Congress, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (\"OECD\") and other government and non-government agencies in jurisdictions in which we and our affiliates invest or do business have maintained a focus on issues related to the taxation of multinational companies.  The OECD, which represents a coalition of member countries, is contemplating changes to numerous long-standing tax principles through its base erosion and profit shifting (\"BEPS\") project, which is focused on a number of issues, including treaty abuse, the deductibility of interest expense, local nexus requirements, and the shifting of profits between affiliated entities in different tax jurisdictions.  Some OECD member countries have been moving forward on the BEPS agenda but, because timing of implementation and the specific measures adopted will vary among participating states, significant uncertainty remains regarding the impact of BEPS proposals.  The BEPS project and other reform proposals, if implemented, could result in increased taxes on our operations and investments.. Complying with certain tax-related requirements may cause us to invest through foreign or domestic corporations subject to corporate income tax, which may increase our overall tax burden.. In order for us to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes and not as an association or publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation, we must meet the qualifying income exception discussed above on a continuing basis.  In order to effect such treatment, we (or our subsidiaries) may be required to invest through foreign or domestic corporations subject to corporate income tax, which may increase our overall tax burden.. 65. Changes in U.S. and foreign tax law could adversely affect our ability to raise funds from certain investors.. Under the U.S. Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (\"FATCA\"), U.S. withholding agents and all entities in a broadly defined class of foreign financial institutions (\"FFIs\"), are required to comply with a complicated and expansive reporting regime or be subject to a 30% United States withholding tax on certain U.S. payments (and beginning in 2019, a 30% withholding tax on gross proceeds from the sale of U.S. stocks and securities) and non U.S. entities which are not FFIs are required to either certify they have no substantial U.S. beneficial ownership or to report certain information with respect to their substantial U.S. beneficial ownership or be subject to a 30% U.S. withholding tax on certain U.S. payments (and beginning in 2019, a 30% withholding tax on gross proceeds from the sale of U.S. stocks and securities).  The reporting obligations imposed under FATCA require these foreign financial institutions to enter into agreements with the IRS and other jurisdictions to obtain and disclose information about certain investors to the IRS.  Additionally, certain non-U.S. entities that are not foreign financial institutions are required to provide certain certifications or other information regarding their U.S. beneficial ownership or be subject to certain U.S. withholding taxes.  In addition, the administrative and economic costs of compliance with FATCA may discourage some foreign investors from investing in U.S. funds, which could adversely affect our ability to raise funds from these investors.  Other countries have implemented regimes similar to that of FATCA and more than 90 jurisdictions have agreed to implement the Common Reporting Standard issued by the OECD (\"CRS\"), which requires signatories to exchange information regarding residents' assets and income.  Compliance with such regimes could result in increased administrative and compliance costs and could subject our investment entities to increased non-U.S. withholding taxes.. Taxable gain or loss on disposition of our Class A units could be more or less than expected.. If a unitholder sells its Class A units, it will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and the adjusted tax basis in those Class A units.  Prior distributions to such unitholder in excess of the total net taxable income allocated to it, which decreased the tax basis in its Class A units, will in effect become taxable income to such unitholder if the Class A units are sold at a price greater than its tax basis in those Class A units, even if the price is less than the original cost.  A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income to such selling unitholder.. We may hold or acquire certain investments through entities classified as a PFIC or CFC for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. Certain of our funds' investments may be in foreign corporations or may be acquired through a foreign subsidiary that would be classified as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes.  Such an entity may be a PFIC or a CFC for U.S. federal income tax purposes.  Class A unitholders indirectly owning an interest in a PFIC or a CFC may experience adverse U.S. tax consequences.  For example, a portion of the amount a unitholder realizes on a sale of their Class A units may be recharacterized as ordinary income.  In addition, Oaktree Holdings, Ltd. is treated as a CFC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and, as such, each Class A unitholder that is a U.S. person is required to include in income its allocable share of Oaktree Holdings, Ltd.'s \"Subpart F\" income reported by us.. Non-U.S. persons face unique U.S. tax issues from owning Class A units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.. In light of our intended investment activities, we may be treated as engaged in a U.S. trade or business for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which may cause some portion of our income to be treated as effectively connected income (\"ECI\") with respect to non-U.S. holders.  Moreover, dividends paid by an investment that we make in a real estate investment trust (\"REIT\") that are attributable to gains from the sale of U.S. real property interests and sales of certain investments in interests in U.S. real property, including stock of certain U.S. corporations owning significant U.S. real property, may be treated as ECI with respect to certain non-U.S. holders.. To the extent our income is treated as ECI, non-U.S. holders generally would be subject to withholding tax on their allocable shares of such income, would be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns for such year reporting their allocable shares of income effectively connected with such trade or business and any other income treated as ECI and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular U.S. tax rates on any such income (state and local income taxes and filings may also apply in that event).  Non-U.S. holders that are corporations may also be subject to a 30% branch profits tax on their allocable share of such income.  In addition, certain income from U.S. sources that is not ECI allocable to non-U.S. holders will be reduced by withholding taxes imposed at the highest effective applicable tax rate.. If we are treated as being engaged in a U.S. trade or business, any gain recognized by a non-U.S. holder on the sale or exchange of Class A units that is deemed to be effectively connected with such U.S. trade or business will be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as ECI, and hence, such Class A unitholders would be subject. 66. to U.S. federal income tax on the sale or exchange of such Class A units.  Under the Tax Reform Bill, unless an applicable non-foreign affidavit is furnished or other exception applies, if any portion of gain on a disposition of Class A units would be treated as ECI, the transferee of an interest in us is required to withhold 10% of the amount realized on such disposition (and we would be required to withhold from future distributions to the transferee if the transferee fails to properly withhold).  The UST and IRS have announced the temporary suspension of such withholding tax provisions with respect to any disposition of an interest in a publicly traded partnership until regulations or other guidance have been issued. Such withholding tax provisions, when effective for publicly traded partnerships, could impose material tax and administrative burdens on us and our Class A unitholders.. Tax-exempt entities face unique tax issues from owning Class A units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.. In light of our intended investment activities, we may derive income that constitutes unrelated business taxable income (\"UBTI\").  Consequently, a holder of Class A units that is a tax-exempt entity (including an individual retirement account or a 401(k) plan participant) may be subject to unrelated business income tax to the extent that its allocable share of our income consists of UBTI.  A tax-exempt partner of a partnership could be treated as earning UBTI if the partnership regularly engages in a trade or business that is unrelated to the exempt function of the tax-exempt partner, if the partnership derives income from debt-financed property or if the partnership interest itself is debt-financed.. We have adopted and may adopt certain income tax accounting positions that may not conform with all aspects of applicable tax requirements. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our Class A units.. We have adopted and may adopt depreciation, amortization and other tax accounting positions that may not conform with all aspects of existing UST regulations.  A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our Class A unitholders.  It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain on the sale of Class A units and could have a negative impact on the value of our Class A units or result in audits of and adjustments to our Class A unitholders' tax returns.. Class A unitholders may be subject to foreign, state and local taxes and return filing requirements as a result of investing in our Class A units.. In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, our Class A unitholders may be subject to other taxes, including foreign, state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property now or in the future, even if our Class A unitholders do not reside in any of those jurisdictions.  Our Class A unitholders may be required to file foreign, state and local income tax returns and pay foreign, state and local income taxes in some or all of these jurisdictions.  Furthermore, Class A unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements.  It is the responsibility of each Class A unitholder to file all U.S. federal, foreign, state and local tax returns that may be required of such Class A unitholder.. Although we expect to provide estimates by the deadline for filing U.S. income tax returns each year, we do not necessarily expect to be able to furnish definitive Schedule K-1s to IRS Form 1065 to each unitholder prior to such deadline, which means that holders of Class A units who are U.S. taxpayers may want to file annually a request for an extension of the due date of their income tax returns.. It may require a substantial period of time after the end of our fiscal year to obtain the requisite information from all lower-tier entities to enable us to prepare and deliver Schedule K-1s to IRS Form 1065.  In the event we cannot provide timely Schedule K-1s, we expect to provide estimates of such tax information (including a Class A unitholder's allocable share of our income, gain, loss and deduction for our preceding year) by the deadline for filing U.S. income tax returns each year; in that event however, there is no assurance that the Schedule K-1s, which would be provided after the estimates, will be the same as our estimates.  For this reason, holders of Class A units who are U.S. taxpayers may want to file with the IRS (and certain states) a request for an extension past the due date of their income tax returns.. In addition, in the event we provide separate estimates and subsequent Schedule K-1s, it is possible that a Class A unitholder will be required to file amended income tax returns as a result of adjustments to items on the corresponding income tax returns of the partnership. Any obligation for a Class A unitholder to file amended income tax returns for that or any other reason, including any costs incurred in the preparation or filing of such returns, is the responsibility of each Class A unitholder.. 67. Tax consequences to the OCGH unitholders may give rise to conflicts of interests.. As a result of an unrealized built-in gain attributable to the value of our assets held by the Oaktree Operating Group entities at the time of the 2007 Private Offering and unrealized built-in gain attributable to OCGH at the time of our initial public offering in April 2012, upon the taxable sale, refinancing or disposition of the assets owned by the Oaktree Operating Group entities, the OCGH unitholders may incur different and significantly greater tax liabilities as a result of the disproportionately greater allocations of items of taxable income and gain to the OCGH unitholders upon a realization event.  As the OCGH unitholders will not receive a corresponding greater distribution of cash proceeds, they may, subject to applicable fiduciary or contractual duties, have different objectives regarding the appropriate pricing, timing and other material terms of any sale, refinancing or disposition, or whether to sell such assets at all.  Decisions made with respect to an acceleration or deferral of income or the sale or disposition of assets may also influence the timing and amount of payments that are received by an exchanging or selling OCGH unitholder under the tax receivable agreement.  Decisions made regarding a change of control also could have a material influence on the timing and amount of payments received by the OCGH unitholders pursuant to the tax receivable agreement.  Because our senior executives hold their economic interest in our business primarily through OCGH and control both us and our manager (which is entitled to designate all the members of our board of directors), these differing objectives may give rise to conflicts of interest.  We will be entitled to resolve these conflicts as described elsewhere in this annual report.  Please see \" - Risks Relating to Our Organization and Structure - Our senior executives hold a small amount of their economic interest in the Oaktree Operating Group through us, which may give rise to conflicts of interest, and it is difficult for a Class A unitholder to successfully challenge a resolution of a conflict of interest by us.\". Due to uncertainty in the proper application of applicable law, we may over-withhold or under-withhold on distributions to Class A unitholders.. For each calendar year, we will report to Class A unitholders and the IRS the amount of distributions we made to Class A unitholders and the amount of U.S. federal income tax (if any) that we withheld on those distributions.  The proper application to us of rules for withholding under Section 1441 of the Code (applicable to certain dividends, interest and similar items) is unclear.  Because the documentation we receive may not properly reflect the identities of Class A unitholders at any particular time (in light of possible sales of Class A units), we may over-withhold or under-withhold with respect to a particular holder of Class A units.  For example, we may impose withholding, remit that amount to the IRS and thus reduce the amount of a distribution paid to a non-U.S. Holder.  It may turn out, however, that the corresponding amount of our income was not properly allocable to such holder, and the withholding should have been less than the actual withholding.  Such holder would be entitled to a credit against the holder's U.S. tax liability for all withholding, including any such excess withholding, but if the withholding exceeded the holder's U.S. tax liability, the holder would have to apply for a refund to obtain the benefit of the excess withholding.  Similarly, we may fail to withhold on a distribution, and it may turn out that the corresponding income was properly allocable to a non-U.S. Holder and withholding should have been imposed.  In that event, we intend to pay the under-withheld amount to the IRS, and we may treat such under-withholding as an expense that will be borne by all holders of Class A units on a pro rata basis (since we may be unable to allocate any such excess withholding tax cost to the relevant non-U.S. holder).. Certain U.S. holders of common units are subject to additional tax on \"net investment income.\". U.S. holders that are individuals, estates or trusts are subject to a Medicare tax of 3.8% on \"net investment income\" (or undistributed \"net investment income,\" in the case of estates and trusts) for each taxable year, with such tax applying to the lesser of such income or the excess of such person's adjusted gross income (with certain adjustments) over a specified amount.  Net investment income includes net income from interest, dividends, annuities, royalties and rents and net gain attributable to the disposition of investment property.  Net income and gain attributable to an investment in our Class A units will be included in a U.S. holder's \"net investment income\" subject to this Medicare tax.. We may be liable for adjustments to our tax returns as a result of partnership audit legislation.. Legislation enacted in 2015 significantly changed the rules for U.S. federal income tax audits of partnerships.  Such audits will continue to be conducted at the partnership level, but with respect to tax returns for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, and, unless a partnership qualifies for and affirmatively elects an alternative procedure, any adjustments to the amount of tax due (including interest and penalties) will be payable by the partnership.  Under the elective alternative procedure, a partnership would issue information returns to persons who were partners in the audited year, who would then be required to take the adjustments into account in calculating their own tax liability, and the partnership would not be liable for the adjustments.  If a partnership elects the alternative procedure for a given adjustment, the amount of taxes for which its partners would be liable would be. 68. increased by any applicable penalties and a special interest charge.  There can be no assurance that we will be eligible to make such an election or that we will, in fact, make such an election for any given adjustment.  If we do not or are not able to make such an election, then (1) our then-current common unitholders, in the aggregate, could indirectly bear income tax liabilities in excess of the aggregate amount of taxes that would have been due had we elected the alternative procedure, and (2) a given common unitholder may indirectly bear taxes attributable to income allocable to other common unitholders or former common unitholders, including taxes (as well as interest and penalties) with respect to periods prior to such holder's ownership of common units.  Amounts available for distribution to our common unitholders may be reduced as a result of our obligation to pay any taxes associated with an adjustment.  Many issues and the overall effect of this new legislation on us are uncertain, and common unitholders should consult their own tax advisors regarding all aspects of this legislation as it affects their particular circumstances."
