[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in the Company's common stock involves risks. Stockholders should carefully consider the risks described below, together with other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making any purchase or sale decisions regarding the Company's common stock. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company's financial condition or operating results may be harmed. In that case, the trading price of the Company's common stock may decline, and stockholders may lose part or all of their investment in the Company's common stock.. A downturn in the local economy or in local real estate values could adversely impact profits. Most of the Bank's loans are secured by real estate and are made to borrowers in central and southern New Jersey and the surrounding areas. A downturn in the local economy or a decline in real estate values could increase the amount of non-performing loans and cause residential and commercial mortgage loans to become inadequately collateralized, which could expose the Bank to a greater risk of loss.. Hurricanes and other natural disasters, climate change or increases to flood insurance premiums could adversely affect asset quality and earnings. The Bank's trade area includes counties in New Jersey with extensive coastal regions. These areas may be vulnerable to flooding or other damage from future storms or hurricanes. This damage may be as bad as, or worse than, that suffered during Superstorm Sandy in 2012. Further storms like this, although rare, could negatively impact the Company's results of operations by disrupting operations, adversely impacting the ability of the Company's borrowers to repay their loans, damaging collateral or reducing the value of real estate used as collateral.. Increased emphasis on commercial lending may expose the Bank to increased lending risks. At December 31, 2017, $1.9 billion, or 48.9%, of the Bank's total loans consisted of commercial real estate, multi-family and land loans, and commercial and industrial loans. This portfolio has grown in recent years and the Bank intends to continue to emphasize these types of lending. These types of loans may expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one-to-four family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one-to-four family residential mortgage loans.. The long foreclosure timeline in New Jersey continues to adversely impact the Bank's recoveries on non-performing loans. The Judicial foreclosure process in New Jersey is protracted, which delays the Company's ability to resolve non-performing loans through the sale of the underlying collateral. The longer timelines were the result of the economic crisis, additional consumer protection initiatives related to the foreclosure process, increased documentary requirements and judicial scrutiny, and, both voluntary and mandatory programs under which lenders may consider loan modifications or other alternatives to foreclosure. These reasons, historical issues at the largest mortgage loan servicers, and the legal and regulatory responses have impacted the foreclosure process and completion time of foreclosures for residential mortgage lenders, which may result in a material adverse effect on collateral values and the Bank's ability to minimize its losses.. The Company has grown and may continue to grow through acquisitions. To be successful as a larger institution, the Company must successfully integrate the operations and retain the customers of acquired institutions, attract and retain the management required to successfully manage larger operations, and control costs. Since July 31, 2015, the Company has acquired Colonial American, Cape and Ocean Shore. On January 31, 2018, the Company acquired Sun Bancorp, Inc.. Future results of operations will depend in large part on the Company's ability to successfully integrate the operations of the acquired institutions and retain the customers of those institutions. If the Company is unable to successfully manage the integration of the separate cultures, customer bases and operating systems of the acquired institutions, and any other institutions that may be acquired in the future, the Company's results of operations may be adversely affected.. In addition, to successfully manage substantial growth, the Company may need to increase non-interest expenses through additional personnel, leasehold and data processing costs, among others. In order to successfully manage growth, the Company may need to adopt and effectively implement policies, procedures and controls to maintain credit quality, control costs and oversee the Company's operations. No assurance can be given that the Company will be successful in this strategy.. The Company may be challenged to successfully manage its business as a result of the strain on management and operations that may result from growth. The ability to manage growth will depend on its ability to continue to attract, hire and retain skilled employees.. 23. Success will also depend on the ability of officers and key employees to continue to implement and improve operational and other systems, to manage multiple, concurrent customer relationships and to hire, train and manage employees.. Finally, substantial growth may stress regulatory capital levels, and may require the Company to raise additional capital. No assurance can be given that the Company will be able to raise any required capital, or that it will be able to raise capital on terms that are beneficial to stockholders.. Future acquisition activity could dilute tangible book value. Both nationally and locally, the banking industry is undergoing consolidation marked by numerous mergers and acquisitions. From time-to-time the Company may be presented with opportunities to acquire institutions and/or bank branches which result in discussions and negotiations. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and trading values, and therefore, may result in the dilution of tangible book value per share.. The Dodd-Frank Act imposes obligations on originators of residential mortgage loans, such as the Bank. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act requires originators to make a reasonable and good faith determination based on documented information that a borrower has a reasonable ability to repay a particular mortgage loan over the long term. If the originator cannot meet this standard, the burden is on the lender to demonstrate the appropriateness of its policies and the strength of its controls. The Dodd-Frank Act contains an exception from this Ability-To-Repay rule for \"Qualified Mortgages.\" The rule sets forth specific underwriting criteria for a loan to qualify as a Qualified Mortgage.  If a loan meets these criteria and is not a \"higher priced loan\" as defined in FRB regulations, the CFPB rule establishes a safe harbor preventing a consumer from asserting the failure of the originator to establish the consumer's Ability-To-Repay. Additionally, conforming fixed-rate loans with a debt-to-income ratio greater than 43% would also qualify as an Ability-To-Repay Qualified Mortgage based upon an automated loan approval from one of the government sponsored mortgage entities. However, a consumer may assert the lender's failure to comply with the Ability-To-Repay rule for all residential mortgage loans other than Qualified Mortgages, and may challenge whether a loan actually met the criteria to be deemed an Ability-to-Pay Qualified Mortgage. These challenges have yet to be addressed by the courts.. Although the majority of residential mortgages historically originated by the Bank would be considered Qualified Mortgages, the Bank currently originates residential mortgage loans that do not qualify. As a result of the Ability-to-Repay rules, the Bank may experience loan losses, litigation related expenses and delays in taking title to real estate collateral in a foreclosure proceeding if these loans do not perform and borrowers challenge whether the Bank satisfied the Ability-To-Repay rule upon originating the loan.. The Bank's allowance for loan losses may be inadequate, which could hurt the Company's earnings. The Bank's allowance for loan losses may prove to be inadequate to cover actual loan losses and if the Bank is required to increase its allowance, current earnings may be reduced. The Bank provides for losses by reserving what it believes to be an adequate amount to absorb any probable incurred losses. A \"charge-off\" reduces the Bank's reserve for possible loan losses. If the Bank's reserves were insufficient, it would be required to record a larger reserve, which would reduce earnings for that period.. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect results of operations and financial condition. The Bank's ability to make a profit largely depends on net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. The interest income earned on interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities are generally fixed for a contractual period of time. Interest-bearing liabilities generally have shorter contractual maturities than interest-earning assets. This imbalance can create significant earnings volatility, because market interest rates change over time. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on interest-earning assets may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities.. In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and mortgage-backed securities. A reduction in interest rates causes increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed securities as borrowers refinance their debt to reduce their borrowing costs. This creates reinvestment risk, which is the risk that the Bank may not be able to reinvest the funds from faster prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates earned on the prepaid loans or mortgage-backed securities. Conversely, an increase in interest rates generally reduces prepayments. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans.. Changes in interest rates also affect the current estimated fair value of the interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. Unrealized net losses on securities available-for-sale are reported as a separate component of equity. To the extent interest rates increase and the value of the available-for-sale portfolio decreases, stockholders' equity will be adversely affected.. Changes in the estimated fair value of securities may reduce stockholders' equity and net income. At December 31, 2017, the Company maintained a securities portfolio of $854.3 million, of which $90.3 million was classified as available-for-sale. The estimated fair value of the available-for-sale securities portfolio may increase or decrease depending on the credit quality of the underlying issuer, market liquidity, changes in interest rates and other factors. Stockholders' equity is increased or decreased by the amount of the change in the unrealized gain or loss (difference between the estimated fair value and the amortized cost) of the available-for-sale securities portfolio, net of the related tax expense or benefit, under the category of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).. 24. Therefore, a decline in the estimated fair value of this portfolio will result in a decline in reported stockholders' equity, as well as book value per common share. The decrease will occur even though the securities are not sold.. The Company conducts a periodic review and evaluation of the complete securities portfolio to determine if the decline in the estimated fair value of any security below its cost basis is other-than-temporary. Factors which are considered in the analysis include, but are not limited to, the severity and duration of the decline in estimated fair value of the security, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, whether the decline appears to be related to issuer conditions or general market or industry conditions, the intent and ability to retain the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value and the likelihood of any near-term fair value recovery. If such decline is deemed to be other-than-temporary, the security is written down to a new cost basis and the resulting loss is charged to earnings as a component of non-interest income.. At December 31, 2017 the securities portfolio included corporate debt securities issued by national and regional banks in an unrealized loss position for greater than one year. The portfolio consisted of ten $5.0 million issues, two $2.5 million issues, two $1.5 million issues, and two $1.0 million issues spread among twelve issuers. At December 31, 2017, the securities in a loss position had a book value of $60.0 million and an estimated fair value of $56.1 million. At December 31, 2017, the Company determined that no other-than-temporary charge was required. However, the Company may be required to recognize an other-than-temporary impairment charge related to these securities if circumstances change.. The Bank may be required to repurchase mortgage loans for a breach of representations and warranties, which could harm the Company's earnings. The Company has entered into loan sale agreements with investors in the normal course of business. The loan sale agreements generally require the repurchase of certain loans previously sold in the event of a violation of various representations and warranties customary to the mortgage banking industry. FNMA, FHLMC and investors carefully examine loan documentation on delinquent loans for a possible reason to request a repurchase by the loan originator.  A subsequent sale of the repurchased mortgage loan or underlying collateral could typically be at a significant discount to the unpaid principal balance. The Company maintains a reserve for repurchased loans. However, if repurchase activity is greater than anticipated, the reserve may need to be increased to cover actual losses which could harm future earnings.. The Company and the Bank operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. The Company is subject to examination and regulation by the FRB. The Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC, its primary Federal regulator, and by the FDIC, as insurer of deposits. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on operations, the classification of assets and determination of the level of the allowance for loan losses. The laws and regulations that govern the Company and the Bank's operations are designed for the protection of depositors and the public, but not the Company's stockholders.. In July of 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was enacted. The Dodd-Frank Act is a broad legislative initiative that is significantly changing the bank regulatory structure and affecting the operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies.  In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act created the CFPB with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The CFPB has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit \"unfair, deceptive or abusive\" acts and practices.. The Dodd-Frank Act also directed the FRB to issue rules to limit debit-card interchange fees, (the fees that issuing banks charge merchants each time a consumer uses a debit card) collected by banks with assets of $10 billion or more. Although the Bank is exempt from this rule, market forces in future periods may result in reduced fees charged by all issuers, regardless of asset size, which may result in reduced revenues for the Bank. For the year ended December 31, 2017, the Bank's revenues from interchange fees were $6.3 million, an increase of $2.0 million from 2016. See \"Regulation and Supervision, General, The Dodd-Frank Act.\". In July 2013 the FDIC and the other Federal bank regulatory agencies issued a final rule that revised their leverage and risk-based capital requirements and the method for calculating risk-weighted assets to make them consistent with agreements that were reached by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. See \"Regulation and Supervision, General, The Dodd-Frank Act.\". The USA Patriot and Bank Secrecy Acts require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering, terrorist financing and other illicit activities. If such activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury's Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or sanctions. Although the Bank has developed policies and procedures designated to comply with these laws and regulations, these policies and procedures may not be totally effective in preventing violations of these laws and regulations.. 25. These provisions, as well as any other aspects of current or proposed regulatory or legislative changes to laws applicable to the financial industry, may impact the profitability of the Company's business activities and may change certain business practices, including the ability to offer new products, obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfactory interest spreads, and could expose the Company to additional costs, including increased compliance costs. These changes also may require the Company to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes to operations in order to comply, and could therefore also materially and adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. There is no guaranty that the Company will be able to continue to pay a dividend or, if continued, will be able to pay a dividend at the current rate. The Board of Directors of the Company determines at its discretion if, when and the amount of dividends that may be paid on the common stock. In making such determination under the Company's capital management plan, the Board of Directors takes into account various factors including economic conditions, earnings, liquidity needs, the financial condition of the Company, applicable state law, regulatory requirements and other factors deemed relevant by the Board of Directors. Although the Company has a history of paying a quarterly dividend on its common stock, there is no guaranty that such dividends will continue to be paid in the future or at what rate.. Competition from other banks, financial institutions, government-sponsored entities and emerging technological providers in originating loans, attracting deposits and providing various financial services may adversely affect profitability and liquidity. The Company has substantial competition in originating loans, both commercial and consumer, in its market area. This competition comes principally from other banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking companies and other lenders. Many of these competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources and access to capital, stronger regulatory ratios and higher lending limits, a wider geographic presence, more accessible branch office locations, the ability to offer a wider array of services or more favorable pricing alternatives, as well as lower origination and operating costs. In addition, rapid technological changes and consumer preferences may result in increased competition for the Bank's services. Increased competition could reduce the Company's net income by decreasing the number and size of loans that the Bank originates and the interest rates charged on these loans.. In attracting consumer, business and public fund deposits, the Company faces substantial competition from other insured depository institutions such as banks, savings institutions and credit unions, as well as institutions offering uninsured investment alternatives, including money market funds. Many of its competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources and access to capital, stronger regulatory ratios, stronger asset quality and performance, more aggressive marketing campaigns, better brand recognition and more branch locations. These competitors may offer higher interest rates than the Company, which could decrease the deposits that the Company attracts or require the Company to increase its rates to retain existing deposits or attract new deposits.. In addition, rapid technological changes and consumer preferences may result in increased competition for the Company's other services. A number of well-funded technology focused companies are innovating the payments, distributed ledger, and cryptocurrency networks and are attempting to disintermediate portions of the traditional banking model. A shift in the mix of payment forms away from the Company's products and services could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position and results of operations.. The Company has also been active in competing for New Jersey governmental and municipal deposits. At December 31, 2017, governmental and municipal deposits accounted for approximately 30% of the Company's total deposits. The newly elected governor of New Jersey has proposed that the state form and own a bank in which governmental and municipal entities may deposit their excess funds, with the state owned bank then financing small businesses and municipal projects in New Jersey. Although this proposal is in the very early stages, should this proposal be adopted and a state owned bank formed, it could impede the Company's ability to attract and retain governmental and municipal deposits and financing opportunities.. Increased deposit competition could adversely affect the Company's ability to generate the funds necessary for lending operations. As a result, the Company may need to seek other sources of funds that may be more expensive to obtain which could increase the cost of funds. Public fund deposits from local government entities such as counties, townships, school districts and other municipalities generally have higher average balances and the Bank's inability to retain such funds could adversely affect liquidity or result in the use of higher-cost funding sources.. Over the past few years, the FRB has been a consistently large purchaser of U.S. Treasury and GSE-backed mortgage-backed securities. The Bank has also faced increased competition for mortgage loans due to the unprecedented involvement of the GSEs in the mortgage market as a result of the economic crisis. The actions of the FRB and the GSEs have caused the interest rate for 30-year fixed-rate mortgage loans that conform to GSE guidelines to remain artificially low. As a result of these factors, it may be difficult for the Bank to originate mortgage loans and grow the residential mortgage loan portfolio, which could have a materially adverse impact on the Bank's earnings.. The Company's inability to tailor its retail delivery model to respond to consumer preferences in banking may negatively affect earnings. The Bank has expanded its market presence through de novo branching and acquisitions. The branch continues to be a very. 26. significant source of new business generation, however, consumers continue to migrate much of their routine banking to self-service channels. In recognition of this shift in consumer patterns, the Bank has undertaken a comprehensive review of its branch network, resulting in branch consolidation accompanied by the enhancement of the Bank's capabilities to serve its customers through channels other than branches. The benefits of this strategy are dependent on the Bank's ability to realize expected expense reductions without experiencing significant customer attrition.. The Company must continue to attract and retain qualified personnel and maintain cost controls and asset quality. The Company's ability to manage growth successfully will depend on its ability to continue to attract and retain management and loan officers experienced in banking and financial services and familiar with the communities in its market area. The unexpected loss of service of any key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could adversely affect the Company. If the Company grows too quickly and is not able to attract qualified personnel and maintain cost controls and asset quality, this continued growth could adversely affect the Company.. Risks associated with system failures, interruptions, or breaches of security could disrupt businesses, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage the reputation of, and create significant financial and legal exposure for the Company. Information technology systems are critical to the Company's business. Various systems are used to manage customer relationships, including deposits and loans, general ledger and securities investments.. Although the Company devotes significant resources to maintain and regularly upgrade its systems and processes that are designed to protect the security of the Company's computer systems, software, networks and other technology assets and the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information belonging to the Company and its customers, there is no assurance that all of the Company's security measures will provide absolute security. This risk is evidenced by recent events where financial institutions and companies engaged in data processing have reported breaches in the security of their websites or other systems, some of which have involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information, destroy data, disrupt or degrade service, sabotage systems or cause other damage, often through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, cyberattacks, ransomware and other means. Additionally, there is the risk of distributed denial-of-service or other similar attacks from technically sophisticated and well-resourced third parties which are intended to disrupt online services, as well as data breaches due to cyberattacks which result in unauthorized access to customer data. Despite the Company's efforts to ensure the integrity of its systems, it is possible that the Company may not be able to anticipate or to implement effective preventive measures against all security breaches of these types, especially because the techniques used change frequently or are not recognized until launched, and because cyberattacks can originate from a wide variety of sources, including third parties outside the Company such as persons who are involved with organized crime or associated with external service providers or who may be linked to terrorist organizations or hostile foreign governments, often with seemingly limitless resources. Those parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers or other users of the Company's systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to the Company's data or that of its customers or clients. These risks may increase in the future as the Company continues to increase its mobile and other internet-based product offerings and systems.. In addition, a majority of data processing is outsourced to certain third-party providers. If these third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if there is difficulty communicating with them, the ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and business operations could be adversely affected. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various vendors and their personnel. Breaches of security may occur through intentional or unintentional acts by those having authorized or unauthorized access to the Company's confidential or other information or the confidential or other information of the Company's customers, clients or counterparties. While management regularly reviews security assessments that were conducted on the Company's third party service providers that have access to sensitive and confidential information, there can be no assurance that their information security protocols are sufficient to withstand a cyber-attack or other security breach.. The occurrence of any system failures, interruption, or breach of security of the Company's or its vendors' systems could cause serious negative consequences for the Company, including significant disruption of the Company's operations, misappropriation of confidential information of the Company or that of its customers, or damage to computers or systems of the Company and those of its customers and counterparties, and could result in violations of applicable privacy and other laws, financial loss to the Company or to its customers, loss of confidence in the Company's security measures, customer dissatisfaction, significant litigation exposure, and harm to the Company's reputation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company.. The Company may incur impairments to goodwill. At December 31, 2017, the Bank had $150.5 million in goodwill which is evaluated for impairment, at least annually. Significant negative industry or economic trends, including declines in the market price the Company's stock, reduced estimates of future cash flows or business disruptions could result in impairments to goodwill. The valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely on projections of future operating performance. The Company operates in competitive environments and projections of future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from actual results. If the analysis results in impairment. 27. to goodwill, an impairment charge to earnings would be recorded in the financial statements during the period in which such impairment is determined to exist. Any such charge could have an adverse effect on the results of operations.. The Company may be adversely affected by recent changes in U.S. tax laws. Changes in tax laws contained in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, enacted in December 2017, include a number of provisions that will have an impact on the banking industry, borrowers and the market for single-family residential real estate. Changes include (i) a lower limit on the deductibility of mortgage interest on single-family residential mortgage loans, (ii) the elimination of interest deductions for home equity loans, (iii) a limitation on the deductibility of business interest expense and (iv) a limitation on the deductibility of property taxes and state and local income taxes.. The recent changes in the tax laws may have an adverse effect on the market for, and valuation of, residential properties, and on the demand for such loans in the future, and could make it harder for borrowers to make their loan payments. In addition, these recent changes may also have a disproportionate effect on taxpayers in states with high residential home prices and high state and local taxes, such as New Jersey. If home ownership becomes less attractive, demand for mortgage loans could decrease. The value of the properties securing loans in the loan portfolio may be adversely impacted as a result of the changing economics of home ownership, which could require an increase in the provision for loan losses, which would reduce profitability and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve Board could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to being affected by general economic conditions, the Company's earnings and growth are affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve Board. An important function of the Federal Reserve Board is to regulate the money supply and credit conditions. Among the instruments used by the Federal Reserve Board to implement these objectives are open market purchases and sales of U.S. government securities, adjustments of the discount rate and changes in banks' reserve requirements against bank deposits. These instruments are used in varying combinations to influence overall economic growth and the distribution of credit, bank loans, investments and deposits. Their use also affects interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits.. The monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve Board have had a significant effect on the operating results of financial institutions in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. The effects of such policies upon the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations cannot be predicted.. The Company is subject to the Community Reinvestment Act (\"CRA\") and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to material penalties. The CRA, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act and other fair lending laws and regulations impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. A successful regulatory challenge to an institution's performance under the CRA or fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including the required payment of damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, imposition of restrictions on mergers and acquisitions activity and restrictions on expansion. Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution's performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation. Such actions could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Federal Reserve Board may require the Company to commit capital resources to support the Bank. Federal law requires that a holding company act as a source of financial and managerial strength to its subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support such subsidiary bank. Under the \"source of strength\" doctrine, the Federal Reserve Board may require a holding company to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary bank and may charge the holding company with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices for failure to commit resources to a subsidiary bank. A capital injection may be required at times when the holding company may not have the resources to provide it and therefore may require the holding company to borrow the funds or raise capital. Any loans by a holding company to its subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. In the event of a holding company's bankruptcy, the bankruptcy trustee will assume any commitment by the holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank. Moreover, bankruptcy law provides that claims based on any such commitment will be entitled to a priority of payment over the claims of the institution's general unsecured creditors, including the holders of its note obligations. Thus, any borrowing that must be done by the Company to make a required capital injection becomes more difficult and expensive and could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in card network fees could impact the Company's operations. From time to time, the card networks increase the fees (known as interchange fees) that they charge to acquirers and that the Bank charges its merchants. It is possible that competitive pressures will result in the Bank absorbing a portion of such increases in the future, which would increase costs, reduce profit margin and adversely affect the Company's business and financial condition. In addition, the card networks require certain capital requirements. An increase in the required capital level would further limit the Company's use of capital for other purposes.. 28. Changes in card network rules or standards could adversely affect the Company's business. In order to provide debit card and cash management solutions, the Company is a member of the Visa network. Subsequent to the acquisition of Sun on January 31, 2018, the Company also became a member of the MasterCard network. As such, the Company is subject to card network rules resulting in a variety of fines or penalties that may be assessed on the Company. The termination of membership or any changes in card network rules or standards, including interpretation and implementation of existing rules or standards, could increase the cost of operating merchant servicer business or limit the ability to provide debit card and cash management solutions to or through customers, and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company will be subject to heightened regulatory requirements if total assets exceed $10 billion. The Company's total assets were $5.4 billion at December 31, 2017 and $7.5 billion at January 31, 2018 after closing on the Sun acquisition. Banks with assets in excess of $10 billion are subject to requirements imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations, including: the examination authority of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to assess compliance with Federal consumer financial laws, imposition of higher FDIC premiums, reduced debit card interchange fees, enhanced risk management frameworks and stress testing, all of which increase operating costs and reduce earnings.. As the Company approaches $10 billion in total consolidated assets, additional costs have been incurred to prepare for the implementation of these imposed requirements. The Company may be required to invest more significant management attention and resources to evaluate and continue to make any changes necessary to comply with the new statutory and regulatory requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act. Further, Federal financial regulators may require accelerated actions and investments to prepare for compliance before $10 billion in total consolidated assets is exceeded, and may suspend or delay certain regulatory actions, such as approving a merger agreement, if preparations are deemed inadequate. Upon reaching this threshold, the Company faces the risk of failing to meet these requirements, which may negatively impact results of operations and financial condition. While the effect of any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have is unpredictable, these changes could be materially adverse to the Company's investors."
