[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following factors, in addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in evaluating our company and our business. Our business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks. The material risks are described below and should be carefully considered in evaluating Odyssey or any investment decision relating to our securities. This section is intended only as a summary of the principal risks. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or operating results could suffer. If this occurs, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our common stock.. Our business involves a high degree of risk.. With respect to mineral exploration projects, there are uncertainties with respect to the quality and quantity of the material and their economic feasibility, the price we can obtain for the sale of the deposit or the ore extracted from the deposit, the granting of the necessary permits to operate, environmental safety, technology for extraction and processing, distribution of the eventual ore product, and funding of necessary equipment and facilities. In projects where Odyssey takes a minority ownership position in the company holding the mining rights, there may be uncertainty as to this company's ability to move the project forward. An investment in Odyssey is extremely speculative and of exceptionally high risk. The quality and reliability of research and data obtained could be uncertain. Even if we are able to plan and obtain permits for our various projects, there is a possibility that the shipwrecks may have already been salvaged or may not be found, or may not have had anything valuable on board at the time of the sinking. Even if objects of value are located and recovered, there is the possibility that the recovery cost will exceed the value of the objects recovered or that others, including both private parties and governmental entities, will assert conflicting claims and challenge our rights to the recovered objects. Finally, even if we are successful in locating and retrieving objects from a shipwreck and establishing title to them, there are no assurances as to the value that such objects will bring at their sale, as the market for such objects is uncertain. Depending on the type of cargo recovered, maximizing the value of the cargo may necessitate an extended sales cycle to convert the cargo into cash. Starting on December 10, 2015, the majority of future work by us on shipwreck projects will be done as a contractor to another party. This will limit the upside for us on such projects. The contracting party may encounter many of the same risks listed above with respect to obtaining permits, retaining ownership of any recovered cargo, and monetizing the cargo. As a contractor, we are also dependent on the contracting party's ability to commence the project in a timely manner and to pay our invoices.. The research and data we use may not be reliable.. The success of a shipwreck project is dependent to a substantial degree upon the research and data we or the contracting party have obtained. By its very nature, research and data regarding shipwrecks can be imprecise, incomplete, outdated, and unreliable. It is often composed of or affected by numerous assumptions, rumors, legends, historical and scientific inaccuracies and misinterpretations which have become a part of such research and data over time. For mineral exploration, data is collected based on a sampling technique and available data may not be representative of the entire ore body or tenement area. Prior to conducting off-shore exploration, we typically conduct on-shore research. There is no guarantee that the models and research conducted on-shore will be representative of actual results on the seafloor. Off-shore exploration typically requires significant expenditures, with no guarantee that the results will be useful or financially rewarding.. Operations may be affected by natural hazards.. Underwater exploration and recovery operations are inherently difficult and dangerous and may be delayed or suspended by weather, sea conditions or other natural hazards. Further, such operations may be undertaken more safely during certain months of the year than others. We cannot guarantee that we, or the entities we are affiliated with, will be able. 6. Table of Contents. to conduct search and recovery operations during favorable periods. In addition, even though sea conditions in a particular search location may be somewhat predictable, the possibility exists that unexpected conditions may occur that adversely affect our operations. It is also possible that natural hazards may prevent or significantly delay search and recovery operations. Seabed mineral extraction work may be subject to interruptions resulting from storms that impact the extraction operations or the ports of delivery.. We may be unable to establish our rights to resources or items we discover or recover.. Persons and entities other than Odyssey and entities we are affiliated with (both private and governmental) may claim title to the shipwrecks and/or valuable cargo that we may recover. Even if we are successful in locating and recovering shipwrecks and/or valuable cargo, we or our client may not be able to establish our rights to property recovered if challenged by governmental entities, prior owners, or other attempted salvors claiming an interest therein. In such an event we may not receive our share of anticipated proceeds although we would still be paid for our work when conducting operations for a client. We may discover potentially valuable seabed mineral deposits, but we may be unable to get title to the deposits or get the necessary governmental permits to commercially extract the minerals. Shipwrecks or mineral deposits may be in controlled waters where the policies and laws of a certain government may change abruptly, thereby impacting our ability to operate in those zones.. The market for any objects or minerals we recover is uncertain.. Even if valuable items can be located and recovered in the future, it is difficult to predict the price that might be realized for such items. The value of certain recovered items will fluctuate with the precious metals market, which has been highly volatile in past years. In addition, the entrance on the market of a large supply of similar items from shipwrecks and/or valuable cargo located and recovered by others could depress the market. During the time between the date a mineral deposit is discovered and the date the first extracted minerals are sold, world and local prices for the mineral may fluctuate drastically and thereby change the economics of the mineral project.. We could experience delays in the disposition or sale of recovered objects or minerals.. The methods and channels that may be used in the disposition or sale of recovered items are uncertain at present and may include several alternatives. Ready access to buyers for valuable items recovered cannot be guaranteed. Delays in the disposition of such items could adversely affect the profitability of projects or cash flow. It may take significant time between the date a mineral deposit is discovered and the date the first extracted minerals are sold. Stakes in the mineral deposits can potentially be sold at an earlier date, but there is no guarantee that there will be readily available buyers at favorable competitive prices.. Legal, political or civil issues could interfere with our marine operations.. Legal, political or civil issues of governments throughout the world could restrict access to our operational marine sites or interfere with our marine operations or rights to seabed mineral deposits. In many countries, the legislation covering ocean exploration lacks clarity. As a result, when we are conducting projects in certain areas of the world for our own account or on our behalf of a contracting party, we may be subjected to unexpected delays, requests, and outcomes as it works with local governments to define and obtain the necessary permits and to assert its claims over assets on the seafloor bottom. Our vessel, equipment, personnel and or cargo could be seized or detained by government authorities. We may have to work with different units of a government, and there may be a change of government representatives over time. This may result in unexpected changes or interpretations in government contracts and legislation.. Objects we recover could be stolen from us.. If we locate a shipwreck and assert a valid claim to items of value on our behalf or other behalf of a contracting party, there is a risk of theft of such items at sea by \"pirates\" or poachers before or after the recovery or while in transit to a safe destination as well as when stored in a secured location. Such thefts may not be adequately covered by insurance.. We may be unable to get permission to conduct salvage operations, conduct exploration, or perform extraction operations.. It is possible we will not be successful in obtaining title or permission to excavate certain wrecks, conduct exploration work, or conduct extraction operations. In addition, permits that are sought for the projects may never be issued, and if issued, may be revoked or not honored by the entities that issued them. In addition, certain governments may develop new permit requirements that could delay new operations or interrupt existing operations.. 7. Table of Contents. Changes in our business strategy or restructuring of our businesses may increase our costs or otherwise affect the profitability of our businesses.. As changes in our business environment occur, we may need to adjust our business strategies to meet these changes or we may otherwise find it necessary to restructure our operations or particular businesses or assets. When these changes or events occur, we may incur costs to change our business strategy and may need to write down the value of assets or sell certain assets. In any of these events our costs may increase, and we may have significant charges associated with the write-down of assets. Discontinuing the use of a multi-year charter of a ship may result in large one-time costs to cover any penalties or charges to put the ship back into its original condition. In December 2015, we sold our shipwreck-related assets in an agreement which will limit our up-side on certain future shipwrecks and limit our ability to conduct new shipwreck projects.. We may be unsuccessful in raising the necessary capital to fund operations and capital expenditures.. Our ability to generate cash inflows is dependent upon our ability to recover and monetize high-value shipwrecks, large quantities of minerals or mineral rights or chartering or leasing marine exploration vessels or equipment. However, we cannot guarantee that the sales of our products and other available cash sources will generate sufficient cash inflows to meet our overall cash requirements. If cash inflows are not sufficient to meet our business requirements, we will be required to raise additional capital through other financing activities. While we have been successful in raising the necessary funds in the past, there can be no assurance we can continue to do so in the future.. We depend on key employees and face competition in hiring and retaining qualified employees.. Our employees are vital to our success, and our key management and other employees are difficult to replace. We currently do not have employment contracts with the majority of our key employees. We may not be able to retain highly qualified employees in the future which could adversely affect our business.. We may continue to experience significant losses from operations.. We have experienced a net loss in every fiscal year since our inception except for 2004. Our net losses were $7.8 million in 2017, $6.3 million in 2016 and $18.2 million in 2015. Even if we do generate operating income in one or more quarters in the future, subsequent developments in our industry, customer base, business or cost structure or an event such as significant litigation or a significant transaction may cause us to again experience operating losses. We may not become profitable for the long-term, or even for any quarter.. Technological obsolescence of our marine assets or failure of critical equipment could put a strain on our capital requirements or operational capabilities.. We employ state-of-the-art technology including side-scan sonar, magnetometer, ROVs, and other advanced science and technology to locate and recover shipwrecks at depths previously unreachable and perform seabed mineral exploration in an economically feasible manner. Although we try to maintain back-ups on critical equipment and components, equipment failures may require us to delay or suspend operations. Also, while we endeavor to keep marine equipment in excellent working condition and current with all available upgrades, technological advances in new equipment may provide superior efficiencies compared to the capabilities of our existing equipment, and this could require us to purchase new equipment which would require additional capital.. We may not be able to contract with clients or customers for marine services or syndicated projects.. In the past, from time to time, we have earned revenue by chartering out vessels, equipment and crew and providing marine services to clients or customers. Even if we do contract out our services, the revenue may or may not be sufficient to cover administrative overhead costs. While the operational results of these syndicated projects are generally successful, the clients or customers may not be willing or financially able to continue with syndicated projects of this type in the future. Failure to secure such revenue producing contracts in the future may have a material impact on our revenue and operating cash flows. We may take payment for these services in the form of cash, shares in the client's company, or a financial interest in the tenement areas. There is no guarantee that the non-cash payment for our services will ever be able to be monetized or be used by Odyssey.. 8. Table of Contents. The issuance of shares at conversion prices lower than the market price at the time of conversion and the sale of such shares could adversely affect the price of our common stock.. Some of our outstanding shares may have been acquired from time to time upon conversion of convertible notes at conversion prices that are lower than the market price of our common stock at the time of conversion. In the past, Odyssey has issued debt obligations that could be converted into common shares at prices below the market price. Conversion of the notes at conversion prices that are lower than the market price at the time of conversion and the sale of the shares issued upon conversion could have an adverse effect upon the market price of our common stock.. Investments in subsea mineral exploration companies may prove unsuccessful.. We have invested in marine mineral companies that to date are still in the exploration phase and have not begun to earn revenue from operations. We may or may not have control or input on the future development of these businesses. There can be no assurance that these companies will achieve profitability or otherwise be successful in capitalizing on the mineralized materials they intend to exploit.. We may be subject to short selling strategies.. Short sellers of our stock may be manipulative and may attempt to drive down the market price of our common stock. Short selling is the practice of selling securities that the seller does not own but rather has, supposedly, borrowed from a third party with the intention of buying identical securities back at a later date to return to the lender. The short seller hopes to profit from a decline in the value of the securities between the sale of the borrowed securities and the purchase of the replacement shares, as the short seller expects to pay less in that purchase than it received in the sale. As it is therefore in the short seller's best interests for the price of the stock to decline, many short sellers (sometime known as \"disclosed shorts\") publish, or arrange for the publication of, negative opinions regarding the relevant issuer and its business prospects to create negative market momentum and generate profits for themselves after selling a stock short. Although traditionally these disclosed shorts were limited in their ability to access mainstream business media or to otherwise create negative market rumors, the rise of the Internet and technological advancements regarding document creation, videotaping and publication by weblog (\"blogging\") have allowed many disclosed shorts to publicly attack a company's credibility, strategy and veracity by means of so-called \"research reports\" that mimic the type of investment analysis performed by large Wall Street firms and independent research analysts. These short attacks have, in the past, led to selling of shares in the market, on occasion in large scale and broad base. Issuers who have limited trading volumes and are susceptible to higher volatility levels than large-cap stocks, can be particularly vulnerable to such short seller attacks. These short seller publications are not regulated by any governmental, self-regulatory organization or other official authority in the U.S., are not subject to certification requirements imposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission and, accordingly, the opinions they express may be based on distortions or omissions of actual facts or, in some cases, fabrications of facts. In light of the limited risks involved in publishing such information, and the enormous profit that can be made from running just one successful short attack, unless the short sellers become subject to significant penalties, it is more likely than not that disclosed short sellers will continue to issue such reports.. Some of our equipment or assets could be seized or we may be forced to sell certain assets. We have pledged certain assets, such as equipment and shares of subsidiaries, as collateral under our loan agreements. Some suppliers have the ability to seize some of our assets if we do not make timely payments for the services, supplies, or equipment that they have provided to us. If we were unable to make payments on these obligations, the lender or supplier may seize the asset or force the sale of the asset. The loss of such assets could interrupt our operations. The sale of the asset may be done in a manner and under circumstances that do not provide the highest cash value for the sale of the asset.. We could be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market.. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, which imposes, among other requirements, a minimum bid requirement. The closing bid price for our common stock must remain at or above $1.00 per share to comply with NASDAQ's minimum bid requirement for continued listing. If the closing bid price for our common stock is less than $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days, NASDAQ may send us a notice stating we will be provided a period of 180 days to regain compliance with the minimum bid requirement or else NASDAQ may make a determination to delist our common stock.. 9. Table of Contents. Another requirement for continued listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market is to maintain our market capitalization above $35.0 million. On November 14, 2017 we received communication from NASDAQ notifying us our market capitalization had been below the minimum of $35.0 million for 30 consecutive days. Accordingly, NASDAQ provided us a period of 180 calendar days, until May 14, 2018, to regain compliance. We regained compliance March 7, 2018. The is no guaranty a $35.0 million market capitalization can be maintained.. Failure by the company to maintain compliance with the above-mentioned and other NASDAQ continued listing requirements may lead to the delisting of the company from the NASDAQ Capital Market. Delisting from the NASDAQ Capital Market could make trading our common stock more difficult for investors, potentially leading to declines in our share price and liquidity. If our common stock is delisted by NASDAQ, our common stock may be eligible to trade on an over-the-counter quotation system, where an investor may find it more difficult to sell our stock or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock. We cannot assure you that our common stock, if delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market, will be listed on another national securities exchange or quoted on an over-the counter quotation system.. Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all of our business risks.. Although we seek to obtain insurance for some of our main operational risks, there is no guarantee that the insurance policies that we have are sufficient, that they will be in place when needed, that we will be able to obtain insurance coverage when desired, that insurance will be available on commercially attractive terms, or that we will be able to anticipate the risks that need to be insured. For example, although we may be able to obtain War Risk coverage for a project at a specific date and location, such insurance may be unavailable at other times and locations. Although we may be able to insure our marine assets for certain risks such as certain possible loss or damage scenarios, we may lack insurance to cover against government seizure or detention of our certain marine assets. Permanent loss or temporary loss of our marine assets and the associated business interruption without commensurate compensation from an insurance policy could severely impact the financial results and operational capabilities of the company.. We may be exposed to cyber security risks.. We depend on information technology networks and systems to process, transmit and store electronic information and to communicate among our locations around the world and among ourselves within our company. Additionally, one of our significant responsibilities is to maintain the security and privacy of our confidential and proprietary information and the personal data of our employees. Our information systems, and those of our service and support providers, are vulnerable to an increasing threat of continually evolving cybersecurity risks. Computer viruses, hackers and other external hazards, as well as improper or inadvertent staff behavior could expose confidential company and personal data systems and information to security breaches. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or cause system interruption change frequently and may not immediately produce signs of intrusion. As a result, we may be unable to anticipate these incidents or techniques, timely discover them, or implement adequate preventative measures. With respect to our commercial arrangements with service and support providers, we have processes designed to require third-party IT outsourcing, offsite storage and other vendors to agree to maintain certain standards with respect to the storage, protection and transfer of confidential, personal and proprietary information. However, we remain at risk of a data breach due to the intentional or unintentional non-compliance by a vendor's employee or agent, the breakdown of a vendor's data protection processes, or a cyber-attack on a vendor's information systems or our information systems."
