[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our securities involves a number of significant risks. In addition to the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, you should consider the following information before making an investment in our securities. The risks set forth below are not the only risks we face, and we face other risks which we have not yet identified, which we do not currently deem material or which are not yet predictable. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, our net asset value and the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Investments. Our investment in OCI Holdings, LLC (\"OCI\") remains subject to risks resulting from Medicare reimbursement rate reductions in the state of Texas that have had a negative impact on OCI's earnings and cash flow.. OCI's business as a home health provider of pediatric services to Medicaid patients in Texas has been negatively impacted by Medicaid reimbursement rate reductions implemented by the state of Texas effective December 15, 2016. Even prior to the implementation of these reductions, OCI experienced pressures on rates in certain parts of their business and reductions in visit volumes. In May, the Texas Legislature agreed to the 2018/2019 biennium budget. The new budget, which went into effect on September 1, 2017, restored approximately 25% of the rate cuts subject to a number of specific provisions relating to pediatric therapy reimbursement. OCI management continues to address its cost base and pursue operating initiatives to best position itself for success in the new rate reimbursement environment. As part of the effort to navigate the challenging rate environment, as posted on its website in January 2018, OCI was selected by Superior Healthplan, a nationally recognized Healthcare Maintenance Organization, for a value-based arrangement utilizing its clinical resources and extensive independent research experience. However, there can be no assurance that such developments will positively impact our investments in OCI. As of December 31, 2017, our investments in OCI represent 21.4% of our total investment portfolio including cash and cash equivalents. For the year ended December 31, 2017, investment income related to our investments in OCI represented 38.2% of total investment income.. In connection with certain bankruptcy proceedings, Bennu Oil & Gas, LLC, the successor in title to ATP Oil & Gas Corporation (\"Bennu\") shut down production on the Titan Production Facility (\"Titan\") for production with respect to the Telemark field in which we have a limited term royalty interest (\"ORRI\") and shut-in all related wells (to the extent such wells were still producing). As a result, production payments on our ORRI have ceased. The Telemark leases and our ORRI are dependent on continued production from the Telemark field. As a result of Bennu's Chapter 7 bankruptcy, it is unclear whether production will continue. Even if production payments do resume, we are still unlikely to recover our full investment in the ORRIs. In addition, certain amounts received by us with respect to the ORRIs remain subject to disgorgement in connection with the ATP litigation, which may adversely affect both our recovery, if any, and our expected return.. In 2011 and 2012, we purchased from ATP Oil & Gas Corporation, predecessor in title to Bennu, limited-term ORRIs in certain offshore oil and gas producing properties operated by Bennu in the Gulf of Mexico. Under this arrangement, we purchased the right to portions (ranging from 5.0% to 10.8%) of the monthly production proceeds from oil and gas properties known as the Gomez and Telemark properties. The terms of the ORRIs provide that they will terminate after we receive payments that equal our investment in the ORRIs plus a time-value factor that is calculated at a rate of 13.2% per annum.. On November 30, 2016, Bennu filed bankruptcy under Chapter 7 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Bennu is the ultimate parent of Titan, the owner of the floating production platform in the Gulf of Mexico utilized by Bennu for production with respect to the Telemark field in which we have an ORRI. Titan went into involuntary Chapter 11 bankruptcy in September. 10. 2016. In November 2016, Bennu shut down production on the Titan platform and shut-in all related wells in anticipation of the Chapter 7 bankruptcy filing. While production continued for the month of October 2016 and a portion of November 2016, we received payments with respect to those months in July and August 2017. Our ORRI is dependent on continued production from the Telemark field. By law, the leases on the Telemark field will expire 180 days from the date of last production unless production is resumed or a party requests and the government grants a deferral of the requirement to produce. On August 17, 2017, the Trustee filed a motion to authorize a sale of certain assets including MC 941 and MC 942 to Statoil USA E&P, Inc., or Statoil, [Bankr. Dkt. No. 179] for $0.5 million and the assumption of the decommissioning obligations related to those leases that were owed by Bennu Oil & Gas to the United States of America. The Court authorized the sale by order entered on September 14, 2017 [Bankr. Dkt. No. 187]. It is possible that Statoil will resume oil and gas production from one or more wells on the MC 941 and MC 942 leases. Statoil has requested we sign a division order confirming our proportional ownership of produced hydrocarbons. If production resumes, the Company currently expects that Statoil will distribute to us monthly royalty payments due under the ORRIs during the period that production occurs. Even if production payments do resume, we are still unlikely to recover our full investment in the ORRIs.. Please refer to \"Item 3. Legal Proceedings\" for further discussion of the ATP bankruptcy litigation. As of December 31, 2017, our unrecovered investment was $35.7 million, and we had received aggregate production payments of $37.8 million since the date of ATP's bankruptcy filing. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, we had incurred legal and consulting fees totaling $6.3 million in connection with the enforcement of our rights under the ORRIs, $5.4 million of which has been added to the unrecovered investment balance under the terms of the ORRI agreements.. Disruption and instability in U.S. or global capital markets could materially and adversely affect our business.. The U.S. and global capital markets experienced extreme volatility and disruption during the economic downturn that began in mid-2007, and the U.S. economy was in a recession for several consecutive calendar quarters during the same period. In 2010, a financial crisis emerged in Europe, triggered by high budget deficits and rising direct and contingent sovereign debt, which created concerns about the ability of certain nations to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations. More recently, the implications of the United Kingdom's referendum decision to the European Union (\"Brexit\") and the policies of the current U.S. presidential administration remain unclear. These market and economic disruptions affected, and these and other similar market and economic disruptions may in the future affect, the U.S. capital markets, which could adversely affect our business and that of our portfolio companies, and have reduced the availability of debt and equity capital for the market as a whole and to financial firms, in particular. At various times, these disruptions resulted in, and may in the future result in, increased spreads between the yields realized on riskier debt securities and those realized on securities perceived to be risk-free, a lack of liquidity in parts of the debt capital markets, significant write-offs in the financial services sector and the repricing of credit risk. These conditions may reoccur for a prolonged period of time again or materially worsen in the future, including as a result of U.S. government shutdowns or further downgrades to the U.S. government's sovereign credit rating or the perceived credit worthiness of the United States or other large global economies. Unfavorable economic conditions, including future recessions, also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. We may in the future have difficulty accessing debt and equity capital on attractive terms, or at all, and a severe disruption and instability in the global financial markets or deteriorations in credit and financing conditions may cause us to reduce the volume of loans we originate and/or fund, adversely affect the value of our portfolio investments or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our investments are risky and highly speculative.. We invest primarily in senior and junior secured, unsecured and subordinated loans of U.S. private and public middle market companies. However, we may also invest in equity, distressed debt and other assets.. Senior Secured Loans.  When we make a senior secured debt investment in a portfolio company, we generally take a security interest in the available assets of the portfolio company, including the equity interests of its subsidiaries, which we expect to help mitigate the risk that we will not be repaid. However, there is a risk that the collateral securing our investment may decrease in value over time, may be difficult to sell in a timely manner, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based upon the success of the business and market conditions, including as a result of the inability of the portfolio company to raise additional capital. In some circumstances, our lien could be subordinated to claims of other creditors. In addition, deterioration in a portfolio company's financial condition and prospects, including its inability to raise additional capital, may be accompanied by deterioration in the value of the collateral for the loan. Consequently, the fact that an investment is secured does not guarantee that we will receive principal and interest payments according to the contractual terms, or at all, or that we will be able to collect on the investment should we enforce our remedies.. 11. Junior Secured Debt.  Junior secured debt investments are secured debt investments (including second lien loans) that rank after senior secured debt in priority of payment. As other creditors may rank senior to any junior secured debt held by us in the event of insolvency, junior secured debt may have an above average amount of risk and volatility or loss of principal.. Unsecured Debt.  Unsecured debt investments do not benefit from a security interest in the assets of the portfolio company. As such, in the event of insolvency, any secured creditors of the portfolio company would have priority over us with respect to the proceeds from the sale of such company's assets and the proceeds from such sale may not be sufficient to repay our debt.. Subordinated Debt.  Subordinated debt investments are debt investments in which the holder has contractually agreed to be subordinated to other creditors. As such, in the event of insolvency, any creditor with a security interest or who ranks senior to the subordinated debt under the agreement governing the debt, including certain unsecured creditors, would have priority over us with respect to the proceeds from the sale of the portfolio company's assets, and the proceeds from such sale may not be sufficient to repay our debt.. Preferred Stock and Other Equity Investments.  We may invest directly in the equity securities of portfolio companies. In addition, when we invest in loans and other debt securities, we may acquire common or preferred equity securities as well. Our goal is generally to exit such equity interests and realize gains upon our disposition of interests. However, the equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and may end up declining in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience.. Distressed Debt.  We may from time to time invest in distressed debt or the loans that we hold may become distressed. Distressed debt investments may not produce income, may require us to bear certain expenses to protect our investment and may subject us to uncertainty as to when, in what manner and for what value such distressed debt will eventually be satisfied.. Middle-Market Companies.  Investing in middle market companies involves a number of significant risks, including:. • such companies may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing on any guarantees we may have obtained in connection with our investment;. • such companies typically have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors' actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns;. • such companies are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us;. • limited public information exists about many of these companies and, if OHA's investment professionals are unable to uncover all material information necessary to evaluate the potential returns from investing in such companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investments;. • such companies generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position; and. • such companies may have difficulty accessing the capital markets to meet future capital needs, which may limit their ability to grow or to repay their outstanding indebtedness, including any debt securities held by us, upon maturity.. Our portfolio is concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies and industries, which will subject us to a risk of significant loss if any of these companies performs poorly or defaults on its obligations under any of its debt instruments or if there is a downturn in a particular industry.. We are classified as a non-diversified management investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, which means that we are not limited by the 1940 Act with respect to the proportion of our assets that we may invest in securities of a single issuer. Beyond the asset diversification requirements associated with our qualification as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification. Our portfolio is currently concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies. For example, as of December 31, 2017, a single portfolio company, OCI Holdings, LLC, and a single industry segment, home health services, represented 21.4% and 21.4% of our total investment portfolio including cash and cash equivalents (excluding $20.0 million of our investments in U.S. Treasury Bills) at fair value, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2017, investment income related to our investments in OCI represented 38.2% of total investment income.. 12. As a result, the aggregate returns we realize may be significantly adversely affected if a small number of investments perform poorly or if we need to write down the value of any one investment. Additionally, a downturn in any particular industry in which we are invested could also significantly impact our net asset value and the aggregate returns we realize.. Our investments in securities rated below investment grade are speculative in nature and are subject to additional risk factors such as increased possibility of default, illiquidity of the security, and changes in value based on changes in interest rates.. We typically invest in securities that are not rated by any rating agency, but we believe that if such securities were rated, they would be below investment grade (rated lower than \"Baa3\" by Moody's Investors Service, lower than \"BBB-\" by Fitch Ratings or lower than \"BBB-\" by Standard & Poor's Ratings Services). Securities rated below investment grade are often referred to as \"leveraged loans,\" \"high yield\" or \"junk\" securities and are regarded as having predominantly speculative characteristics with respect to the issuer's capacity to pay interest and repay principal in accordance with the terms of the obligations. Securities rated below investment grade generally offer a higher current yield than that available from investment grade securities but typically involve greater risk. These securities are especially sensitive to adverse changes in general economic conditions, to changes in the financial condition of their issuers and to price fluctuation in response to changes in interest rates. During periods of economic downturn or rising interest rates, issuers of below investment grade instruments may experience financial stress that could adversely affect their ability to make payments of principal and interest and increase the possibility of default. In addition, the secondary market for below-investment grade securities may not be as liquid as the secondary market for more highly rated securities.. Many of our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our investments and debt securities in such companies and such portfolio companies may not generate sufficient cash flow to service their debt obligations to us.. We have invested a portion of our capital in second lien, subordinated and unsecured debt securities issued by our portfolio companies and intend to continue to do so in the future. Such portfolio companies usually have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the debt securities in which we invest. Such subordinated investments are subject to greater risk of default than senior obligations as a result of adverse changes in the financial condition of the obliger or in general economic conditions. If we make a subordinated investment in a portfolio company, the portfolio company may be highly leveraged, and its relatively high debt-to-equity ratio may create increased risks that its operations might not generate sufficient cash flow to service all of its debt obligations. By their terms, senior debt instruments may provide that the holders are entitled to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of the debt securities in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying senior creditors, the portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us where we are junior creditor. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt securities in which we invest, we would have to share any distributions on an equal and ratable basis with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company.. Additionally, certain loans that we make to portfolio companies may be secured on a second priority basis by the same collateral securing senior secured debt of such companies. The first priority liens on the collateral will secure the portfolio company's obligations under any outstanding senior debt and may secure certain other future debt that may be permitted to be incurred by the portfolio company under the agreements governing the loans. The holders of obligations secured by first priority liens on the collateral will generally control the liquidation of, and be entitled to receive proceeds from any realization of, the collateral to repay their obligations in full before we would. In addition, the value of the collateral in the event of liquidation will depend on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. There can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from sales of all of the collateral would be sufficient to satisfy the loan obligations secured by the second priority liens after payment in full of all obligations secured by the first priority liens on the collateral. If such proceeds were not sufficient to repay amounts outstanding under the loan obligations secured by the second priority liens, then we, to the extent not repaid from the proceeds of the sale of the collateral, will only have an unsecured claim against the portfolio company's remaining assets, if any.. We have made in the past, and may make in the future, unsecured loans to portfolio companies, meaning that such loans will not benefit from any interest in the collateral of such companies. Liens on a portfolio company's collateral, if any, will secure the portfolio company's obligations under its outstanding secured debt and may secure certain future debt that is permitted to be incurred by the portfolio company under its secured loan agreements. The holders of obligations secured by such liens will generally control the liquidation of, and be entitled to receive proceeds from any realization of, such collateral to repay their obligations in full before we would. In addition, the value of such collateral in the event of liquidation will depend on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. There can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from sales of such collateral would be sufficient to satisfy our unsecured loan obligations after payment in full of all loans secured by collateral. If such proceeds were not sufficient to repay the outstanding secured loan obligations, then our unsecured. 13. claims would rank equally with the unpaid portion of such secured creditors' claims against the portfolio company's remaining assets, if any.. The rights we may have with respect to the collateral securing the loans we make to our portfolio companies with senior debt outstanding may also be limited pursuant to the terms of one or more intercreditor agreements that we enter into with the holders of such senior debt. Under a typical intercreditor agreement, at any time that obligations that have the benefit of the first priority liens are outstanding, any of the following actions that may be taken in respect of the collateral will be taken at the direction of the holders of the obligations secured by the first priority liens:. • the ability to cause the commencement of enforcement proceedings against the collateral;. • the ability to control the conduct of such proceedings;. • the approval of amendments to collateral documents;. • releases of liens on the collateral; and. • waivers of past defaults under collateral documents.. We may not have the ability to control or direct such actions, even if our rights are adversely affected.. Price declines and illiquidity in the corporate debt markets may adversely affect the fair value of our portfolio investments, reducing our net asset value through increased unrealized depreciation.. As a BDC, we are required to carry our investments at market value or, if no market value is ascertainable, at fair value as determined in good faith by or under the direction of our Board of Directors and in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Decreases in the market values or fair values of our investments are recorded as unrealized depreciation. Any unrealized depreciation in our loan portfolio could be an indication of a portfolio company's inability to meet its repayment obligations to us with respect to the affected loans. This could result in realized losses in the future and ultimately in reductions of our income available for distribution in future periods and could materially adversely affect our ability to service our outstanding borrowings. Depending on market conditions, we could incur substantial losses in future periods, which could reduce our net asset value and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A portion of our portfolio investments are recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors and, as a result, there may be uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments.. A portion of our portfolio investments take the form of securities that are not publicly traded. The fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable, and we value these securities at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors, including to reflect significant events affecting the value of our securities. A majority of our investments are classified as Level 3 under ASC Topic 820. This means that our portfolio valuations are based on unobservable inputs and our own assumptions about how market participants would price the asset or liability in question. Inputs into the determination of fair value of our portfolio investments require significant management judgment or estimation. Even if observable market data are available, such information may be the result of consensus pricing information or broker quotes, which may include a disclaimer that the broker would not be held to such a price in an actual transaction. The non-binding nature of consensus pricing and/or quotes accompanied by disclaimers materially reduces the reliability of such information.. Because such valuations are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. Our net asset value could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon the disposal of such securities.. We adjust quarterly the valuation of our portfolio to reflect our Board of Directors' determination of the fair value of each investment in our portfolio. Any changes in fair value are recorded in our consolidated statement of operations as net unrealized appreciation (depreciation) on investments.. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business.. A substantial portion of our investments are and will be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will otherwise be less liquid than more broadly traded public securities. The illiquidity of these investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments.. Generally we do not hold controlling equity interests in our portfolio companies, and therefore, we may not be in a position to exercise control over our portfolio companies or to prevent decisions by management of our portfolio companies that could decrease the value of our investments.. To the extent we do not hold a controlling equity position in a portfolio company, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company in which we do not have a controlling interest may make business decisions with which we disagree, and that the. 14. management and/or stockholders of such portfolio company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that are adverse to our interests. Due to the lack of liquidity of the debt and equity investments that we typically hold in our portfolio companies, we may not be able to dispose of our investments in the event we disagree with the actions of a portfolio company and may therefore suffer a decrease in the value of our investments.. Prepayments of our debt investments by our portfolio companies could adversely impact our results of operations and reduce our return on equity.. We are subject to the risk that the investments we make in our portfolio companies may be prepaid prior to maturity. We may use the proceeds from such prepayments to reduce our outstanding borrowings or invest such proceeds in temporary investments, pending their future investment in new portfolio companies. These temporary investments, if any, will typically have substantially lower yields than the debt investment being prepaid, and we could experience significant delays in reinvesting these amounts. Any future investment in a new portfolio company may be at lower yields than the debt investment that was prepaid. As a result, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if one or more of our portfolio companies elect to prepay amounts owed to us. Additionally, prepayments could negatively impact our return on equity, which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock.. Our portfolio companies may be unable to repay or refinance outstanding principal on their loans at or prior to maturity, and rising interests rates may make it more difficult for portfolio companies to make periodic payments on their loans.. Our portfolio companies may be unable to repay or refinance outstanding principal on their loans at or prior to maturity. This risk and the risk of default is increased to the extent that the loan documents do not require the portfolio companies to pay down the outstanding principal of such debt prior to maturity. In addition, if general interest rates rise, there is a risk that our portfolio companies will be unable to pay escalating interest amounts, which could result in a default under our investment. Rising interest rates could also cause portfolio companies to shift cash from other productive uses to the payment of interest, which may have a material adverse effect on their business and operations and could, over time, lead to increased defaults. Any failure of one or more of our portfolio companies to repay or refinance its debt at or prior to maturity or the inability of one or more portfolio companies to make ongoing payments, including as a result of an increase in contractual interest rates, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may choose to waive or defer enforcement of covenants in the debt securities held in our portfolio, which may cause us to lose all or part of our investment in these companies.. We structure the debt investments in our portfolio companies to include business and financial covenants placing affirmative and negative obligations on the operation of the company's business and its financial condition. However, from time to time we may elect to waive breaches of these covenants, including our right to payment, or waive or defer enforcement of remedies, such as acceleration of obligations or foreclosure on collateral, depending upon the financial condition and prospects of the particular portfolio company. These actions may reduce the likelihood of our receiving the full amount of future payments of interest or principal and may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of the underlying collateral, as many of these companies may have limited financial resources, may be unable to meet future obligations and may go bankrupt. This could negatively impact our ability to pay distributions and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our loans could be subject to equitable subordination by a court or we could be subject to lender liability claims.. Courts may apply the doctrine of equitable subordination to subordinate the claim or lien of a lender against a borrower to claims or liens of other creditors of the borrower, when the lender or its affiliates is found to have engaged in unfair, inequitable or fraudulent conduct. The courts have also applied the doctrine of equitable subordination when a lender or its affiliates is found to have exerted inappropriate control over the borrower, including control resulting from the ownership of equity interests in a client. We have in the past made, and from time to time in the future make, direct equity investments or received warrants in connection with loans. Payments on one or more of our loans, particularly a loan to a borrower in which we also hold an equity interest, may be subject to claims of equitable subordination. If we were deemed to have the ability to control or otherwise exercise influence over the business and affairs of one or more of our portfolio companies (including through the provision of managerial assistance to that portfolio company) resulting in economic hardship to other creditors of that company, this control or influence may constitute grounds for equitable subordination and a court may treat one or more of our secured loans as if it were unsecured or common equity in the portfolio company. In that case, if the portfolio company were to liquidate, we would be entitled to repayment of our loan on a pro-rata basis with other unsecured debt or, if the effect of subordination was to place us at the level of common equity, then on an equal basis with other holders of the portfolio company's common equity only after all of its obligations relating to its debt and preferred securities had been satisfied.. In addition, lenders in certain cases can be subject to lender liability claims for actions taken by them when they become too involved in the borrower's business or exercise control over a borrower. It is possible that we could become subject to a lender's liability claim, including as a result of actions taken if we render managerial assistance to the borrower.. 15. We may hold the debt securities of leveraged companies that may enter into bankruptcy proceedings.. Leveraged companies may experience bankruptcy or similar financial distress. The bankruptcy process has a number of significant inherent risks, including difficulties estimating contingent claims. Many events in a bankruptcy proceeding are the product of contested matters and adversary proceedings and are beyond the control of the creditors, and our influence on the process may be limited. A bankruptcy filing by a portfolio company may adversely and permanently affect the portfolio company. If the proceeding is converted to a liquidation, the value of the portfolio company may not equal the liquidation value that was believed to exist at the time of the investment. The duration of a bankruptcy proceeding is also difficult to predict, and a creditor's return on investment can be adversely affected by delays until the plan of reorganization or liquidation ultimately becomes effective. The administrative costs of a bankruptcy proceeding are frequently high and would be paid out of the debtor's estate prior to any return to creditors.. Two of our portfolio companies, Bennu and Castex 2005, LP, are currently involved in bankruptcy proceedings.. We make loans that may include PIK interest or dividends or accretion of original issue discount provisions, which could increase the risk of default by our portfolio companies.. Some of the loans we make or acquire provide for the payment by portfolio companies of PIK interest or dividends or accreted original issue discount at maturity. Such loans have the effect of deferring a portfolio company's payment obligation until the end of the term of the loan, which may make it difficult for us to identify and address developing problems with a portfolio company in terms of its ability to repay us. Particularly in a rising interest rate environment, loans containing PIK and original issue discount provisions can give rise to negative amortization on a loan, resulting in a borrower owing more at the end of the term of a loan than what it owed when the loan was originated. Any such developments may increase the risk of default on our loans by borrowers. In addition, loans containing PIK may have unreliable valuations because their continuing accruals require continuing judgments about the collectability of the deferred payments and the value of any associated collateral.. In addition, to the extent that we invest in original issue discount instruments and the accretion of original issue discount constitutes a portion of our income, we will be exposed to risks associated with the requirement to include such non-cash income in taxable and accounting income prior to receipt of cash, including that, for accounting purposes, cash distributions to investors representing original issue discount income do not come from paid-in capital, although they may be paid from the offering proceeds. As a result, although a distribution of original issue discount income may come from the cash invested by investors, the 1940 Act does not require that investors be given notice of this fact.. We are subject to risks associated with our investments in CLOs.. We are currently invested, and may in the future invest, in the subordinated debt or equity of CLOs, which involves a number of significant risks. Generally, there may be less information available to us regarding the underlying debt investments held by CLOs than if we had invested directly in the debt of the underlying companies. As a result, our stockholders will not know the details of the underlying securities of the CLOs in which we invest.. CLOs are typically highly levered, which magnifies the adverse impact of any defaults by the senior secured loans underlying our investment in the CLO. While investors in CLOs indirectly bear risks of the underlying debt investments held by such CLOs, we generally have the right to receive payments only from the CLOs, and generally do not have direct rights against the underlying borrowers or the entity that sponsored the CLOs.. In addition to the general risks associated with investing in debt securities, CLOs carry additional risks, including: (i) the possibility that distributions from the underlying loans will not be adequate to make interest or other payments; (ii) the quality of the underlying loans may decline in value or default; and (iii) the complex structure of the security may not be fully understood at the time of investment and may produce disputes with the CLO or unexpected investment results. CLO securities are typically privately offered and thinly traded. Further, our investments in the subordinated debt or equity of a CLO will be subordinate to the senior debt securities of such CLO. We held one investment in a CLO, Gramercy Park CLO, Ltd., with a fair value of $0.2 million, which represents 0.3% of our portfolio investments, as of December 31, 2017.. We may incur risk with respect to investments we acquire through assignments or participations of interests.. We have in the past acquired, and may in the future acquire, loans through assignments or participations of interests in such loans. The purchaser of an assignment typically succeeds to all the rights and obligations of the assigning institution and becomes a lender under the credit agreement with respect to such debt obligation. However, where we acquire an assignment or participation interest, our rights may be more restricted than those of the assigning institution, and we may not be able to unilaterally enforce all rights and remedies under an assigned debt obligation and with regard to any associated collateral. A participation typically results in a contractual relationship only with the institution participating out the interest, such as a bank or broker-dealer, and not directly with the borrower, and we may not directly benefit from the collateral supporting the debt obligation in which we have purchased the participation. As a result, we will be exposed to the credit risk of both the borrower. 16. and the institution selling the participation. Further, in purchasing participations, we may not be able to conduct the same level of due diligence on a borrower or the quality of the loan with respect to which we are buying a participation as we would conduct if we were investing directly in the loan. This difference may result in us being exposed to greater credit risk with respect to such loans than we expected when initially purchasing the participation.. Economic downturns or recessions could impair our portfolio companies' operations and ability to satisfy obligations to their respective lenders, including us, which could negatively impact our ability to pay dividends.. The conditions and overall strength of the international, national and regional economies, including interest rate fluctuations, changes in capital markets and changes in the prices of their primary commodities and products, generally affects our portfolio companies. These factors could adversely impact the results of operations of our portfolio companies.. Our portfolio companies may be susceptible to economic downturns or recessions and may be unable to satisfy financial covenants or to repay our loans during these periods. Adverse economic conditions also may decrease the value of collateral securing our loans and the value of our equity investments. Economic downturns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and decreases in revenues, net income and assets. A portfolio company's failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on the assets securing such loans, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize our portfolio company's ability to meet its obligations under the debt securities that we hold and adversely impact the value of any equity securities we own. These events could temporarily or permanently reduce the fair value of certain of our investments, prevent us from making additional investments and harm our operating results or ability to pay dividends.. Risks Relating to Our Business and Structure. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities.. A number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we target. We compete with other BDCs, public and private investment funds, commercial and investment banks, commercial financing companies and, to the extent they provide an alternative form of financing, private equity and hedge funds. Some of our competitors are substantially larger and may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments than we do, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more portfolio relationships than we do. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act and the Code impose on us as a BDC and a RIC, respectively.. The competitive pressures we face may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we may not be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objectives. If we are unable to source attractive investments, we may hold a greater percentage of our assets in cash or operate with less leverage than anticipated, which could impact potential returns on our portfolio.. We do not seek to compete primarily based on the interest rates we will offer, and we believe that some of our competitors may make loans with interest rates that will be comparable to or lower than the rates we offer. We may lose investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors' pricing, terms and structure. However, if we match our competitors' pricing, terms and structure, we may experience decreased net investment income and increased risk of credit loss.. We are dependent upon senior management personnel of OHA  and on OHA's ability to hire and retain qualified personnel.. We depend on our investment management team, which is provided by OHA, for the identification, final selection, structuring, closing and monitoring of our investments. Our investment team at OHA is integral to our asset management activities and has critical industry experience and relationships that we rely on to implement our business plan. Our future success depends on continued service to OHA of our investment team and/or additional qualified personnel. The departure of any of the members of OHA's investment team could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objective. As a result, we may not be able to operate our business as we expect, and our ability to compete could be harmed, which could cause our operating results to suffer.. Our business model depends to a significant extent upon strong referral relationships with financial sponsors, and the inability of OHA to maintain or develop these relationships, or the failure of these relationships to generate investment opportunities, could adversely affect our business.. We expect that OHA will maintain and develop their relationships with financial sponsors, and we will rely to a significant extent upon these relationships to provide us with potential investment opportunities. If OHA fails to maintain its existing. 17. relationships or develop new relationships with other sponsors or sources of investment opportunities, we will not be able to grow our investment portfolio. In addition, individuals with whom OHA has relationships are not obligated to provide us with investment opportunities, and, therefore, there is no assurance that such relationships will generate investment opportunities for us. If OHA is unable to source investment opportunities, we may hold a greater percentage of our assets in cash than anticipated, which could impact potential returns on our portfolio.. There are significant potential conflicts of interest which could adversely impact our investment returns.. Our executive officers and directors, and certain investment professionals of OHA, serve or may serve as officers, directors, principals or investment professionals of entities that operate in the same or a related line of business as we do or of investment funds managed by our affiliates. OHA and its affiliates also manage private investment funds, and may manage other funds in the future, that have investment objectives or mandates that are similar, in whole and in part, to ours. Accordingly, such individuals and OHA may have obligations to investors in those entities, the fulfillment of which might not be in the best interests of us or our stockholders. For example, the principals of OHA may face conflicts of interest in the allocation of investment opportunities to us and such other funds.. OHA has adopted an investment allocation policy that governs the allocation of investment opportunities among the investment funds (including us) that are managed by OHA and its affiliates. To the extent an investment opportunity is appropriate for us or any other investment fund managed by OHA or its affiliates, OHA will adhere to its investment allocation policy in order to determine the allocation of such opportunity among the various investment funds. Although OHA's investment professionals will endeavor to allocate investment opportunities in a fair and equitable manner, we and our stockholders could be adversely affected to the extent investment opportunities are allocated among us and other investment vehicles managed or sponsored by, or affiliated with, investment professionals of OHA, our executive officers and directors.. BDCs generally are not permitted to co-invest on a concurrent basis with certain affiliated entities in the absence of an exemptive order from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. However, BDCs are permitted to and may simultaneously co-invest in transactions where price is the only negotiated point. In an order dated April 25, 2016, the SEC granted exemptive relief permitting us, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, to co-invest in certain investment transactions with certain OHA affiliates where terms other than price are negotiated. We believe this relief enhances our ability to further our investment objectives and strategy and may also increase favorable investment opportunities for us, in part, by allowing us to participate in larger investments, together with our co-investment affiliates, than would be available to us if such relief had not been obtained. However, there can be no assurance that such exemptive relief will permit us to fully achieve these goals.. OHA's investment allocation policy is also designed to manage and mitigate conflicts of interest associated with the allocation of investment opportunities if we are able to co-invest, either pursuant to SEC interpretive positions or our exemptive order, with other funds managed by OHA or its affiliates. Under the investment allocation policy, if we are permitted to co-invest pursuant to an exemptive order, co-investments would be allocated pursuant to the conditions of the exemptive order.. Generally, for any initial allocation of a purchase under the investment allocation policy, if we are able to co-invest pursuant to SEC interpretive positions or the SEC exemptive relief, a portion of each opportunity that is appropriate for us and any affiliated fund will be offered to us and such other affiliated fund and other participating portfolios as determined by OHA based on two inputs: (i) available capital (which includes available cash, unfunded capital commitments and, at the discretion of OHA, leverage) and (ii) maximum issuer concentration sizes (which is determined at the discretion of OHA, taking into consideration account investment guidelines and other factors). Initial trade allocations may be adjusted by OHA in making a final allocation determination, including in cases where OHA is limited in its ability to allocate across all accounts.  The outcome of any allocation determination may result in the allocation of all or none of an investment opportunity to us, and there can be no assurance that we will have an opportunity to participate in certain investments that fall within our investment objectives.. Based on the foregoing methodology, accounts with higher available capital than we have will generally have a higher initial allocation percentage to an investment. Likewise, an account with a larger maximum issuer concentration size than we are permitted to have under the 1940 Act or other applicable law will generally have a higher initial allocation percentage to an investment.. OHA seeks to treat all clients fairly and equitably such that none receive preferential treatment over the others over time, in a manner consistent with its fiduciary duty to each of them; however, in some instances, especially in instances of limited liquidity, the factors may not result in allocations or may result in situations where certain funds receive allocations where others do not.. In addition, because we expect to make investments alongside other investment funds, accounts and other investment vehicles managed by OHA, consistent with existing regulatory guidance and OHA's allocation procedures, we may subsequently be prohibited by the 1940 Act from re-negotiating the terms of such co-investments, including with respect to. 18. granting loan waivers or concessions or in connection with a restructuring, reorganization or similar transaction involving the portfolio company, to the extent that other investment funds, accounts or other investment vehicles managed by OHA continue to hold such investments at the time. As a result, we may have to sell such investments at such time in order to avoid violating the 1940 Act or otherwise not participate in the re-negotiation of the terms of such co-investments, which may result in investment losses or lost opportunities to generate additional income, or may otherwise negatively impact us.. We may need to raise additional capital to grow because we must distribute most of our income.. We must distribute at least 90% of our investment company taxable income to our stockholders to maintain our RIC status and such distributions will not be available to fund new investments. We may need additional capital to fund growth in our investments. A reduction in the availability of new capital could limit our ability to grow. We expect to borrow from financial institutions and may, if warranted by market conditions and in the best interests of our stockholders, issue additional debt and equity securities. If we fail to obtain funds from such sources or from other sources to fund our investments, it could limit our ability to grow, which may have an adverse effect on the value of our securities. In addition, as a BDC, our ability to borrow or issue preferred stock may be restricted if our total assets are less than 200% of our total borrowings and preferred stock (or 150%, subject to certain approval and disclosure requirements).. Our ability to secure additional financing and satisfy our financial obligations under indebtedness outstanding from time to time will depend upon our future operating performance, which is subject to the prevailing general economic and credit market conditions, including interest rate levels and the availability of credit generally, and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The prolonged continuation or worsening of current economic and capital market conditions could have a material adverse effect on our ability to secure financing on favorable terms, if at all.. If we are unable to obtain debt capital, then our equity investors will not benefit from the potential for increased returns on equity resulting from leverage to the extent that our investment strategy is successful, and we may be limited in our ability to make new commitments or fundings to our portfolio companies.. Failure to further extend our Credit Facility could also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position and our ability to pay expenses and make distributions.. In September 2016 we entered into a Credit Agreement (the \"Credit Facility\") with Midcap Financial Trust, as administrative agent. The Credit Facility, which was scheduled to mature on March 9, 2018, has been subsequently extended to September 9, 2018, as permitted under the existing Credit Agreement. If the participating lenders do not renew or further extend the Credit Facility, the outstanding principal balance on that date will be due and payable. If we are unable to further extend our current Credit Facility or find a new source of borrowing on acceptable terms, we will be required to pay down the amounts outstanding under the current Credit Facility through one or more of the following: (1) available cash balances, (2) principal collections on our securities pledged under the facility, (3) at our option, interest collections on our securities pledged under the facility, or (4) possible liquidation of some or all of our loans and other assets, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position and may force us to decrease or stop paying certain expenses and/or making distributions to stockholders until amounts outstanding under the Credit Facility are repaid. In addition, our stock price could decline significantly, we would be restricted in our ability to acquire new investments and our independent registered public accounting firm could raise an issue as to our ability to continue as a going concern.. Any failure on our part to maintain our status as a BDC would reduce our operating flexibility.. The 1940 Act imposes numerous constraints on the operations of BDCs. For example, BDCs may not acquire any \"non-qualifying asset\" unless at the time of such acquisition at least 70% of their total assets are invested in specified types of qualifying assets, primarily in private companies or small U.S. public companies, cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and other high quality debt investments that mature in one year or less. Any failure to comply with the requirements imposed on BDCs by the 1940 Act could cause the SEC to bring an enforcement action against us and/or expose us to claims of private litigants. In addition, if we fail to maintain our qualification as a BDC, we may be subject to substantially greater regulation under the 1940 Act as a closed-end investment company. Compliance with such regulations would significantly decrease our operating flexibility, and could significantly increase our costs of doing business.. Regulations governing our operation as a BDC affect our ability to raise, and the way in which we raise additional capital. As a BDC, the necessity of raising additional capital may expose us to risks, including the typical risks associated with leverage.. Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we are currently permitted, as a BDC, to issue debt securities or preferred stock and/or borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as \"senior securities,\" in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% of gross assets less all liabilities and indebtedness not represented by senior securities, after each issuance of senior securities. Under the recently passed Small Business Credit Availability Act, subject to certain approval and disclosure requirements, we will be able to issue senior securities in amounts such that this asset coverage equals 150%. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy the relevant asset. 19. coverage requirements and, as a result, we will be limited in our ability to use debt capital to finance our operations. Also, any amounts that we use to service our indebtedness would not be available for distributions to our common stockholders. Furthermore, as a result of issuing senior securities, we would also be exposed to typical risks associated with leverage, including an increased risk of loss. As of December 31, 2017, we had $36.0 million outstanding and $0.0 million availability for borrowing under the Credit Facility.. If we issue preferred stock, the preferred stock would rank \"senior\" to common stock in our capital structure, preferred stockholders would generally vote together with common stockholders but would have separate voting rights on certain matters and might have other rights, preferences, or privileges more favorable than those of our common stockholders, and the issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for holders of our common stock or otherwise be in your best interest.. As a BDC, we are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. We may, however, sell our common stock at a price below the then-current net asset value per share of our common stock if our Board of Directors determines that such sale is in the best interests of OHAI and its stockholders, and our stockholders approve such sale. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price that, in the determination of our Board of Directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any distributing commission or discount). If we raise additional funds by issuing more common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, then the percentage ownership of our stockholders at that time will decrease, and you might experience dilution. This dilution would occur as a result of a proportionately greater decrease in a stockholder's interest in our earnings and assets and voting interest in us than the increase in our assets resulting from such issuance. Because the number of future shares of common stock that may be issued below our net asset value per share and the price and timing of such issuances are not currently known, we cannot predict the actual dilutive effect of any such issuance. We cannot determine the resulting reduction in our net asset value per share of any such issuance. We also cannot predict whether shares of our common stock will trade above, at or below our net asset value in the future.. We also may make rights offerings to our stockholders at prices less than net asset value, subject to applicable requirements of the 1940 Act. If we raise additional funds by issuing more shares of our common stock or issuing senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders may decline at that time and such stockholders may experience dilution. Moreover, we can offer no assurance that we will be able to issue and sell additional equity securities in the future, on terms favorable to us or at all.. We borrow money, which magnifies the potential for loss on amounts invested and may increase the risk of investing in us.. The use of leverage magnifies the potential for loss on amounts invested and, therefore, increases the risks associated with investing in our securities. As of December 31, 2017, we had $36.0 million outstanding under the Credit Facility. We may borrow from and issue senior debt securities to banks, insurance companies and other lenders in the future. Lenders of these senior securities, including the Credit Facility, will have fixed dollar claims on our assets that are superior to the claims of our stockholders, and we would expect such lenders to seek recovery against our assets in the event of a default. If the value of our assets decreases, leveraging would cause net asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged. Similarly, any decrease in our income would cause net income to decline more sharply than it would have had we not borrowed. Such a decline could also negatively affect our ability to make distribution payments on our common stock. Leverage is generally considered a speculative investment technique. Our ability to service any debt that we incur will depend largely on our financial performance and will be subject to prevailing economic conditions and competitive pressures. Moreover, as the management fee payable to OHA is payable based on our gross assets, including those assets acquired through the use of leverage, OHA has a financial incentive to incur leverage which may not be consistent with our stockholders' interests. In addition, our stockholders bear the burden of any increase in our expenses as a result of leverage, including any increase in the management fee payable to OHA. The amount of leverage that we employ depends on OHA's and our Board of Directors' assessment of market and other factors at the time of any proposed borrowing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain credit at all or on terms acceptable to us.. 20. The following table illustrates the effect of leverage on returns from an investment in our common stock as of December 31, 2017, assuming various annual returns, net of expenses. The calculations in the table below are hypothetical and actual returns may be higher or lower than those appearing in the table below.. Assumed Return on Our Portfolio (Net of Expenses)(1)   -10%   -5%   0   5%   10%                       Corresponding return to common stockholder (2)   -31%   -22%   -13%   -4%   4%. (1) The assumed portfolio return is required by SEC regulations and is not a prediction of, and does not represent, our projected or actual performance. Actual returns may be greater or less than those appearing in the table. Pursuant to SEC regulations, this table is calculated as of December 31, 2017.  As a result, it has not been updated to take into account any changes in assets or leverage since December 31, 2017.. (2) Assumes $106.1 million in total assets, $36.0 million in debt outstanding and $47.8 million in net assets as of as of December 31, 2017 and a weighted average interest rate of 6.71% as of December 31, 2017. The returns to common stockholder assume we do not reinvest $19.9 million of cash and cash equivalents on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2017.. Based on our outstanding indebtedness of $36.0 million as of December 31, 2017 and the weighted average interest rate of 6.71% as of that date, our investment portfolio would have been required to experience an annual return of at least 3.7% to cover annual interest payments on the outstanding debt.. Substantially all of our assets are subject to security interests under the Credit Facility, and if we default on our obligations under the Credit Facility, we may suffer adverse consequences, including foreclosure on our assets.. As of December 31, 2017, substantially all of our assets were pledged as collateral under the Credit Facility. If we default on our obligations under this facility, the lenders may have the right to foreclose upon and sell, or otherwise transfer, the collateral subject to their security interests or their superior claim. In such event, we may be forced to sell our investments to raise funds to repay our outstanding borrowings in order to avoid foreclosure and these forced sales may be at times and at prices we would not consider advantageous. Moreover, such deleveraging of our company could significantly impair our ability to effectively operate our business in the manner in which we have historically operated. As a result, we could be forced to curtail or cease new investment activities and lower or eliminate the dividends that we have historically paid to our stockholders.. It is likely that the terms of any current or future long-term credit facility we may enter into in the future could constrain our ability to grow our business.. Under the Credit Facility and our other borrowings, current lenders have, and any future lender or lenders may have, fixed dollar claims on our assets that are senior to the claims of our stockholders and, thus, will have a preference over our stockholders with respect to our assets in the collateral pool.. Our Credit Facility and borrowings also subject us to various financial and operating covenants. For example, the Credit Facility requires us to maintain debt to tangible net worth ratio, as defined in the credit agreement, of not more than 0:80 to 1.00 as determined on the last day of the month. If this ratio exceeds 0:80 to 1.00, we may not be able to incur additional debt, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, and we may not be able to make distributions to our stockholders. Future credit facilities and borrowings will likely subject us to similar or additional covenants.. The Credit Facility generally contains customary default provisions such as a debt to tangible net worth ratio, debt to fair market value ratio and a restriction on changing our business. An event of default under the Credit Facility would likely result in, among other things, termination of the availability of further funds under the Credit Facility and accelerated maturity dates for all amounts outstanding under the Credit Facility, which would likely disrupt our business and, potentially, the business of the portfolio companies whose loans we finance through the Credit Facility. This could reduce our investment income and, by delaying any cash payment allowed to us under the Credit Facility until the lenders have been paid in full, reduce our liquidity and cash flow and impair our ability to grow our business and maintain our status as a RIC.. We are exposed to risks associated with changes in interest rates.. Since we borrow money to make investments, our net investment income will depend, in part, upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds and the rate at which we invest those funds. As a result, a significant change in market interest rates may have a material adverse effect on our net investment income. In periods of rising interest rates, our cost of funds would increase, except to the extent we issue fixed rate debt or preferred stock, which could reduce our net investment income. We may use interest rate risk management techniques in an effort to limit our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. Such techniques may include various interest rate hedging activities to the extent permitted by the 1940 Act.. In addition, a rise in the general level of interest rates can be expected to lead to higher interest rates applicable to our debt investments over time. Interest rate fluctuations may have a substantial negative impact on our investments, the value of our. 21. common stock and our rate of return on invested capital. A reduction in the interest rates on new investments relative to interest rates on current investments or a reduction in the spread between the interest rates on our investments and the interest rates payable on our borrowings could have an adverse impact on our net investment income. In addition, a rise in the general level of interest rates can be expected to lead to higher interest rates applicable to our debt investments over time. There is a risk that the portfolio companies in which we hold floating rate debt investments will be unable to pay escalating interest amounts if general interest rates rise, resulting in a default under our investment. In addition, increasing payment obligations under floating rate loans may cause our portfolio companies to refinance or otherwise repay our loans prior to maturity. An increase in interest rates would make it easier for us to meet or exceed the incentive fee hurdle rate and may result in a substantial increase of the amount of incentive fees payable to OHA with respect to our pre-incentive fee net investment income. Also, an increase in interest rates available to investors could make investment in our common stock less attractive if we are not able to increase our dividend rate, which could reduce the market value of our common stock.. Recently passed legislation may allow us to incur additional leverage.. Historically a BDC, under the 1940 Act generally were not permitted to incur indebtedness unless immediately after such borrowing we had an asset coverage for total borrowings of at least 200% (i.e., the amount of debt could not exceed 50% of the value of our total assets). The Small Business Credit Availability Act, which was signed into law in March 2018, modifies this section of the 1940 Act and decreases this percentage from 200% to 150% (subject to either stockholder approval or approval of both a majority of the board of directors and a majority of directors who are not interested persons). As a result of this new law, we may be able to incur additional indebtedness subject to relevant approval and disclosure requirements and therefore your risk of an investment in us may increase. In addition, since our management fee is calculated as a percentage of the value of our gross assets, which includes any borrowings for investment purposes, the management fee expenses will increase if we incur additional indebtedness.. Our fee arrangement may create incentives for OHA that are not fully aligned with the interests of our stockholders and may induce OHA to pursue speculative investments.. Pursuant to the terms of the Investment Advisory Agreement, we pay base management and incentive fees to OHA. The base management fee is based on our average adjusted gross assets and the incentive fee is computed and paid on income, both of which include leverage. As a result, investors in our common stock will invest on a \"gross\" basis and receive distributions on a \"net\" basis after expenses, resulting in a lower rate of return than one might achieve through direct investments. Because the base management fee is based on our average adjusted gross assets, OHA benefits when we incur debt or use leverage. In addition, the incentive fee payable to OHA is calculated based on a percentage of our return on invested capital. This may encourage OHA to use leverage to increase the return on our investments. Under certain circumstances, the use of leverage may increase the likelihood of default, which would impair the value of our common stock and the amount of distributions we make to stockholders.. In addition, OHA receives the incentive fee based, in part, upon net capital gains realized on our investments. Unlike that portion of the incentive fee based on income, there is no hurdle rate applicable to the portion of the incentive fee based on net capital gains. As a result, OHA may have a tendency to invest more of our capital in investments that are likely to result in capital gains as compared to income producing securities. Moreover, for the purpose of calculating OHA's capital gains incentive fee, any gains and losses associated with our investment portfolio as of September 30, 2014 are excluded. As the capital gains fee is not payable by us to OHA with respect to any legacy investments, OHA may be incented to dispose of those investments with the aim of substituting them with assets for which a capital gains fee would be payable. These incentives could result in our investing in more speculative securities than would otherwise be the case, which could result in higher investment losses, particularly during economic downturns or result in us exiting an investment sooner than that which would have otherwise been optimal for us.. The incentive fee payable by us to OHA also may induce OHA to invest on our behalf in instruments that have a deferred interest feature, even if such deferred payments would not provide cash necessary to enable us to pay current distributions to our stockholders. Under these investments, we would accrue interest over the life of the investment but would not receive the cash income from the investment until the end of the term. Our net investment income used to calculate the income portion of the incentive fee, however, includes accrued interest. Thus, a portion of this incentive fee would be based on income that we have not yet received in cash. In addition, the \"catch-up\" portion of the incentive fee may encourage OHA to accelerate or defer interest payable by portfolio companies from one calendar quarter to another, potentially resulting in fluctuations in timing and distribution amounts.. On November 10, 2017, we entered into an Incentive Fee Waiver Agreement with OHA whereby OHA agreed to waive any incentive fees earned relating to fiscal years 2017 and 2018. Under the Incentive Fee Waiver Agreement, any capitalized gains fees that would have been earned and accrued during 2017 and 2018, which under our investment advisory agreement would not have been paid until 2018 and 2019, respectively, will be waived. For the year ended December 31, 2017, OHA waived $89,000 of capital gains incentive fee that would have been earned in 2017 and paid in 2018.. 22. We may invest, to the extent permitted by law, in the securities and instruments of other investment companies, including private funds, and, to the extent we so invest, will bear our ratable share of any such investment company's expenses, including management and performance fees. We will also remain obligated to pay management and incentive fees to OHA with respect to the assets invested in the securities and instruments of other investment companies. With respect to each of these investments, each of our stockholders will bear his or her share of the management and incentive fee of OHA as well as indirectly bearing the management and performance fees and other expenses of any investment companies in which we invest.. We may be obligated to pay OHA an incentive fee based on income even if we incur a loss.. OHA is entitled to an incentive fee based on income for each fiscal quarter in an amount equal to a percentage of the excess of our pre-incentive fee net investment income for that quarter (before deducting incentive compensation) above a performance threshold for that quarter. Since the performance threshold is based on a percentage of our net asset value, decreases in our net asset value reduce the performance threshold required for OHA to earn an incentive fee based on income. Our pre-incentive fee net investment income for purposes of calculating the incentive fee excludes realized and unrealized capital losses or depreciation that we may incur in the fiscal quarter, even if such capital losses or depreciation result in a net loss on our statement of operations for that quarter. Thus, we may be required to pay OHA an incentive fee for a fiscal quarter even if there is a decline in the value of our portfolio or we incur a net loss for that quarter.. On November 10, 2017, we entered into an Incentive Fee Waiver Agreement with OHA whereby OHA agreed to waive any incentive fees earned relating to fiscal years 2017 and 2018.. Under the terms of the Investment Advisory Agreement, we may have to pay capital gain incentive fees to OHA in periods in which we have incurred a net realized loss on the sale of our investments.. Pursuant to the terms of the Investment Advisory Agreement, any gains and losses associated with our investment portfolio as of September 30, 2014, or the legacy portfolio, are excluded from the capital gains fee calculation. As a result, we may have to pay OHA a capital gains incentive fee in periods in which we have incurred a net realized loss on the sale of our investments to the extent that some or all of the realized losses relate to the legacy portfolio.. On November 10 2017, we entered into an Incentive Fee Waiver Agreement with OHA whereby OHA agreed to waive any incentive fees earned relating to fiscal years 2017 and 2018. Under the Incentive Fee Waiver Agreement, any capitalized gains fees that would have been earned and accrued during 2017 and 2018, which under our investment advisory agreement would not have been paid until 2018 and 2019, respectively, will be waived. For the year ended December 31, 2017, OHA waived $89,000 of capital gains incentive fee that would have been earned in 2017 and paid in 2018.. We will become subject to corporate-level income tax if we are unable to maintain our qualification as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code.. Although we have elected to be treated as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code, no assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain our RIC status. To maintain RIC tax treatment under the Code, we must meet the following annual distribution, income source and asset diversification requirements.. • The annual distribution requirement for a RIC will be satisfied if we distribute to our stockholders on an annual basis at least 90% of our net ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any. Because we use debt financing, we are subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and financial covenants under credit agreements, that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to satisfy the distribution requirement. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we could fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level income tax.. • The income source requirement will be satisfied if we obtain at least 90% of our income for each year from distributions, interest, gains from the sale of stock or securities or similar sources.. • The asset diversification requirement will be satisfied if we meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each quarter of our taxable year. Failure to meet those requirements may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of RIC status. Because most of our investments will be in private companies, and therefore will be relatively illiquid, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and could result in substantial losses.. If we fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment for any reason and become subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions. Such a failure would have a material adverse effect on us, the net asset value of our common stock and the total return, if any, obtainable from an investment in our common stock.. 23. We may have difficulty satisfying the annual distribution requirement in order to qualify and maintain RIC status if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income.. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, and tax requirements, we include in income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such contractual PIK interest, which represents contractual interest added to a loan balance and due at the end of such loan's term. The increases in loan balances as a result of contractual PIK arrangements are included in income for the period in which such PIK interest was accrued, which is typically in advance of receiving cash payment, and are separately identified on our statements of cash flows. In addition, certain loans may also include any of the following: end-of-term payments, \"make whole\" interest or dividend provisions, exit fees, balloon payment fees or prepayment fees, which may require us to include certain amounts in income prior to receiving the related cash.. Since in certain cases we may recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty meeting the RIC tax requirement to distribute at least 90% of our net ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any. Under such circumstances, we may have to sell some of our investments at times we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or reduce new investment originations to meet these distribution requirements. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources and are otherwise unable to satisfy such distribution requirements, we may fail to qualify for the federal income tax benefits allowable to RICs and, thus, become subject to a corporate-level income tax on all our income.. The failure in cyber-security systems, as well as the occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems and management continuity planning could impair our ability to conduct business effectively.. The occurrence of a disaster such as a cyber attack, a natural catastrophe, an industrial accident, a terrorist attack or war, events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems, or a support failure from external providers, could have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial condition, particularly if those events affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage, and retrieval systems or destroy data. If a significant number of our OHA personnel were unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct our business could be severely compromised.. We depend heavily upon computer systems to perform necessary business functions. Despite our implementation of a variety of security measures, our computer systems could be subject to cyber attacks and unauthorized access, such as physical and electronic break-ins or unauthorized tampering. Like other companies, we may experience threats to our data and systems, including malware and computer virus attacks, unauthorized access, system failures and disruptions. If one or more of these events occurs, it could potentially jeopardize the confidential, proprietary and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations, which could result in damage to our reputation, financial losses, litigation, increased costs, regulatory penalties and/or customer dissatisfaction or loss.. We are highly dependent on information systems and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay distributions.. Our business is highly dependent on third parties' communications and information systems. Any failure or interruption of those systems, including as a result of the termination of an agreement with any third-party service providers, could cause delays or other problems in our activities. OHA's financial, accounting, data processing, backup or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control and adversely affect our business. There could be:. • sudden electrical or telecommunications outages;. • natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes;. • disease pandemics;. • events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and. • cyber attacks.. These events, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders.. Our Board of Directors may change our investment objectives, operating policies and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval.. Our Board of Directors has the authority to modify or waive our investment objectives, operating policies and strategies without prior notice and without stockholder approval. However, absent stockholder approval, we may not change the nature of our business so as to cease to be, or withdraw our election as, a BDC. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current. 24. investment objectives, operating policies and strategies would have on our business, operating results and value of our stock. Nevertheless, the effects may adversely affect our business and impact our ability to make distributions.. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations or the operations of our portfolio companies may adversely affect our business.. Changes in or uncertainty regarding laws or regulations, or the interpretations of the laws and regulations, which govern BDCs, RICs or non-depository commercial lenders could significantly affect our operations and our cost of doing business. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations and are subject to judicial and administrative decisions that affect our operations, including our loan originations, maximum interest rates, fees and other charges, disclosures to portfolio companies, the terms of secured transactions, collection and foreclosure procedures, and other trade practices. If these laws, regulations or decisions change, or if we expand our business into jurisdictions that have adopted more stringent requirements than those in which we currently conduct business, then we may have to incur significant expenses in order to comply or we may have to restrict our operations. In addition, if we do not comply with applicable laws, regulations and decisions, then we may lose licenses needed for the conduct of our business and be subject to civil fines and criminal penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon our business results of operations or financial condition. Similarly changes in or uncertainty regarding laws and regulations (or the interpretation of such laws and regulations) which govern our portfolio companies could adversely affect their operations and cost of doing business which in turn could adversely affect their ability to make payments to us and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, uncertainty regarding legislation and regulations affecting the financial services industry or taxation could also adversely impact our business or the business of our portfolio companies. In particular, significant tax reform legislation (commonly referred to as the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\") was signed into law on December 22, 2017.  The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, among other things, permanently reduces the maximum federal corporate income tax rate, reduces the maximum individual income tax rate (effective for taxable years 2018 through 2025), restricts the deductibility of business interest expense, changes the rules regarding the calculation of net operating loss deductions that may be used to offset taxable income, expands the circumstances in which a foreign corporation will be treated as a \"controlled foreign corporation\" and, under certain circumstances, requires accrual method taxpayers to recognize income for U.S. federal income tax purposes no later than the income is taken into account as revenue in an applicable financial statement. The impact of this new legislation on us, our stockholders and our portfolio companies is uncertain.. OHA can resign upon 60 days' notice, and we may not be able to find a suitable replacement within that time, resulting in a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations.. OHA has the right, under both the Investment Advisory Agreement and the Administration Agreement, to resign at any time upon 60 days' written notice, whether we have found a replacement or not. If OHA resigns, we may not be able to find a new investment advisor or new administrator, as applicable, or hire internal management with similar expertise and ability to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms within 60 days, or at all. If we are unable to do so quickly, our operations are likely to experience a disruption, our financial condition, business and results of operations as well as our ability to pay distributions are likely to be adversely affected, and the market price of our shares may decline. In addition, the coordination of our internal management and investment or administration activities, as applicable, is likely to suffer if we are unable to identify and reach an agreement with a single institution or group of executives having the expertise possessed by OHA and its affiliates. Even if we are able to retain comparable management, whether internal or external, the integration of such management and their lack of familiarity with our investment objective may result in additional costs and time delays that may adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations.. There can be no assurance that our Board of Directors' review of strategic alternatives will result in a transaction or, if a transaction is consummated, that we will be able to achieve some or all of the benefits anticipated from such transaction.. As initially announced in November 2017, our Board of Directors has elected to explore and evaluate a broad range of strategic alternatives to enhance long-term stockholder value and has engaged an investment banking firm as its financial advisor in connection therewith. There can be no assurance that this strategic alternatives review process will result in a transaction, or if a transaction is undertaken, as to its terms or timing. Our ability to successfully complete any strategic transaction is subject to significant risks, including, among others, the risk that any required regulatory or governmental approvals may not be obtained and the risk that, for this or other reasons, we may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we anticipated from such transaction.. 25. Risks Relating to an Investment in Our Securities. Our shares currently trade at a substantial discount from net asset value and may continue to do so over the long term.. Shares of closed-end investment companies, including BDCs, frequently trade at a market price that is less than the net asset value that is attributable to those shares. The possibility that shares of our common stock will trade at a substantial discount from net asset value over the long term is separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value will decrease. Although we cannot predict whether shares of our common stock will trade above, at or below our net asset value, our common stock has consistently traded below our net asset value since the fourth quarter of 2008. When our common stock trades below its net asset value, we are generally not able to issue additional shares of our common stock at its market price without first obtaining the approval for such issuance from our stockholders and our independent directors. Any offering of our common stock that requires stockholder approval must occur, if at all, within one year after receiving such stockholder approval. If additional funds are not available to us, we could be forced to curtail or cease our new lending and investment activities, and our net asset value could decrease and our level of distributions could be impacted.. Our common stock price may be volatile and may decrease substantially.. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. The price of our common stock that will prevail in the market may be higher or lower than the price you pay, depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include the following:. • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market or in securities of BDCs from time to time;. • investor demand for our shares;. • exclusion of our common stock from certain market indices which could reduce the ability of certain investment funds to own our common stock;. • changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines with respect to RICs and BDCs;. • the loss of RIC status;. • actual or anticipated changes in our earnings or fluctuations in our operating results;. • any shortfall in revenue or net investment income or any increase in losses from levels expected by stockholders or securities analysts;. • changes in accounting guidelines governing valuation of our investments;. • changes, or perceived changes, in the value of our portfolio investments;. • departures of OHA's key personnel;. • operating performance of companies comparable to us; and. • general economic conditions and trends and other external factors.. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities or for other reasons, securities class action litigation has been brought against that company. Due to the potential volatility of our stock price or for other reasons, we may become the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources from our business.. Our stockholders may not receive distributions, our distributions may not grow over time or a portion of our distributions may be a return of capital.. We intend to make distributions on a quarterly basis to our stockholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to make a specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. Our ability to pay distributions may be adversely affected by the impact of one or more of the risk factors described in this report. In addition, due to the asset coverage test applicable to us as a BDC, we may be prohibited in our ability to make distributions in certain limited circumstances. We cannot assure you that you will receive distributions at a particular level or at all.. If our distributions exceed our taxable income and capital gains realized during a taxable year, all or a portion of the distributions made in the same taxable year may be characterized as a return of capital to our stockholders. To the extent there is a return of capital, stockholders will be required to reduce their basis in our stock for U.S. federal income tax purposes, resulting in a higher reported capital gain or lower reported capital loss when those shares of our common stock are sold or. 26. otherwise disposed of. Under our current Credit Agreement, we are limited to distributing no more than 110% of our taxable income for that tax year.. Provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law and of our charter and bylaws could (if not otherwise exempted) deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock.. The Maryland General Corporation Law, our charter and our bylaws contain provisions that may discourage, delay or make more difficult a change in control of us or the removal of our directors. These anti-takeover provisions may inhibit a change of control in circumstances that could give our stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the market price for our common stock.. We are subject to the Maryland Business Combination Act, the application of which is subject to any applicable requirements of the 1940 Act. While our Board of Directors has adopted a resolution exempting from the Business Combination Act any business combination between us and any other person (subject to prior approval of such business combination by our Board of Directors, including approval by a majority of our directors who are not interested persons of the acquiring person), if the resolution exempting business combinations is repealed or our Board of Directors does not approve a business combination, the Business Combination Act may discourage third parties from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating such an offer.. Our bylaws exempt from the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act acquisitions of our stock by any person. If we were to amend our bylaws to repeal the exemption from such act, it would make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating such a control attempt.. Our charter provides for classifying our Board of Directors in three classes serving staggered three-year terms, and provisions of our charter authorize our Board of Directors to classify or reclassify shares of our stock in one or more classes or series, to cause the issuance of additional shares of our stock, and to amend our charter, without stockholder approval, to increase or decrease the number of shares of stock that we have authority to issue."
