[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10 - K are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or future results.. Demand for most of our products and services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by companies in the oil and natural gas industry. Low oil and natural gas prices have significantly reduced the demand for our products and services and the prices we are able to charge. This has had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Demand for most of our products and services depends substantially on the level of expenditures by companies in the oil and natural gas industry. The significant decline in oil and natural gas prices during 2015 that continued in 2016 and 2017 caused a reduction in most of our customers' drilling, completion and other production activities and related spending on our products and services. The reduction in demand from our customers has resulted in an oversupply of many of the services and products we provide, and such oversupply has substantially reduced the prices we can charge our customers for many of our products and services. Although oil and natural gas prices improved somewhat since the trough in 2016, these price improvements have not resulted in global improvements in the demand for our products and services or the prices we are able to charge. If oil and natural gas prices remain depressed or decline, our customers' activity levels and spending, and the prices we charge, may remain depressed and could worsen. In addition, a continuation or worsening of these conditions may result in a material adverse impact on certain of our customers' liquidity and financial position resulting in further spending reductions, delays in the collection of amounts owing to us and similar impacts. These conditions have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and it is difficult to predict how long the current depressed commodity price environment will continue.. Although conditions in our industry improved in 2017, particularly in the shale resource plays in the United States, they must continue to improve or we could encounter difficulties such as an inability to access needed capital on attractive terms or at all, the incurrence of asset impairment charges, the inability to meet financial ratios contained in our debt agreements, the need to reduce our capital spending and other similar impacts. For example, our reduced EBITDA during recent periods resulted in our inability to access the full borrowing capacity available under our Revolving Credit Facility during those periods as a result of the maximum leverage ratio covenant, which under our Amended Revolving Credit Facility, requires that our ratio of total net debt to consolidated EBITDA be no greater than 4.00 to 1.0 for fiscal quarters ending prior to December 31, 2018 and no greater than 3.75 to 1.0 thereafter. As more fully disclosed in Note 18, \"Subsequent Events,\" in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the heading \"Liquidity, Capital Resources and Other Matters,\" we discuss our expectations regarding liquidity and covenant compliance for 2018.. -. 13. -. Many factors affect the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas and, therefore, influence product prices, including:. •the level of drilling activity;. • the level of oil and natural gas production;. • the levels of oil and natural gas inventories;. • depletion rates;. • worldwide demand for oil and natural gas;. • the expected cost of finding, developing and producing new reserves;. • delays in major offshore and onshore oil and natural gas field development timetables;. • the availability of attractive oil and natural gas field prospects, which may be affected by governmental actions or environmental activists which may restrict development;. • the availability of transportation infrastructure for oil and natural gas, refining capacity and shifts in end-customer preferences toward fuel efficiency and the use of natural gas;. • global weather conditions and natural disasters;. • worldwide economic activity including growth in developing countries;. • national government political requirements, including the ability and willingness of OPEC to set and maintain production levels and prices for oil and government policies which could nationalize or expropriate oil and natural gas exploration, production, refining or transportation assets;. • shareholder activism or activities by non-governmental organizations to limit certain sources of funding for the energy sector or restrict the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas;. • the impact of armed hostilities involving one or more oil producing nations;. • rapid technological change and the timing and extent of development of energy sources, including liquefied natural gas or alternative fuels;. • environmental and other governmental laws and regulations; and. • domestic and foreign tax policies.. The recent oversupply of oil and natural gas relative to demand resulted in significantly lower oil and natural gas prices beginning in the second half of 2014 which continued through much of 2017. As a result, many of our customers reduced or delayed their capital spending, which reduced the demand for our products and services and exerted downward pressure on the prices paid for our products and services. Although some of our customers have increased their 2018 capital expenditure budgets, these customers are still spending significantly less than their pre-2015 levels. Additionally, if oil and natural gas prices decline, these customers may further reduce their spending levels. We expect that we will continue to encounter weakness in the demand for, and prices of, our products and services until commodity prices stabilize at higher levels and our customers' capital spending increases. Any prolonged reduction in the overall level of exploration and production activities, whether resulting from changes in oil and natural gas prices or otherwise, could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in many ways including by negatively affecting:. • our equipment utilization, revenues, cash flows and profitability;. • our ability to obtain additional capital to finance our business and the cost of that capital; and. • our ability to attract and retain skilled personnel.. -. 14. -. Given the cyclical nature of our business, a severe prolonged downturn could negatively affect the value of our goodwill.. As of December 31, 2017, goodwill represented 21% of our total assets, and we expect to record substantial additional goodwill in connection with the GEODynamics Acquisition. We record goodwill when the consideration we pay in acquiring a business exceeds the fair market value of the tangible and separately measurable intangible net assets of that business. We are required to periodically review the goodwill of our applicable reporting units (currently, Completion Services and Offshore/Manufactured Products) for impairment in value and to recognize a non-cash charge against earnings causing a corresponding decrease in stockholders' equity if circumstances, some of which are beyond our control, indicate that the carrying amount will not be recoverable. It is possible that we could recognize goodwill impairment losses in the future if, among other factors:. • global economic conditions deteriorate;. • the outlook for future profits and cash flow for any of our reporting units deteriorate further as the result of many possible factors, including, but not limited to, increased or unanticipated competition, technology becoming obsolete, further reductions in customer capital spending plans, loss of key personnel, adverse legal or regulatory judgment(s), future operating losses at a reporting unit, downward forecast revisions, or restructuring plans;. • costs of equity or debt capital increase; or. • valuations for comparable public companies or comparable acquisition valuations deteriorate.. Federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays in the completion of oil and natural gas wells that may reduce demand for our products and services and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Although we do not directly engage in hydraulic fracturing, a material portion of our Completion Services and Offshore/Manufactured Products operations support many of our oil and natural gas exploration and production customers in such activities. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and commonly used process for the completion of oil and natural gas wells in formations with low permeability, such as shale formations, and involves the pressurized injection of water, sand or other proppants and chemical additives into rock formations to stimulate production. Hydraulic fracturing is currently generally exempt from regulation under the Safe Drinking Water Act's (the \"SDWA\") Underground Injection Control (\"UIC\") program and is typically regulated in the United States by state oil and natural gas commissions or similar agencies.. However, several federal agencies have asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. For example, in February 2014, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (\"EPA\") asserted regulatory authority pursuant to the SDWA's UIC program over hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel and issued guidance covering such activities. The EPA also issued Clean Air Act (\"CAA\") final regulations in 2012 and in June 2016 governing performance standards, including standards for the capture of air emissions released during oil and natural gas hydraulic fracturing; published an effluent limit guideline final rule in June 2016 prohibiting the discharge of wastewater from onshore unconventional oil and natural gas extraction facilities to publicly owned wastewater treatment plants; and published an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking in May 2014 regarding Toxic Substances Control Act reporting of the chemical substances and mixtures used in hydraulic fracturing. Also, the federal Bureau of Land Management (\"BLM\") published a final rule in March 2015 that established new or more stringent standards relating to hydraulic fracturing on federal and American Indian lands.  However, in June 2016, a Wyoming federal judge struck down this final rule, finding that the BLM lacked authority to promulgate the rule, the BLM appealed the decision to the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in July 2016, the appellate court issued a ruling in September 2017 to vacate the Wyoming trial court decision and dismiss the lawsuit challenging the 2015 rule in response to the BLM's issuance of a proposed rulemaking to rescind the 2015 rule and, in December 2017, the BLM published a final rule rescinding the March 2015 rule.   In January 2018, a legal challenge to the BLM's rescission of the 2015 rule was filed in federal court.  In addition, from time to time, Congress has considered legislation to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing in the United States and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. At the state level, some states have adopted and other states are considering adopting legal requirements that could impose new or more stringent permitting, public disclosure or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities, including states where we or our customers operate. States could also elect to prohibit high volume hydraulic fracturing altogether, following the approach taken by the State of New York in 2015. Additionally, local governments may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place or manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular.. In December 2016, the EPA released its final report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources. The final report concluded that \"water cycle\" activities associated with hydraulic fracturing may impact drinking water resources \"under some circumstances,\" noting that the following hydraulic fracturing water cycle activities and local- or regional-scale factors are more likely than others to result in more frequent or more severe impacts: water withdrawals for fracturing in times or areas of low water availability; surface spills during the management of fracturing fluids, chemicals or produced water; injection of fracturing fluids into wells with inadequate mechanical integrity; injection of fracturing fluids directly into groundwater resources; discharge. -. 15. -. of inadequately treated fracturing wastewater to surface waters; and disposal or storage of fracturing wastewater in unlined pits. In the event that new or more stringent federal, state or local legal restrictions relating to use of the hydraulic fracturing process in the United States are adopted in areas where our oil and natural gas exploration and production customers operate, those customers could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with requirements relating to permitting, construction, financial assurance, monitoring, recordkeeping, and/or plugging and abandonment, as well as could experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of production or development activities, any of which could reduce demand for the products and services of each of our business segments and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The explosion of dangerous materials used in our recently acquired Downhole Technologies business, could disrupt our operations and could adversely affect our financial results.. Our business operations involve the licensing, storage and handling of explosive materials that are used in our Downhole Technologies business, which we acquired in the GEODynamics Acquisition in January 2018. Despite our use of specialized facilities to store and handle dangerous materials and our employee training programs, the storage and handling of explosive materials could result in incidents that temporarily shut down or otherwise disrupt our or our customers' operations or could cause delays in the delivery of our services. It is possible that such an explosion could result in death or significant injuries to employees and others. Material property damage to us, our customers and third parties arising from an explosion or resulting fire could also occur. Any explosion could expose us to adverse publicity or liability for damages or cause production delays, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Moreover, failure to comply with applicable requirements or the occurrence of an explosive incident may also result in the loss of our license to store and handle explosives, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial conditions.. Federal or state legislative and regulatory initiatives related to induced seismicity could result in operating restrictions or delays in the drilling and completion of oil and natural gas wells that may reduce demand for our products and services and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our oil and natural gas producing customers dispose of flowback water or certain other oilfield fluids gathered from oil and natural gas producing operations in accordance with permits issued by government authorities overseeing such disposal activities. While these permits are issued pursuant to existing laws and regulations, these legal requirements are subject to change based on concerns of the public or governmental authorities regarding such disposal activities. One such concern relates to recent seismic events near underground disposal wells used for the disposal by injection of flowback water or certain other oilfield fluids resulting from oil and natural gas activities. When caused by human activity, such events are called induced seismicity. Developing research suggests that the link between seismic activity and wastewater disposal may vary by region and local geology, and that only a small fraction of injection wells in North America have been considered to be a potential cause of, or otherwise linked to, induced seismicity. In March 2016, the United States Geological Survey identified six states with the most significant hazards from induced seismicity, including Oklahoma, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, New Mexico, and Arkansas. In response to concerns regarding induced seismicity, regulators in some states have imposed, or are considering imposing, additional requirements in the permitting of produced water disposal wells or otherwise to assess any relationship between seismicity and the use of such wells. For example, Oklahoma has issued rules for wastewater disposal wells that imposed certain permitting and operating restrictions and reporting requirements on disposal wells in proximity to faults and also, from time to time, is developing and implementing plans directing certain wells where seismic incidents have occurred to restrict or suspend disposal well operations. The Texas Railroad Commission has adopted similar rules. In addition, another consequence of seismic events may be lawsuits alleging that disposal well operations have caused damage to neighboring properties or otherwise violated state and federal rules regulating waste disposal. These developments could result in additional regulation and restrictions on the use of injection wells by our customers to dispose of flowback water and certain other oilfield fluids. Increased regulation and attention given to induced seismicity also could lead to greater opposition, including litigation, to oil and natural gas activities utilizing injection wells for waste disposal. Any one or more of these developments may result in our customers having to limit disposal well volumes, disposal rates or locations, or require our customers or third party disposal well operators that are used to dispose of customers' wastewater to shut down disposal wells, which developments could adversely affect our customers' business and result in a corresponding decrease in the need for our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Additional domestic and international deepwater drilling laws, regulations and other restrictions, delays in the processing and approval of drilling permits and exploration, development, oil spill-response and decommissioning plans, and other related developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. In recent years, the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (\"BOEM\") and the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (\"BSEE\"), each an agency of the U.S. Department of the Interior, have imposed more stringent permitting procedures and regulatory safety and performance requirements for new wells to be drilled in federal waters. Compliance with these more stringent regulatory. -. 16. -. requirements and with existing environmental and oil spill regulations, together with any uncertainties or inconsistencies in decisions and rulings by governmental agencies, delays in the processing and approval of drilling permits and exploration, development, oil spill-response and decommissioning plans and possible additional regulatory initiatives could result in difficult and more costly actions and adversely affect or delay new drilling and ongoing development efforts.. Moreover, new regulatory initiatives may be adopted or enforced by the BOEM or the BSEE in the future that could result in additional delays, restrictions or obligations with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and production operations conducted offshore. For example, in April 2016, BOEM published a proposed rule that would update existing air emissions requirements relating to offshore oil and natural gas activity on federal Outer Continental Shelf (\"OCS\") waters including in the Central Gulf of Mexico. BOEM regulates these air emissions in connection with its review of exploration and development plans, and right-of-use and right-of-way applications. The proposed rule would bolster existing air emission requirements by, among other things, requiring the reporting and tracking of the emissions of all pollutants defined by the EPA to affect human health and public welfare that, depending on the results obtained, could result in subsequent rulemakings that restrict offshore air emissions. However, in May 2017, Order 3350 was issued by the Department of the Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke, directing the BOEM to reconsider a number of regulatory initiatives governing oil and gas exploration in offshore waters, including, among other things, a cessation of all activities to promulgate the April 2016 proposed rulemaking (\"Order 3350\").  In an unrelated legal initiative, BOEM issued a Notice to Lessees and Operators (\"NTL #2016-N01\") that became effective in September 2016 and imposes more stringent requirements relating to the provision of financial assurance to satisfy decommissioning obligations. Together with a recent re-assessment by BSEE in 2016 in how it determines the amount of financial assurance required, the revised BOEM-administered offshore financial assurance program that is currently being implemented is expected to result in increased amounts of financial assurance being required of operators on the OCS, which amounts may be significant. However, as directed under Order 3350, the BOEM has delayed implementation of NTL #2016-N01 so that it may reconsider this regulatory initiative and, currently, this NTL's implementation timeline has been extended indefinitely beyond June 30, 2017, except in certain circumstances where there is a substantial risk of nonperformance of the interest holder's decommissioning liabilities. The April 2016 proposed rule and NTL #2016-N01, should they be finalized and/or implemented, as well as any new rules, regulations, or legal initiatives could delay or disrupt our customers' operations, increase the risk of expired leases due to the time required to develop new technology, result in increased supplemental bonding and costs, and limit activities in certain areas, or cause our customers to incur penalties, fines, or shut-in production at one or more of our facilities or result in the suspension or cancellation of leases, which could reduce demand for our products and services. We may incur penalties directly from BSEE if, based on review of the facts surrounding an alleged violation upon an offshore lease, BSEE seeks to hold contractors, including contractors such as us who are involved in well completion operations, potentially liable for alleged violations of law arising in the BSEE's jurisdiction area. While the Trump Administration has generally indicated an interest in scaling back or rescinding regulations that inhibit the development of the U.S. oil and gas industry, it is difficult to predict the extent to which such policies will be implemented or the outcome of any litigation challenging such implementation. Also, if material spill events were to occur in the future, the United States or other countries where such an event were to occur could elect to issue directives to temporarily cease drilling activities and, in any event, may from time to time issue further safety and environmental laws and regulations regarding offshore oil and natural gas exploration and development, any of which developments could have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot predict with any certainty the full impact of any new laws, regulations or legal initiatives on our customers' drilling operations or on the cost or availability of insurance to cover the risks associated with such operations. The matters described above, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.. We do business in international jurisdictions which exposes us to unique risks.. A portion of our revenue is attributable to operations in foreign countries. These activities accounted for approximately 18% (9% excluding the United Kingdom and Canada) of our consolidated revenue in the year ended December 31, 2017. Risks associated with our operations in foreign areas include, but are not limited to:. • expropriation, confiscation or nationalization of assets;. • renegotiation or nullification of existing contracts;. • foreign exchange limitations;. • foreign currency fluctuations;. • foreign taxation;. • the inability to repatriate earnings or capital in a tax efficient manner;. • changing political conditions;. • economic or trade sanctions;. • changing foreign and domestic monetary and trade policies;. -. 17. -. • changes in trade activity;. • social, political, military, and economic situations in foreign areas where we do business, and the possibilities of war, other armed conflict or terrorist attacks; and. • regional economic downturns.. As an illustration of this risk, there is a current recessionary economic environment in Brazil which, at present, is having a negative impact on orders and future growth prospects for the Company's operations in Brazil. Sales to customers in Brazil accounted for approximately 2%, 6% and 5% of the Company's consolidated revenues in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.. Additionally, in some jurisdictions we are subject to foreign governmental regulations favoring or requiring the awarding of contracts to local contractors, or requiring foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. These regulations may adversely affect our ability to compete in such jurisdictions.. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the \"FCPA\"), and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions, including the United Kingdom Bribery Act 2010, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices and impact our business. Any failure to comply with the FCPA or other anti-bribery legislation could subject us to civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could also face fines, sanctions, and other penalties from authorities in the relevant foreign jurisdictions, including prohibition of our participating in, or curtailment of, business operations in those jurisdictions and the seizure of assets. Additionally, we may have competitors who are not subject to the same ethics-related laws and regulations which provides them with a competitive advantage over us by securing business awards, licenses, or other preferential treatment, in those jurisdictions using methods that certain ethics-related laws and regulations prohibit us from using.. The regulatory regimes in some foreign countries may be substantially different than those in the United States, and may be unfamiliar to U.S. investors. Violations of foreign laws could result in monetary and criminal penalties against us or our subsidiaries and could damage our reputation and, therefore, our ability to do business.. Exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our U.S. reported results of operations and financial position.. In the ordinary course of our business, we enter into purchase and sales commitments that are denominated in currencies that differ from the functional currency used by our operating subsidiaries. Currency exchange rate fluctuations can create volatility in our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and/or cash flows. Although we may enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions in order to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, these transactions, if entered into, will not eliminate that risk entirely. To the extent that we are unable to match revenues received in foreign currencies with expenses paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and/or cash flows. Additionally, because our consolidated financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, if we generate net revenues or earnings in countries whose currency is not the U.S. dollar, the translation of such amounts into U.S. dollars can result in an increase or decrease in the amount of our net revenues and earnings depending upon exchange rate movements. As a result, a material decrease in the value of these currencies relative to the U.S. dollar may have a negative impact on our reported revenues, net income, and cash flows. Any currency controls implemented by local monetary authorities in countries where we currently operate could also adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The results of the United Kingdom's referendum on withdrawal from the European Union including the subsequent exchange rate fluctuations and political and economic uncertainties may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business.. We are a multinational company and are subject to the risks inherent in doing business in other countries, including the United Kingdom (the \"U.K.\"). In June 2016, a majority of voters in the U.K. elected to withdraw from the European Union in a national referendum (\"Brexit\"). The referendum was advisory, and the terms of any withdrawal are subject to a negotiation period that could last at least two years after the government of the U.K. formally initiates a withdrawal process. Nevertheless, Brexit has created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the U.K. and the European Union and other countries, including with respect to the laws and regulations that will apply as the U.K. determines which European Union derived laws to replace or replicate in the event of a withdrawal. The referendum has also given rise to calls for the governments of other European Union member states to consider withdrawal. These developments, or the perception that any of these developments may occur, could potentially disrupt the markets we serve and the jurisdictions in which we operate and may cause us to lose customers, suppliers and employees.. -. 18. -. The impact from Brexit on our business and operations will depend on the outcome of tariff, tax treaty, trade, regulatory and other negotiations, as well as the impact of the withdrawal on macroeconomic growth and currency volatility, which are uncertain at this time. Any of these effects of Brexit could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities.. Our operations are significantly affected by numerous federal, state, local, tribal and foreign laws, and regulations governing the discharge of substances into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. We could be exposed to liabilities for cleanup costs, natural resource damages, and other damages under these laws and regulations, with certain of these legal requirements imposing strict liability for such damages and costs, even though our conduct was lawful at the time it occurred or the conduct resulting in such damage and costs were caused by, prior operators or other third-parties.. Environmental laws and regulations are subject to change in the future, possibly resulting in more stringent legal requirements. If existing regulatory requirements or enforcement policies change, we or our oil and natural gas exploration and production customers may be required to make significant, unanticipated capital and operating expenditures. Examples of recent regulations or other regulatory initiatives include the following:. • Ground-Level Ozone Standards.    In October 2015, the EPA issued a final rule under the Clean Air Act, lowering the National Ambient Air Quality Standard (\"NAAQS\") for ground-level ozone from 75 parts per billion to 70 parts per billion under both the primary and secondary standards to provide requisite protection of public health and welfare, respectively. The EPA issued geographical attainment designations in November 2017 and is expected to issue final non-attainment area requirements pursuant to this NAAQS rule in the first half of 2018. Any designations or requirements that result in reclassification of areas or imposition of more stringent standards may make it more difficult to construct new or modified sources of air pollution in newly designated non-attainment areas. Moreover, states are expected to implement more stringent regulations, which could apply to our or our oil and natural gas exploration and production customers' operations.. • EPA Review of Drilling Waste Classification.    Drilling, fluids, produced water and most of the other wastes associated with the exploration, development and production of oil or natural gas, if properly handled, are currently exempt from regulation as hazardous waste under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (\"RCRA\") and instead, are regulated under RCRA's less stringent non-hazardous waste provisions. However, following the filing of a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia in May 2016 by several non-governmental environmental groups against the EPA for the agency's failure to timely assess its RCRA Subtitle D criteria regulations for oil and natural gas wastes, EPA and the environmental groups entered into an agreement that was finalized in a consent decree issued by the District Court on December 28, 2016. Under the decree, the EPA is required to propose no later than March 15, 2019, a rulemaking for revision of certain Subtitle D criteria regulations pertaining to oil and natural gas wastes or sign a determination that revision of the regulations is not necessary. If EPA proposes a rulemaking for revised oil and natural gas waste regulations, the consent decree requires that the EPA take final action following notice and comment rulemaking no later than July 15, 2021.. • Waters of the United States.    In May 2015, the EPA and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (\"Corps\") released a final rule outlining federal jurisdictional reach under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (\"Clean Water Act\") over waters of the United States, including wetlands but legal challenges to this rule followed. The 2015 rule was stayed nationwide to determine whether federal district or appellate courts had jurisdiction to hear cases in the matter and, in January 2017, the U.S. Supreme Court agreed to hear the case.  The EPA and Corps proposed a rulemaking in June 2017 to repeal the June 2015 rule, announced their intent to issue a new rule defining the Clean Water Act's jurisdiction, and published a proposed rule in November 2017 specifying that the contested May 2015 rule would not take effect until two years after the November 2017 proposed rule was finalized and published in the Federal Register.  Recently, on January 22, 2018, the U.S. Supreme Court issued a decision finding that jurisdiction resides with the federal district courts; consequently, while implementation of the 2015 rule currently remains stayed, the previously-filed district court cases will be allowed to proceed.  As a result of these recent developments, future implementation of the June 2015 rule is uncertain at this time but to the extent any rule expands the scope of the Clean Water Act's jurisdiction, our customers could face increased costs and delays with respect to obtaining permits for dredge and fill activities in wetland areas.. -. 19. -. Compliance with these regulations and other regulatory initiatives, or any other new environmental laws and regulations could, among other things, require us or our customers to install new or modified emission controls on equipment or processes, incur longer permitting timelines, and incur significantly increased capital expenditures and operating costs, which costs may be significant. Additionally, one or more of these developments could reduce demand for our products and services. Moreover, any failure by us to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations may result in governmental authorities taking actions against our business that could adversely impact our operations and financial condition, including the:. • issuance of administrative, civil, and/or criminal penalties;. • denial or revocation of permits or other authorizations;. • reduction or cessation in operations; and. • performance of site investigatory, remedial, or other corrective actions.. An accidental release of pollutants into the environment may cause us to incur significant costs and liabilities.. Our business activities present risks of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in our business as a result of our handling of petroleum hydrocarbons, because of air emissions and waste water discharges related to our operations, and due to historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. Additionally, private parties, including the owners of properties upon which we perform services and facilities where our wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, also may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property or natural resource damages. Some environmental laws and regulations may impose strict liability, which means that in some situations we could be exposed to liability as a result of our conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior operators or other third parties. Remedial costs and other damages arising as a result of environmental laws and costs associated with changes in environmental laws and regulations could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance.. Climate change legislation and regulations restricting or regulating emissions of GHGs could result in increased operating and capital costs and reduced demand for our products and services.. Climate change continues to attract considerable public and scientific attention. As a result, numerous proposals have been made and are likely to continue to be made at the international, national, regional and state levels of government to monitor and limit GHGs. These efforts have included consideration of cap-and-trade programs, carbon taxes, GHG reporting and tracking programs and regulations that directly limit GHG emissions from certain sources.. At the federal level, no comprehensive climate change legislation has been implemented to date. The EPA has, however, adopted rules under authority of the federal Clean Air Act that, among other things, establish Potential for Significant Deterioration (\"PSD\") construction and Title V operating permit reviews for GHG emissions from certain large stationary sources that are also potential major sources of certain principal, or criteria, pollutant emissions, which reviews could require securing PSD permits at covered facilities emitting GHGs and meeting \"best available control technology\" standards for those GHG emissions. In addition, the EPA has adopted rules requiring the monitoring and annual reporting of GHG emissions from certain petroleum and natural gas system sources in the U.S., including, among others, onshore and offshore production facilities, which include certain of our producing customers' operations. In October 2015, the EPA amended and expanded the GHG reporting requirements to all segments of the oil and natural gas industry.. Federal agencies also have begun directly regulating emissions of methane, a GHG, from oil and natural gas operations. In June 2016, the EPA published a final rule establishing new emissions standards for methane and additional standards for volatile organic compounds from certain new, modified or reconstructed facilities in the oil and natural gas source category that will require the use of certain equipment specific emissions control practices. However, in June 2017, the EPA published a proposed rule to stay certain portions of the June 2016 standards for two years and re-evaluate the entirety of the 2016 standards but the EPA has not yet published a final rule and, as a result, the June 2016 rule remains in effect but future implementation of the 2016 standards is uncertain at this time.  In another example, the BLM published a final rule in November 2016 that imposes requirements to reduce methane emissions from venting, flaring, and leaking on federal and Indian lands.  However, in December 2017, the BLM published a final rule that temporarily suspends or delays certain requirements contained in the November 2016 final rule until January 17, 2019.  The suspension of the November 2016 final rule is being challenged in court.  These rules, should they remain in effect, and any other new methane emission standards imposed on the oil and gas sector could result in increased costs to our and our customers' operations as well as result in delays or curtailment in such operations, which costs, delays or curtailment could adversely affect our business. Additionally, in December 2015, the United States joined the international community at the 21st Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris, France that requires member countries to review and \"represent. -. 20. -. a progression\" in their intended nationally determined contributions, which set GHG emission reduction goals every five years beginning in 2020. Although this agreement does not create any binding obligations for nations to limit their GHG emissions, it does include pledges to voluntarily limit or reduce future emissions. In August 2017, the U.S. State Department officially informed the United Nations of the intent of the United States to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. The Paris Agreement provides for a four-year exit process beginning when it took effect in November 2016, which would result in an effective exit date of November 2020. The United States' adherence to the exit process and/or the terms on which the United States may re-enter the Paris Agreement or a separately negotiated agreement are unclear at this time.. The adoption and implementation of any international, federal or state legislation or regulations that require reporting of GHGs or otherwise restrict emissions of GHGs could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions imposed on us or our customers operations, adversely impact overall drilling activity in the areas in which we operate, reduce the demand for carbon-based fuels, and reduce the demand for our products and services. Any one or more of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, demand for our services, results of operations, and cash flows. Finally, activists concerned about the potential effects of climate change have directed their attention at sources of funding for fossil-fuel energy companies, which has resulted in certain financial institutions, funds and other sources of capital restricting or eliminating their investment in oil and natural gas activities. Ultimately, this could make it more difficult to secure funding for exploration and production activities. Notwithstanding potential risks related to climate change, the International Energy Agency estimates that global energy demand will continue to rise and will not peak until after 2040 and that oil and natural gas will continue to represent a substantial percentage of global energy use over that time.. The Endangered Species Act and Migratory Bird Treaty Act (\"ESA\") and other restrictions intended to protect certain species of wildlife govern our and our oil and natural gas exploration and production customers' operations and additional restrictions may be imposed in the future, which constraints could have an adverse impact on our ability to expand some of our existing operations or limit our customers' ability to develop new oil and natural gas wells.. Oil and natural gas operations in our operating areas may be adversely affected by seasonal or permanent restrictions on drilling activities designed to protect various wildlife, which may limit our ability to operate in protected areas. Permanent restrictions imposed to protect endangered species could prohibit drilling in certain areas or require the implementation of expensive mitigation measures.. Moreover, as a result of one or more settlements approved by the United States federal government, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service must make determinations on the listing of numerous species as endangered or threatened under the ESA. The designation of previously unidentified endangered or threatened species could indirectly cause us to incur additional costs, cause our or our oil and natural gas exploration and production customers' operations to become subject to operating restrictions or bans, and limit future development activity in affected areas.. We are susceptible to seasonal earnings volatility due to adverse weather conditions in our regions of operations.. Our operations are directly affected by seasonal differences in weather in the areas in which we operate, most notably in the Rocky Mountain region of the United States, the Gulf of Mexico and Canada. Severe winter weather conditions in the Rocky Mountain region of the United States can restrict access to work areas for our Well Site Services segment customers. Our operations in and near the Gulf of Mexico are also affected by weather patterns. Weather conditions in the Gulf Coast region generally result in higher drilling activity in the spring, summer and fall months, with the lowest levels of activity in the winter months. In addition, summer and fall drilling activity can be restricted due to hurricanes and other storms prevalent in the Gulf of Mexico and along the Gulf Coast. As a result of these seasonal differences, full year results are not likely to be a direct multiple of any particular quarter or combination of quarters.. We are exposed to risks relating to subcontractors' performance in some of our projects.. In many cases, we subcontract the performance of portions of our operations to subcontractors. While we seek to obtain appropriate indemnities and guarantees from these subcontractors, we remain ultimately responsible for the performance of our subcontractors. Industrial disputes, natural disasters, financial failure or default, or inadequate performance in the provision of services, or the inability to provide services by such subcontractors, has the potential to materially adversely affect us.. -. 21. -. Our inability to control the inherent risks of identifying and integrating businesses that we may acquire, including any related increases in debt or issuances of equity securities, could adversely affect our operations.. Acquisitions have been, and our management believes will continue to be, a key element of our growth strategy. We continually review complementary acquisition opportunities and we expect to seek to consummate acquisitions of such businesses in the future. However, we may not be able to identify and acquire acceptable acquisition candidates on favorable terms in the future or at all. In addition, we may be required to incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions and also may issue equity securities in connection with such acquisitions. Such additional debt service requirements could impose a significant burden on our results of operations and financial condition, and the issuance of additional equity securities could result in significant dilution to stockholders.. We expect to gain certain business, financial, and strategic advantages as a result of business combinations we undertake, including synergies and operating efficiencies. Our forward-looking statements assume that we will successfully integrate our business acquisitions and realize these intended benefits. However, our inability to realize expected financial performance and strategic advantages as a result of an acquisition, including the GEODynamics Acquisition, could negatively affect the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Additional risks we could face in connection with acquisitions, including the GEODynamics Acquisition, include:. • retaining key employees and customers of acquired businesses;. • retaining supply and distribution relationships key to the supply chain;. • increased administrative burden, including additional costs associated with regulatory compliance;. • diversion of management time and attention;. • developing our sales and marketing capabilities;. • managing our growth effectively;. • potential goodwill impairment resulting from the overpayment for an acquisition;. • integrating operations, workforce, product lines and technology;. • managing tax and foreign exchange exposure;. • operating a new line of business;. • increased logistical problems common to large, expansive operations;. • inability to pursue and protect patents covering acquired technology;. • addition of acquisition-related debt and increased expenses and working capital requirements;. • substantial accounting charges for restructuring and related expenses, write-off of in-process research and development, impairment of goodwill, amortization of intangible assets, and stock-based compensation expense;. • becoming subject to unanticipated liabilities of the acquired business, including litigation related to the acquired business; and. • achieving the expected benefits from the acquisition, including certain cost savings and operational efficiencies or synergies.. Additionally, an acquisition may bring us into businesses we have not previously conducted and expose us to additional business risks that are different from those we have previously experienced. If we fail to manage any of these risks successfully, our business could be harmed. Our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly following an acquisition, and stockholders of the Company may not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial, and other relevant information that we will consider in evaluating future acquisitions.. As a private company, the audit of GEODynamics' financials was performed under the requirements of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants rather than the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and GEODynamics was not subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.. As a company with securities registered under the Exchange Act, our consolidated financial statements included in our periodic filings with the SEC are required to be audited by independent registered public accountants who are subject to oversight by, and independent under the rules of, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (the \"PCAOB\"). As a private company before the GEODynamics Acquisition, GEODynamics was not subject to these requirements. As such, at the time of the audit report relating to GEODynamics filed by us on Form 8-K with the SEC, GEODynamics' independent auditor did not meet the heightened standards otherwise required for auditing firms of public companies by the PCAOB.. -. 22. -. In addition, before we acquired it, GEODynamics was not subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are currently evaluating the strength of GEODynamics' internal control processes over financial reporting. As a smaller private company, GEODynamics did not operate under a fully documented system for accounting and internal control over financial reporting before we acquired it, and we may need to implement enhancements with respect to its internal controls over financial reporting.. Although we believe the financial information with respect to GEODynamics to be reliable, it is possible that adjustments to this financial information would have been made if the consolidated financial statements for this business would have been audited in accordance with PCAOB standards, or if GEODynamics had been subject to internal controls applicable to a public company under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.. The ultimate impact of recent tax reform may differ from the Company's estimates.. The ultimate impact of the recently enacted legislation in the United States commonly known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"Tax Reform Legislation\") may differ from the Company's estimates, possibly materially, due to changes in the interpretations and assumptions made by the Company as well as additional regulatory and accounting guidance that may be issued and actions the Company may take as a result of the Tax Reform Legislation.. We may not have adequate insurance for potential liabilities and our insurance may not cover certain liabilities, including litigation risks.. The products that we manufacture and the services that we provide are complex, and the failure of our equipment to operate properly or to meet specifications may greatly increase our customers' costs. In addition, many of these products are used in inherently hazardous applications where an accident or product failure can cause personal injury or loss of life, damages to property, equipment, or the environment, regulatory investigations and penalties, and the suspension or cancellation of the end-user's operations. If our products or services fail to meet specifications, or are involved in accidents or failures, we could face warranty, contract, or other litigation claims for which we may be held responsible and our reputation for providing quality products may suffer. In the ordinary course of business, we become the subject of various claims, lawsuits, and administrative proceedings, seeking damages or other remedies concerning our commercial operations, products, employees, and other matters, including occasional claims by individuals alleging exposure to hazardous materials as a result of our products or operations. Some of these claims relate to the activities of businesses that we have sold, and some relate to the activities of businesses that we have acquired, even though these activities may have occurred prior to our acquisition of such businesses.. We maintain insurance to cover many of our potential losses, and we are subject to various self-retentions and deductibles under our insurance policies. It is possible, however, that a judgment could be rendered against us in cases in which we could be uninsured and beyond the amounts that we currently have reserved or anticipate incurring for such matters. Even a partially uninsured or underinsured claim, if successful and of significant size, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or consolidated financial position. We also face the following other risks related to our insurance coverage:. • we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms;. • we may be faced with types of liabilities that will not be covered by our insurance, such as damages from environmental contamination or terrorist attacks;. • the counterparties to our insurance contracts may pose credit risks; and. • we may incur losses from interruption of our business that exceed our insurance coverage. Our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cybersecurity threats, and other disruptions.. We face various security threats, including cybersecurity threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable; threats to the safety of our employees; threats to the security of our facilities and infrastructure, or third-party facilities and infrastructure; and threats from terrorist acts. Cybersecurity attacks in particular are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, and corruption of data. Although we utilize various procedures and controls to monitor these threats and mitigate our exposure to such threats, there can be no assurance that these procedures and controls will be sufficient in preventing security threats from materializing. If any of these events were to materialize, they could lead to losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure, personnel or capabilities, essential to our operations, and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.. -. 23. -. We depend on several significant customers in each of our business segments, and the loss of one or more such customers or the inability of one or more such customers to meet their obligations to us, could adversely affect our results of operations.. We depend on several significant customers in each of our business segments. While no customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues in 2016 or 2015, Halliburton Company represented 16% of our consolidated revenues in 2017. The loss of a significant portion of customers in any of our business segments, or a sustained decrease in demand by any of such customers, could result in a substantial loss of revenues and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, the concentration of customers in one industry impacts our overall exposure to credit risk, in that customers may be similarly affected by changes in economic and industry conditions. While we perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers, we do not generally require collateral in support of our trade receivables.. As a result of our customer concentration, risks of nonpayment and nonperformance by our counterparties are a concern in our business. Many of our customers finance their activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt, or the issuance of equity. Many of our customers have experienced substantial reductions in their cash flows from operations, and some are experiencing liquidity shortages, lack of access to capital and credit markets, a reduction in borrowing bases under reserve-based credit facilities, and other adverse impacts to their financial condition. These conditions may result in a significant reduction in our customers' liquidity and ability to pay or otherwise perform on their obligations to us. The inability, or failure of, our significant customers to meet their obligations to us, or their insolvency or liquidation, may adversely affect our financial results.. We may assume contractual risks in developing, manufacturing and delivering products in our Offshore/Manufactured Products business segment.. Many of our products from our Offshore/Manufactured Products segment are ordered by customers under frame agreements or project-specific contracts. In some cases these contracts stipulate a fixed price for the delivery of our products and impose liquidated damages or late delivery fees if we do not meet specific customer deadlines. Our actual costs, and any gross profit realized on these fixed-price contracts, may vary from the initially expected contract economics. In addition, some customer contracts stipulate consequential damages payable, generally as a result of our gross negligence or willful misconduct. The final delivered products may also include customer and third-party supplied equipment, the delay of which can negatively impact our ability to deliver our products on time at our anticipated profitability.. In certain cases these orders include new technology or unspecified design elements. There is inherent risk in the estimation process including significant unforeseen technical and logistical challenges, or longer than expected lead times. In some cases we may not be fully, or, properly compensated for the cost to develop and design the final products, negatively impacting our profitability on the projects. In addition, our customers, in many cases, request changes to the original design or bid specifications for which we may not be fully or properly compensated.. In fulfilling some contracts, we provide limited warranties for our products. Although we estimate and record a provision for potential warranty claims, repair or replacement costs under warranty provisions in our contracts could exceed the estimated cost to cure the claim, which could be material to our financial results. We utilize percentage-of-completion accounting, depending on the size and length of a project, and variations from estimated contract performance could have a significant impact on our reported operating results as we progress toward completion of major jobs.. Backlog in our Offshore/Manufactured Products segment is subject to unexpected adjustments and cancellations and, therefore, has limitations as an indicator of our future revenues and earnings.. The revenues projected in our Offshore/Manufactured Products segment backlog may not be realized or, if realized, may not result in profits. Because of potential changes in the scope or schedule of our customers' projects, we cannot predict with certainty when or if backlog will be realized. Material delays, cancellations or payment defaults could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Reductions in our backlog due to cancellations or deferrals by customers, or for other reasons, would adversely affect, potentially to a material extent, the revenues and earnings we actually receive from contracts included in our backlog. Some of the contracts in our backlog are cancellable by the customer, subject to the payment of termination fees and/or the reimbursement of our costs incurred. We typically have no contractual right to the total revenues reflected in our backlog once a project is canceled. While backlog cancellations have not been significant in the past, we incurred cancellations totaling $3.5 million, $3.7 million and $21.1 million during 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. If commodity prices do not continue to improve, we may incur additional cancellations or experience continued declines in our backlog. If we experience significant project terminations, suspensions, or scope adjustments, to contracts included in our backlog, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, may be adversely impacted.. -. 24. -. We might be unable to employ a sufficient number of technical and service personnel.. Many of the products that we sell, especially in our Offshore/Manufactured Products segment, are complex and highly engineered, and often must perform in harsh conditions. We believe that our success depends upon our ability to employ and retain technical personnel with the ability to design, utilize, and enhance these products. In addition, our ability to expand our operations in each of our businesses depends in part on our ability to increase our skilled labor force. During periods of increased activity, the demand for skilled workers is high, and the supply is limited. When these events occur, our cost structure increases and our growth potential could be impaired. Conversely, during periods of reduced activity, we are forced to reduce headcount, freeze or reduce wages, and implement other cost-saving measures which could lead to job abandonment by our technical and service personnel.. We might be unable to compete successfully with other companies in our industry.. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and certain of them have relatively few barriers to entry. The principal competitive factors in our markets are product, equipment and service quality, availability, responsiveness, experience, technology, safety performance, and price. In some of our product and service offerings, we compete with the oil and natural gas industry's largest oilfield service providers. These large national and multi-national companies have longer operating histories, greater financial, technical, and other resources, and greater name recognition than we do. Several of our competitors provide a broader array of services and have a stronger presence in more geographic markets. In addition, we compete with many smaller companies capable of competing effectively on a regional or local basis. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and services, and changes in customer requirements. Many contracts are awarded on a bid basis, which further increases competition based on price. As a result of competition, we may lose market share or be unable to maintain or increase prices for our present services, or to acquire additional business opportunities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. If we do not develop new competitive technologies and products, our business and revenues may be adversely affected.. The market for our products and services is characterized by continual technological developments to provide better performance in increasingly greater water depths, higher pressure levels and harsher conditions. If we are unable to design, develop, and produce commercially, competitive products in a timely manner in response to changes in technology, our business and revenues will be adversely affected. In addition, competitors or customers may develop new technologies, which address similar or improved solutions to our existing technology. Additionally, the development and commercialization of new products and services requires substantial capital expenditures and we may not have access to needed capital at attractive rates or at all due to our financial condition, disruptions of the bank or capital markets, or other reasons beyond our control to continue these activities. Should our technologies become the less attractive solution, our operations and profitability would be negatively impacted.. We may be subject to litigation if another party claims that we have infringed upon its intellectual property rights.. The tools, techniques, methodologies, programs, and components we use to provide our products and services may infringe, or be alleged to infringe, upon the intellectual property rights of others. Infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs, and may distract management from running our core business. Royalty payments under a license from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. If a license was not available, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. During periods of strong demand, we may be unable to obtain critical project materials on a timely basis.. Our operations depend on our ability to procure, on a timely basis, certain project materials, such as forgings, to complete projects in an efficient manner. Our inability to procure critical materials during times of strong demand or at reasonable costs due to supply issues, import taxes or the like, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations.. Our oilfield operations involve a variety of operating hazards and risks that could cause losses.. Our operations are subject to the hazards inherent in the oilfield business. These include, but are not limited to, equipment defects, blowouts, explosions, spills, fires, collisions, capsizing, and severe weather conditions. These hazards could result in personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to, or destruction of, property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage, and suspension of operations. We may incur substantial liabilities or losses as a result of these hazards as part of our ongoing business operations. We may agree to indemnify our customers against specific risks and liabilities. While we maintain insurance protection against some of these risks, and seek to obtain indemnity agreements from our customers requiring the customers to hold us harmless from some of these risks, our insurance and contractual indemnity protection may not be sufficient or effective enough to protect us under all. -. 25. -. circumstances or against all risks. The occurrence of a significant event not fully insured or indemnified against or the failure of a customer to meet its indemnification obligations to us could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We might be unable to protect our intellectual property rights.. We rely on a variety of intellectual property rights that we use in our Offshore/Manufactured Products and Completion Services businesses, particularly our patents relating to our FlexJoint® and Merlin\231 technology and intervention and downhole extended-reach tools (including our HydroPull® tool) utilized in the completion or workover of oil and natural gas wells. The market success of our technologies will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain and enforce our proprietary rights in these technologies, to preserve rights in our trade secret and non-public information, and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We may not be able to successfully preserve these intellectual property rights in the future and these rights could be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. If any of our patents or other intellectual property rights are determined to be invalid or unenforceable, or if a court or other tribunal limits the scope of claims in a patent or fails to recognize our trade secret rights, our competitive advantages could be significantly reduced in the relevant technology, allowing competition for our customer base to increase. We are also a party to a proceeding that is currently being heard by the U.S. Supreme Court regarding whether inter partes review proceedings of intellectual property rights before an executive agency tribunal are constitutional, or whether the adjudication of patent validity must take place in Article III federal courts. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries in which our products and services may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The failure of our Company to protect our proprietary information and any successful intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings against us could adversely affect our competitive position.. The Spin-Off of Civeo may subject us to future liabilities.. We spun off (the \"Spin-Off\") our accommodations business to Civeo Corporation (\"Civeo\"), a stand-alone, publicly traded corporation, through a tax-free distribution to our stockholders on May 30, 2014.. Pursuant to agreements we entered into with Civeo in connection with the Spin-Off, we and Civeo are each generally responsible for the obligations and liabilities related to our respective businesses. Pursuant to those agreements, we and Civeo each agreed to cross-indemnities principally designed to allocate financial responsibility for the obligations and liabilities of our business to us and those of Civeo's business to it. However, third parties, including governmental agencies, could seek to hold us responsible for obligations and liabilities that Civeo agreed to retain or assume, and there can be no assurance that the indemnification from Civeo will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such obligations and liabilities, or that Civeo will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. Additionally, if a court were to determine that the Spin-Off or related transactions, including the payment of the dividend we received from Civeo, were consummated with the actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud current or future creditors or resulted in Civeo receiving less than reasonably equivalent value when it was insolvent, or that it was rendered insolvent, inadequately capitalized or unable to pay its debts as they become due, then it is possible that the court could disregard the allocation of obligations and liabilities agreed to between us and Civeo and impose substantial obligations and liabilities on us, void some or all of the Spin-Off transactions or require us to repay some or all of the dividend we received in connection with the Spin-Off. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our financial condition and our results of operations.. In connection with the Spin-Off, we received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") regarding certain aspects of the Spin-Off. The private letter ruling, and an opinion we received from our tax advisor, each rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from us and Civeo regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations, or undertakings are, or become, incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, we may not be able to rely on the private letter ruling or the opinion of our tax advisor and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. In addition, an opinion of counsel is not binding upon the IRS, so, notwithstanding the opinion of our tax advisor, the IRS could conclude upon audit that the Spin-Off is taxable in full or in part if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion, or for other reasons, including as a result of certain significant changes in our or Civeo's stock ownership. If the Spin-Off is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes for any reason, we and/or our stockholders could incur significant income tax liabilities.. The issuance or sale of shares of our common stock, or rights to acquire shares of our common stock, could depress the trading price of our common stock.. We may offer or issue our common stock, preferred stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for our common stock to finance our operations or fund acquisitions, or for other purposes. If we issue additional shares of our common stock or rights to acquire shares of our common stock, if any of our existing stockholders sells a substantial amount of our common. -. 26. -. stock, or if the market perceives that such issuances or sales may occur, then the trading price of our common stock may significantly decrease.. In connection with the GEODynamics Acquisition, we issued approximately 8.66 million shares of our common stock to the entity from whom we acquired that business, and we granted that entity and certain other selling stockholders registration rights pursuant to a registration rights agreement. On January 19, 2018, we filed a Registration Statement on Form S - 3 with the SEC registering the resale of the common stock issued to such selling stockholders. We also agreed under the registration rights agreement to, among other things, (i) facilitate up to two underwritten offerings for such selling stockholders, (ii) facilitate certain block trades for such selling stockholders and (iii) provide certain piggyback registration rights to such selling stockholders. We are unable to predict the effect that actions by such selling stockholders will have on the price at which our common stock trades."
