[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should consider carefully the following risks, along with other information contained in this Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that may affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties also may adversely affect our business and operations including those discussed in Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\" Any of the following events, should they actually occur, could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results.. Risk Factors Related to the Pending Merger with Bay Bancorp, Inc.. We may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the merger. The success of the pending merger with BYBK, as discussed above under \"Item 1  -  Business,\" will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from combining our business with BYBK's. To realize these anticipated benefits and cost savings, however, we must successfully combine the businesses of Old Line Bancshares and BYBK. If we are unable to do so, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected.. Old Line Bancshares and BYBK have operated and, until the completion of the merger, will continue to operate, independently. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the loss of key depositors or other bank customers and the disruption of our and BKBY's ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our and BKBY's ability to maintain their relationships with their respective clients, customers, depositors and employees, which could have a negative impact on our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. Integration efforts between the two companies may, to some extent, also divert management's attention and resources. These integration matters could have an adverse effect on each of Old Line Bancshares and BYBK during such transition period.. 16. The market price of our common stock may decline as a result of the merger.  The market price of our common stock may decline as a result of the merger if we do not achieve the perceived benefits of the merger or the effect of the merger on our financial results is not consistent with the expectations of financial or industry analysts. In addition, upon completion of the merger, Old Line Bancshares and BYBK stockholders will own interests in a combined company operating an expanded business with a different mix of assets, risks and liabilities. Existing Old Line Bancshares and BYBK stockholders may not wish to continue to invest in the combined company, or for other reasons may wish to dispose of some or all of their shares of the combined company. The disposition of a large number of shares of our common stock after the merger, or the expectation that such sales may occur, could negatively affect the market price of our common stock.. The market price of our common stock after the merger may be affected by factors different from those affecting our shares currently. The businesses of Old Line Bancshares and BYBK differ and, accordingly, the results of operations of the combined company and the market price of the combined company's shares of common stock may be affected by factors different from those currently affecting the independent results of operations and market prices of our common stock.. We are subject to business uncertainties while the merger is pending. Uncertainty about the effect of the merger on employees, customers, suppliers and vendors may have an adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations of Old Line Bancshares and BYBK. These uncertainties may impair Old Line Bancshares' and BYBK's ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel, depositors and borrowers pending the consummation of the merger, as such personnel, depositors and borrowers may experience uncertainty about their future roles following the consummation of the merger. Additionally, these uncertainties could cause customers (including depositors and borrowers), suppliers, vendors and others who deal with us or BYBK to seek to change existing business relationships with us or BYBK or fail to extend an existing relationship. In addition, competitors may target each company's existing customers by highlighting potential uncertainties and integration difficulties that may result from the merger.. Further, the pursuit of the merger and the preparation for the integration in connection therewith may place a burden on each of Old Line Bancshares' and BYBK management and internal resources. Any significant diversion of management attention away from ongoing business concerns and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations both before and after consummation of the merger.. If the merger is not completed, we will have incurred substantial expenses without realizing the expected benefits. We have incurred substantial expenses in connection with the execution of the merger agreement and the merger. The completion of the merger depends on the satisfaction of specified conditions, including the receipt of required regulatory approvals and the requisite approval of the stockholders of Old Line Bancshares and BYBK. There is no guarantee that these conditions will be met. If the merger is not completed, these expenses could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition because we would not have realized the expected benefits for which these expenses were incurred.. Regulatory approvals may not be received, may take longer than expected or impose conditions that are not presently anticipated. Before the merger may be completed, we must obtain various regulatory approvals. The required regulatory approvals may not be received at all, may not be received in a timely fashion, and may contain conditions on the completion of the merger or require changes to the terms of the merger that are not anticipated or that have a material adverse effect. Although we do not currently expect that any such conditions or changes would be imposed, there can be no assurance that they will not be, and such conditions or changes could have the effect of delaying completion of the merger or imposing additional costs on or limiting our revenues following the merger, any of which might have a material adverse effect on us following the merger. If the consummation of the merger is delayed, including by a delay in receipt of necessary regulatory approvals, our business, financial condition and results of operations may also be materially adversely affected.. 17. Failure to complete the merger could negatively impact our stock price, business and financial results. If the merger is not completed, our business be adversely affected and we will be subject to several risks, including the following:. •We may be required, under certain circumstances, to pay BYBK a termination fee of $5,076,000 under the merger agreement;. •We will be required to pay certain costs relating to the merger, whether or not the merger is completed, such as legal, accounting, financial advisor and printing fees; and. •Matters relating to the merger may require substantial commitments of management time and resources that could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have been beneficial to Old Line Bancshares as an independent company.. In addition, if the merger is not completed, we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets and from our stockholders, customers and employees. We also could be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the merger or to enforcement proceedings commenced against us to perform our obligations under the merger agreement.. If the merger is not completed, we cannot assure our stockholders that the risks described above will not materialize and will not materially affect our business, financial results and stock price.. Pending litigation related to the merger may delay or prevent the merger and could us to incur significant costs and expenses. Adam Franchi, both individually and on behalf of a putative class of BYBK's stockholders, filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the District of Maryland against BYBK and its directors as well as Old Line Bancshares. The complaint asks the Court, among other things, to enjoin the parties from proceeding with the merger based, primarily, on allegations that the version of the joint proxy statement/prospectus that was filed with the SEC on November 22, 2017 omitted certain material information in violation of Section 14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the \"Exchange Act\"), and Rule 14a-9 promulgated thereunder. If the merger is consummated prior to the time these claims are adjudicated, then the plaintiff has asked the Court to rescind the merger and set it aside or award rescissory damages. This litigation could delay or even prevent the merger and has caused Old Line Bancshares and BYBK to incur, and will likely cause Old Line Bancshares and BYBK to incur additional, significant legal fees and other costs to defend the claims, which could adversely impact the financial condition and results of operations of BYBK and Old Line Bancshares, both before and after the merger. No assurance can be given that Old Line Bancshares, BYBK or the directors of BYBK will be successful in the defense of these claims.. BYBK's loan portfolio is concentrated in commercial and real estate and in certain geographic areas. BYBK's commercial loans, including commercial real estate loans and commercial and industrial loans, totaled $312 million as of September 30, 2017, or 59% of its loan portfolio, while its residential real estate loans totaled $145 million, or 28% of its loan portfolio. Additionally, its construction loans totaled $29 million as of September 30, 2017, or 6% of its loan portfolio. Approximately 98% of BYBK's loans were originated in Maryland. Commercial lending generally carries a higher degree of credit risk than do residential mortgage loans because of several factors including larger loan balances, dependence on the successful operation of a business or a project for repayment, or loan terms with a balloon payment rather than full amortization over the loan term. Further, any weakness in the real estate market could adversely affect Bay Bank's customers, which in turn could adversely impact its loan portfolio.. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses and an increase in charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of BYBK and, upon consummation of the merger, of Old Line Bancshares.. Risk Factors Related to Old Line Bancshares' Business. System failure or cybersecurity breaches of our network security could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other potential losses. We are subject to certain operational risks including, but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors, inadequate or failed internal processes, customer or employee fraud, cybersecurity breaches, and catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts or natural disasters. We rely heavily on data processing, software, communications and information systems on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the Internet to conduct our business. Despite instituted safeguards, we cannot be certain that that all of our systems and our network infrastructure are entirely free from vulnerability to attack or other technological difficulties or failures.. 18. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect the computer systems and network infrastructure we use, including our Internet banking activities, against damage from physical break-ins, cybersecurity breaches and other disruptive problems caused by Internet problems, other users or unrelated third parties. Such computer break-ins and other disruptions would jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customers, and inhibit current and potential customers from using our Internet banking services, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Information security risks have increased significantly due to the use of online, telephone and mobile banking channels by clients and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists and other external parties. Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and we may not be able to anticipate or prevent all such attacks. While we do not believe we have experienced a material cyber-security breach, we experience periodic threats to our data, systems and networks, including cyber-attacks, malware and computer virus attacks, malicious code, phishing attacks, attempted unauthorized access of accounts and attempts to disrupt our systems. Our clients' devices, from which they may access our Internet banking services [or mobile apps], are also subject to the same threats. Such threats are likely to continue, and may result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our clients' confidential, proprietary and other information, the theft of client assets through fraudulent transactions or disruption of our or our clients' or other third parties' business operations. We may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize these risks, and could be held liable for, lose business and suffer reputational damage as a result of any security breach or loss. We periodically review our security protocols and, as necessary, add additional security measures to our computer systems and network infrastructure to mitigate the possibility of cybersecurity breaches, including firewalls and penetration testing. These precautions may not, however, be effective in preventing such breaches, damage or failures. We continue to monitor developments in this area and consider whether additional protective measures are necessary or appropriate, and we have obtained insurance protection intended to cover losses due to network security breaches; there is no guarantee, however, that such insurance would cover all costs associated with any breach, damage or failure of our computer systems and network infrastructure.. We have a comprehensive policy related to cybersecurity risks, and cybersecurity incidents are reported quarterly to our risk committee, which consists of members of both management and our board of directors. In the event of a material breach, damage or failure of our computer system or network, we will issue the appropriate disclosures. Any system failure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on certain external vendors. Our business is dependent on the use of outside service providers that support our day-to-day operations including data processing and electronic communications. Our operations are exposed to the risk that a service provider may not perform in accordance with established performance standards required in our agreements for any number of reasons including equipment or network failure, a change in their senior management, their financial condition, their product line or mix and how they support existing customers, or a simple change in their strategic focus. While we have comprehensive policies and procedures in place to mitigate risk at all phases of service provider management from selection to performance monitoring and renewals, the failure of a service provider to perform in accordance with contractual agreements could be disruptive to our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions and results of our operations.. Adverse changes in economic conditions could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business and earnings are affected by general business conditions in the United States as well as in our local market area. Changes in prevailing economic conditions, including declining real estate values, changes in interest rates that may cause a decrease in interest rate spreads, adverse employment conditions, the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and other significant external events may adversely affect our financial results. We continue to operate in a challenging and uncertain economic environment. Since the recession ended almost nine years ago, economic growth has been slow by historic standards and uneven. Further, the current expansion is already the third longest in U.S. history, and many economists believe that the risk of a recession in the medium-term (2019-2020) is increasing. A return to recessionary conditions or prolonged stagnant or deteriorating economic conditions could significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the demand for our products and services, the value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. In any case, we expect that the business environment in the State of Maryland and the entire United States will continue to present challenges for the foreseeable future. Economic uncertainties even outside a recession, including concerns about U.S. debt levels and related governmental actions, tariffs on imports into the United States, Congress' inability to pass yearly budgets, and cuts in government spending, may negatively impact economic conditions going forward. A return to elevated levels of unemployment, declines in the values of real estate, or other events that negatively affect household and/or corporate incomes may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies, increases in our nonperforming and criticized classified assets and a decline in demand for our products and services. Any of these events may cause us to incur losses and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. 19. Although the adverse economic climate during the past several years has not severely impacted us due to our strict underwriting standards, any adverse changes in the economy going forward, including decreases in current real estate values, increased unemployment or the economy moving back into a recession, could have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings.. A worsening of credit markets and economic conditions could adversely affect our liquidity. Old Line Bank must maintain sufficient liquidity to ensure cash flow is available to satisfy current and future financial obligations including demand for loans and deposit withdrawals, funding of operating costs and other corporate purposes. We obtain funding through deposits and various short term and long term wholesale borrowings, including federal funds purchased, unsecured borrowings, brokered certificates of deposits and borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta (the \"FHLB\") and others. Economic uncertainty and disruptions in the financial system may adversely affect our liquidity. Dramatic declines in the housing market and falling real estate prices coupled with increased foreclosures and unemployment, resulted in significant asset value write downs by financial institutions during and after the last U.S. recession, including government sponsored entities and investment banks. These investment write downs caused financial institutions to seek additional capital. Should we experience a substantial deterioration in our financial condition or should disruptions in the financial markets restrict our funding, it would negatively impact our liquidity. To mitigate this risk, we closely monitor our liquidity and maintain a line of credit with the FHLB and have received approval to borrow from the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond.. Our concentrations of loans in various categories may also increase the risk of credit losses. We currently invest more than 25% of our capital in various loan types and industry segments, including commercial real estate loans and loans to the hospitality industry (hotels/motels). While declines in the local commercial real estate market following the last recession have not caused the collateral securing our loans to exceed acceptable loan to value ratios, a deterioration in the commercial real estate market could cause deterioration in the collateral securing these loans and/or a decline in our customers' earning capacity. This could negatively impact us. Although we have made a large portion of our hospitality loans to long-term, well-established operators in strategic locations, a decline in the occupancy rate in these facilities could negatively impact their earnings. This could adversely impact the operators' ability to repay their loans, which would adversely impact our net income.. Our need to comply with extensive and complex governmental regulation could have an adverse effect on our business and growth strategy, and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. The banking industry is subject to extensive regulation by state and federal banking authorities. Many of these regulations are intended to protect depositors, the public or the FDIC insurance funds, not stockholders. Regulatory requirements affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, ability to attract and retain personnel and many other aspects of our business. These requirements may constrain our rate of growth and changes in regulations could adversely affect us. The cost of compliance with regulatory requirements could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Further, if we are not in compliance with such requirements, we could be subject to fines or other regulatory action that could restrict our ability to operate or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Although we believe we are in material compliance with all applicable regulations, it is possible there are violations of which we are unaware that could be discovered by our regulators in the course of an examination or otherwise, which could trigger such fines or other adverse consequences.. In addition, because regulation of financial institutions changes regularly and is the subject of constant legislative debate, we cannot forecast how federal or state regulation of financial institutions may change in the future and impact our operations. In light of the performance of and government intervention in the financial sector, there may be significant changes to the banking and financial institutions' regulatory agencies in the future. Changes in regulation and oversight, including in the form of changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies or changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the services and products we offer, increase our operating expenses, increase compliance challenges and otherwise adversely impact our financial performance and condition. In addition, the burden imposed by these federal and state regulations may place banks in general, and Old Line Bank specifically, at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors.. 20. Non-Compliance with the USA PATRIOT Act, the Bank Secrecy Act or other laws and regulations could result in fines or sanctions. Financial institutions are required under the USA PATRIOT and Bank Secrecy Acts to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money-laundering and terrorist activities. Financial institutions are also obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network if such activities are detected. These rules also require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure or the inability to comply with these regulations could result in fines or penalties, curtailment of expansion opportunities, intervention or sanctions by regulators and costly litigation or expensive additional controls and systems. During the last few years, several banking institutions have received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations. In addition, the U.S. Government has previously imposed laws and regulations relating to residential and consumer lending activities that create significant new compliance burdens and financial risks. While we have developed policies and procedures designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that these policies and procedures will be effective in preventing violations of these laws and regulations. Requirements to hold more capital could have a material adverse impact on us. The impact of the revised capital rules on our financial condition and operations is uncertain but could be materially adverse. In July 2013, the Federal Reserve Board adopted a final rule for the Basel III capital framework. These rules substantially amended the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to us and increased the minimum levels of capital we are required to hold, as discussed in \"Item 1. Business  -  Supervision and Regulation  -  Capital Adequacy Guidelines.\" The rules apply to Old Line Bancshares as well as to the Bank. These rules include a capital conservation buffer that phases in over a period of years that began in 2016 and will become fully effective in 2019. Failure to satisfy the additional capital requirements of the capital conservation buffer will result in limits on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases and paying discretionary bonuses. The rules establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that may be utilized for such actions if the capital requirements of the buffer are not fully satisfied. Beginning January 1, 2018, our capital requirements with the applicable capital conservation buffer are (i) a common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.375%, (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based capital (common Tier 1 capital plus Additional Tier 1 capital) ratio of 7.875% and (iii) a total risk-based capital ratio of 9.875%. The capital conservation buffer does not apply to our leverage ratio requirement, which will remain at 4.0%. Once the capital conservation buffer is fully phased in on January 1, 2019, the resulting requirements will be a common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 7.0%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8.5%, and a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.5%. These increased capital requirements may have a material adverse impact on our liquidity and results of operations, or the failure to satisfy such requirements may result in our inability to pay dividends on or repurchase shares of our common stock, which could also negatively impact the market price for our stock, and may negatively impact our ability to retain personnel if our ability to pay retention bonuses is compromised.. Our internal controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well-designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any (a) failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures, (b) failure to adequately address any internal control deficiencies, or (c) failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material effect on our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations.. Our business may be adversely affected by increasing prevalence of fraud and other financial crimes. As a financial institution, we are subject to risk of loss due to fraud and other financial crimes. Nationally, reported incidents of fraud and other financial crimes have increased. We believe we have controls in place to detect and prevent such losses, but in some cases multi-party collusion or other sophisticated methods of hiding fraud may not be readily detected or detectable, and could result in losses that affect our financial condition and results of operations.. 21. Financial crime is not limited to the financial services industry. Our customers could experience fraud in their businesses, which could materially impact their ability to repay their loans, and deposit customers in all financial institutions are constantly and unwittingly solicited by others in fraud schemes that vary from easily detectable and obvious attempts to high-level and very complex international schemes that could drain an account of millions of dollars and require detailed financial forensics to unravel. While we have controls in place, contractual agreements with our customers partitioning liability, and insurance to help mitigate the risk, none of these are guarantees that we will not experience a loss, potentially a loss that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, reputation and results of operations.. The level of our commercial real estate loan portfolio may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny. The FDIC, the Federal Reserve Board and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency have promulgated joint guidance on sound risk management practices for financial institutions with concentrations in commercial real estate lending. Under this guidance, a financial institution that, like us, is actively involved in commercial real estate lending should perform a risk assessment to identify concentrations. A financial institution may have a concentration in commercial real estate lending if, among other factors (i) total reported loans for construction, land development and other land represent 100% or more of total capital, or (ii) total reported loans secured by multi-family and non-farm non-residential properties, loans for construction, land development and other land, and loans otherwise sensitive to the general commercial real estate market, including loans to commercial real estate related entities, represent 300% or more of total capital. The particular focus of the guidance is on exposure to commercial real estate loans that are dependent on the cash flow from the real estate held as collateral and that are likely to be at greater risk to conditions in the commercial real estate market (as opposed to real estate collateral held as a secondary source of repayment or as an abundance of caution). The purpose of the guidance is to guide banks in developing risk management practices and capital levels commensurate with the level and nature of real estate concentrations. The guidance states that management should employ heightened risk management practices including board and management oversight and strategic planning, development of underwriting standards, risk assessment and monitoring through market analysis and stress testing. We have concluded that we have a concentration in commercial real estate lending under the foregoing standards because our balance in commercial real estate loans at December 31, 2017 represents more than 300% of total capital. While we believe we have implemented policies and procedures with respect to our commercial real estate loan portfolio consistent with this guidance, bank regulators could require us to implement additional policies and procedures consistent with their interpretation of the guidance that may result in additional costs to us.. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about our clients and counterparties and our financial condition could be adversely affected if we rely on misleading information. In deciding whether to extend credit or to enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information, which we do not independently verify as a matter of course. We also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to customers, we may assume that a customer's audited financial statements conform with Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (\"U.S. GAAP\") and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent we rely on financial statements that do not comply with U.S. GAAP or are materially misleading.. We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by Old Line Bank cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to Old Line Bank. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 22. Because we serve a limited market area in Maryland, we are susceptible to economic downturns in our market area. Our lending and deposit operations are concentrated in the suburban Maryland counties of Anne Arundel, Baltimore, Calvert, Carroll, Charles, Montgomery, Prince George’s, St. Mary’s and Frederick. If the pending merger with BYBK is consummated this market area will expand into Baltimore City and Baltimore, Harford and Howard Counties, Maryland, and we may expand into contiguous counties at some point in the future. Broad geographic diversification, however, is not currently part of our community bank focus. As a result, our success depends in part on economic conditions in our market area. Adverse changes in economic conditions in our primary market area could reduce our deposit base and demand for our services and products and negatively impact growth in our loans and deposits, impair our ability to collect on our outstanding loans, increase credit losses, problem loans and charge-offs, and otherwise negatively affect our performance and financial condition. Declines in real estate values could cause some of our residential and commercial real estate loans to be inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss in the event that the recovery on amounts due on defaulted loans is resolved by selling the real estate collateral. In addition, adverse changes in economic conditions in and around our market area may more severely impact our business and financial condition than our larger, more geographically diverse competitors. In particular, due to the proximity of our market area to Washington, D.C., decreases in spending by the Federal government or threatened cuts to Federal government employment could impact us to a greater degree than banking companies that serve a larger or a different geographical area. Our larger competitors, for example, serve more geographically diverse market areas, parts of which may not be affected by the same economic conditions that may exist in our market area. Further, unexpected changes in the national and local economy may adversely affect our ability to attract deposits and to make loans. Such risks are beyond our control and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and, in turn, the value of our securities.. We originate and retain in our portfolio residential mortgage loans. A downturn in the local real estate market and economy could adversely affect our earnings. Our loan portfolio includes residential mortgage loans that we originate. Although the local real estate market and economy in our market areas have performed better than many other markets during the past few years, a downturn could cause higher unemployment; and more delinquencies, and could adversely affect the value of properties securing our loans. In addition, the real estate market may take longer to recover or not recover to previous levels. These risks increase the probability of an adverse impact on our financial results as fewer borrowers would be eligible to borrow and property values could be below necessary levels required for adequate coverage on the requested loan.. Changes in tax laws may negatively impact our financial performance. Changes in tax laws contained in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"TCJA\"), which was enacted in December 2017, contain a number of provisions that could have an impact on the banking industry, borrowers and the market for single family residential and multifamily residential real estate. Among the changes are: lower limits on the deductibility of mortgage interest on single family residential mortgages; limitations on deductibility of business interest expense; and limitations on the deductibility of property taxes and state and local income taxes. Such changes may have an adverse effect on the market for and valuation of single family residential properties and multifamily residential properties, as well as on the demand for such loans in the future. If home ownership or multifamily residential property ownership become less attractive, demand for mortgage loans would decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our residential mortgage originations and loan resales and as a result our revenues, net income, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the value of the properties securing loans in our portfolio may be adversely impacted as a result of the changing economics of home ownership and multifamily residential ownership, which could require an increase in our provision for credit losses, which would reduce our profitability and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, certain borrowers could become less able to service their debts as a result of higher tax obligations. These changes could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to liquidity risks. Market conditions could negatively affect the level or cost of available liquidity, which would affect our ongoing ability to accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet contractual obligations, and fund asset growth and new business transactions at a reasonable cost, in a timely manner, and without adverse consequences. Deposits are our primary source of funding, but this is supplemented by FHLB advances and other borrowings. A significant decrease in our deposits, an inability to renew FHLB advances or access other borrowings, an inability to obtain alternative funding to deposits or our other traditional sources of funds, or a substantial, unexpected, or prolonged change in the level or cost of liquidity could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on the services of key personnel. The loss of any of these personnel could disrupt our operations and our business could suffer. Our success depends substantially on the skills and abilities of our executive management team, including James W. Cornelsen, President and Chief Executive Officer, Jack Welborn, Executive Vice President and Chief Lending Officer, John Miller, Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer, Mark A. Semanie, Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer and Elise M. Hubbard, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Although we have entered into employment agreement with Messrs. Cornelsen, Miller and Semanie, the existence of such agreements does not assure that we will retain their services. These executives provide valuable services to us and would be difficult to replace.. 23. Also, our growth and success and our anticipated future growth and success, in a large part, is due and will continue to be due to the relationships maintained by our banking executives with our customers. The loss of services of one or more of these executives or of other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our business could suffer. The experienced commercial lenders that we have hired are not a party to any employment agreement with us and they could terminate their employment with us at any time and for any reason.. Our growth and expansion strategy may not be successful. Our ability to grow depends upon our ability to attract new deposits, identify loan and investment opportunities and maintain adequate capital levels. We may also grow through acquisitions of existing financial institutions or branches thereof, as we are doing with the pending merger with BYBK. There are no guarantees that our expansion strategies will be successful. Also, in order to effectively manage our anticipated and/or actual loan growth we have made and may continue to make additional investments in equipment and personnel, which could increase our non-interest expense. If we grow too quickly and are not able to control costs and maintain asset quality, such growth could materially and adversely affect our financial performance.. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will decrease. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate for absorbing any potential losses in our loan portfolio. Our management, through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses. Although we believe the allowance for loan losses is adequate to absorb probable losses in our loan portfolio, we cannot predict such losses with certainty. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. If management's assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb future losses, our earnings will suffer.. As of December 31, 2017, commercial and industrial and commercial real estate mortgage loans comprise approximately 78.21% of our loan portfolio. It is more difficult to estimate loan losses for these types of loans as compared to, for example, residential mortgage loans. Further, these types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate or consumer loans and typically have larger balances than residential real estate loans and consumer loans. A deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in non-performing loans. Such an increase could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has adopted a new accounting standard that will become effective for us on January 1, 2020. This standard, referred to as Current Expected Credit Loss, or CECL, will require financial institutions to determine periodic estimates of lifetime expected credit losses on loans and recognize the expected credit losses as allowances for credit losses. This will change the current method of providing allowances for credit losses that are probable, which would likely require us to increase our allowance for credit losses, and to greatly increase the types of data we would need to collect and review to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for credit losses.. We have relatively limited experience with the performance of loans acquired in our recent acquisitions of DCB and Regal Bancorp, and will have no experience with the performance of the loans we acquire in the BYBK merger. Certain of our estimates related to accounting for acquired loans may differ from actual results. We acquired DCB in July 2017 and Regal Bancorp in December 2015, and expect to complete our acquisition of BYBK during the second quarter of 2018. It is difficult to assess the future performance of loans recently added to our portfolio as part of these recent acquisitions, and will be difficult to assess the future performance of loans that will be added to our portfolio in the BYBK acquisition, because our relatively limited experience with such loans does not and will not provide us with a significant history from which to judge future collectability. These loans may experience higher delinquency or charge-off levels than our historical loan portfolio experience, which could adversely affect our future performance.. 24. In addition, under generally accepted principles for business combinations, there is no loan loss allowance initially recorded for acquired loans, which are recorded at net fair value on the acquisition date. This net fair value generally includes embedded loss estimates for acquired loans with deteriorated credit quality. These estimates are based on projections of expected cash flows for these problem loans, which in many cases rely on estimates deriving from the liquidation of collateral.. If the estimates we make and have made regarding the performance of loans we have acquired are inadequate, the fair value estimates may exceed the actual collectability of the balances, and this may result in the related loans being considered by us as impaired, which would result in a reduction in interest income. The tangible book value we measure is based in part on these estimates, and if fair value estimates differ from actual collectability, then subsequent earnings may also differ from original estimates. Measures of tangible book value and earnings impact of business combinations are frequently used in evaluating the merits and value of business combinations. Numerous assumptions and estimates are integral to purchased loan accounting, and actual results could be different from prior estimates.. Our profitability depends on interest rates and changes in monetary policy may impact us. Our results of operations depends to a large extent on our \"net interest income,\" which is the difference between the interest income received from our interest earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest expense incurred in connection with our interest bearing liabilities, such as interest on deposit accounts. Interest rates, because they are influenced by, among other things, expectations about future events, including the level of economic activity, federal monetary and fiscal policy, and geopolitical stability, are not predictable or controllable. Additionally, competitive factors heavily influence the interest rates we can earn on our loan and investment portfolios and the interest rates we pay on our deposits. Community banks are often at a competitive disadvantage in managing their cost of funds compared to the large regional, super-regional or national banks that have access to the national and international capital markets. These factors influence our ability to maintain a stable net interest margin.. We seek to maintain a neutral position in terms of the volume of assets and liabilities that mature or reprice during any period so that we may reasonably predict our net interest margin. Interest rate fluctuations, loan prepayments, loan production and deposit flows, however, are constantly changing and influence our ability to maintain this neutral position. Generally speaking, our earnings are more sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates the greater the variance in the volume of assets and liabilities that mature and reprice in any period. The extent and duration of the sensitivity will depend on the cumulative variance over time, the velocity and direction of interest rates, and whether we are more asset than liability sensitive. Accordingly, we may not be successful in maintaining this neutral position and, as a result, our net interest margin may suffer.. Furthermore, the Federal Reserve Board, in an attempt to help the overall economy, has among other things kept interest rates low through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of U.S. Treasury and mortgage-backed securities. If the Federal Reserve Board continues to increase the federal funds rate in the near term, as is expected, overall interest rates will likely rise, which may negatively impact the housing markets and the U.S. economic growth. In addition, an increase in interest rates may, among other things, reduce loan demand and our ability to originate loans (which would also decrease our ability to generate noninterest income through the sale of loans into the secondary market), and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans or otherwise decrease loan repayment rates. Further, as market interest rates rise, we may experience competitive pressures to increase the rates we pay on deposits. Because interest rates we pay on our deposits could be expected to increase more quickly than the increase in the yields we earn on our interest-earning assets, our net interest income would be adversely affected. In addition, deflationary pressures, while possibly lowering our operating costs, could have a negative impact on our borrowers, especially our business borrowers, and the values of collateral securing our loans, which could negatively affect our financial performance.. We also are subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the interest rates on existing loans and securities.. 25. We face substantial competition that could adversely affect our growth and operating results. We operate in a competitive market for financial services and face intense competition from other financial institutions both in making loans and in attracting deposits. Many of these financial institutions have been in business for many years, are significantly larger, and have established customer bases and greater financial resources and lending limits than we do, and are able to offer certain products and services that we are not able to offer. There are also a number of smaller community-based banks that pursue operating strategies similar to ours.. We expect competitive pressures to continue to build as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and as the financial services industry continues to consolidate. Technological advances, for example, have lowered barriers to entry, allowed banks to expand their geographic reach by providing services over the Internet and made it possible for non-depository institutions to offer products and services that traditionally have been provided by banks; we expect competition to increase in this regard as additional non-bank investment and financial services options for consumers become available and consumers become increasingly comfortable using such alternatives. Competition for deposits and the origination of loans could limit our ability to successfully implement our business plan, and if we cannot attract deposits and make loans at a sufficient level, our operating results will suffer, as will our opportunities for growth.. Furthermore, competition in the banking and financial services industry is coming not only from traditional competitors but from technology-oriented financial services (\"FinTech\") companies, which are subject to limited regulation. They offer user friendly front-end, quick turnaround times for loans and other benefits. While we are considering the possibility of developing relationships with FinTech companies for efficiency in processing and/or as a source of loans and other, we cannot limit the possibility that our customers or future prospects will work directly with a FinTech company instead. This could impact our growth and profitability going forward.. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions. Technology and other changes are allowing consumers to complete financial transactions through alternative methods that historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that they have historically held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts, mutual funds or general-purpose reloadable prepaid cards. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, which may increase as consumers become more comfortable with these new technologies and offerings, could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost of deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We continually encounter technological change. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology driven by new or modified products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse effect on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations.. Our investment securities portfolio is subject to credit risk, market risk, and liquidity risk. Our investment securities portfolio is subject to risks beyond our control that may significantly influence its fair value. These include, but are not limited to, rating agency downgrades of the securities, defaults of the issuers of the securities, lack of market pricing of the securities, and instability in the credit markets. Lack of market activity with respect to some securities has, in certain circumstances, required us to base their fair market valuation on unobservable inputs. Any changes in these risk factors, in current accounting principles or interpretations of these principles could impact our assessment of fair value and thus the determination of other-than-temporary impairment of the securities in the investment securities portfolio. Investment securities that previously were determined to be other-than-temporarily impaired could require further write-downs due to continued erosion of the creditworthiness of the issuer. Write-downs of investment securities would negatively affect our earnings and regulatory capital ratios.. 26. Further, we have designated all of our investment securities portfolio (or 10.4% of total assets) at December 31, 2017 as available for sale. We \"mark to market\" temporary unrealized gains and losses in the estimated value of the available for sale portfolio and reflect this adjustment as a separate item in stockholders' equity, net of taxes. As of December 31, 2017, we had temporary unrealized losses in our available for sale portfolio of $2.3 million (net of taxes). If the market value of the investment portfolio declines, this could cause a corresponding decline in stockholders' equity. Further, adverse changes in economic conditions could cause municipalities to report budget deficits and companies continue to report lower earnings, as happened in the last recession. Any such budget deficits and lower earnings could cause temporary and other than temporary impairment charges in our investment securities portfolio and cause us to report lower net income and a decline in stockholders' equity.. Impairment in the carrying value of goodwill could negatively impact our earnings. At December 31, 2017, goodwill totaled $25.0 million. We expect to recognized approximately $54.7 million in additional goodwill in connection with the pending acquisition of BYBK. Goodwill represents the excess purchase price paid over the fair value of the net assets acquired in a business combination. The estimated fair values of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities may be subject to refinement as additional information relative to closing date fair values becomes available and may result in adjustments to goodwill within the first 12 months following the closing date of the relevant acquisition. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. There could be a requirement to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill prior to the normal annual assessment if there is a disruption in our business, unexpected significant declines in operating results, or sustained market capitalization declines. These types of events and the resulting analyses could result in goodwill impairment charges in the future, which would adversely affect the results of operations. A goodwill impairment charge does not adversely affect regulatory capital ratios or tangible capital. Based on an analysis, we determined that the fair value of our reporting units exceeded the carrying value of their assets and liabilities and, therefore, goodwill was not considered impaired at December 31, 2017.. Risks Related to our Common Stock. We may issue shares of common stock in the future in connection with acquisitions or otherwise, and any such issuances could be at varying prices and dilute your ownership of Old Line Bancshares. We may use our common stock to acquire other companies or to make investments in banks and other complementary businesses in the future. We may also issue common stock, or securities convertible into common stock, through public or private offerings, in order to raise additional capital in connection with future acquisitions, to satisfy regulatory capital requirements or for general corporate purposes. We have an effective shelf registration statement on Form S-3 on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (\"SEC\") pursuant to which we may, from time to time, sell up to an aggregate of $100 million of our common stock, preferred stock, warrants, units and debt securities. The existence of such shelf registration statement allows us to sell securities quickly from time to time as market conditions warrant. Any such common stock issuances, or issuance of other securities under which shares of common stock may be issued, could be dilutive to our other stockholders.. Our future acquisitions, if any, may cause us to become more susceptible to adverse economic events. While we currently have no agreements to acquire additional financial institutions, other than BYBK, we may do so in the future if an attractive acquisition opportunity arises that is consistent with our business plan. Any future business acquisitions could be material to us, and the degree of success achieved in acquiring and integrating these businesses into Old Line Bancshares could have a material effect on the value of our common stock. In addition, any acquisition could require us to use substantial cash or other liquid assets or to incur debt. In those events, we could become more susceptible to future economic downturns and competitive pressures.. We face limits on our ability to lend. The amount of our capital limits the amount that we can loan to a single borrower. Generally, under current law, we may lend up to 15% of our unimpaired capital and surplus to any one borrower. As of December 31, 2017, we were able to lend approximately $31.9 million to any one borrower. This amount is significantly less than that of many of our larger competitors and may discourage potential borrowers who have credit needs in excess of our legal lending limit from doing business with us. We generally try to accommodate larger loans by selling participations in those loans to other financial institutions, but this strategy is not always available. We may not be able to attract or maintain customers seeking larger loans and we may not be able to sell participations in such loans on terms we consider favorable.. 27. Additional capital may not be available when needed or required by regulatory authorities. Federal and state regulatory authorities require us to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance future acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect or our regulators may require that we raise additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control. Conditions in the capital markets may be such that traditional sources of capital may not be available to us on reasonable terms if we needed to raise additional capital. Accordingly, we may not be able to raise additional capital if needed or on terms that are favorable or otherwise not dilutive to existing stockholders. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, or on desirable terms, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We may not have adequately assessed the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities. Current accounting guidance requires that we record assets and liabilities at their estimated fair values on the purchase date. The determination of fair value requires that we consider a number of factors including the remaining life of the acquired loans and deposits, estimated prepayments or withdrawals, estimated loss ratios, estimated value of the underlying collateral, and the net present value of expected cash flows. Actual deviations from these predicted cash flows, maturities or repayments or the underlying value of the collateral may mean that our present value determination is inaccurate. This may cause fluctuations in interest income, non-interest income, provision expense, interest expense and non-interest expense and negatively impact our results of operations.. The market price of our common stock can be volatile.  Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for an investor to resell our common stock when desired and at attractive prices. The market price of our common stock can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things:. •actual or anticipated variations in our operating results;. •changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts or others in the industry;. •changes in the regulatory or legal environment in which we operate;. •news reports or other publicity relating to Old Line Bancshares or our competitors or relating to trends in our industry;. •perceptions in the marketplace regarding Old Line Bancshares and/or its competitors;. •future sales of common stock;. •the announcement of a significant acquisition or business combination, strategic partnership, joint venture or capital commitment by or involving Old Line Bancshares or its competitors; and. •geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts.. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events in the U.S. or globally, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results.. Shares of our common stock are equity interests and therefore subordinate to our existing and future indebtedness and preferred stock we may issue in the future. Shares of our common stock are equity interests in Old Line Bancshares and do not constitute indebtedness. As such, shares of our common stock rank junior to all indebtedness and other non-equity claims on us with respect to assets available to satisfy claims, including upon its liquidation. Holders of our common stock are also subject to the prior dividend and liquidation rights of any holders of its preferred stock that we may issue in the future.. 28. In addition, our right to participate in any distribution of assets of any of our subsidiaries, including Old Line Bank, upon the subsidiary's liquidation or otherwise, and thus our stockholders' ability to benefit indirectly from such distribution, will be subject to the prior claims of creditors of that subsidiary, except to the extent that any of our claims as a creditor of such subsidiary may be recognized. As a result, shares of our common stock are effectively subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and obligations of our subsidiaries.. Our ability to declare and pay dividends is limited by law, and we may be unable to pay future dividends. Old Line Bancshares are a separate and distinct legal entity from Old Line Bank, and it receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends from Old Line Bank. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock and interest and principal on debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that Old Line Bank may pay to Old Line Bancshares. In the event Old Line Bank is unable to pay dividends to Old Line Bancshares, Old Line Bancshares may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on our common stock. The inability to receive dividends from Old Line Bank could have a material adverse effect on Old Line Bancshares' business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may need to raise additional capital in the future. If we are unable to obtain such capital on favorable terms or at all, we may not be able to execute on our business plans and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to fund our growth and acquisition activities. Any sale of additional equity or debt securities may result in dilution to our stockholders. Public or private financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain additional financing, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate our growth and acquisition activities, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. Anti-takeover provisions could adversely affect our stockholders. Federal and Maryland banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, and provisions contained in our articles of incorporation and bylaws, could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders. For example, our articles of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to determine the designation, preferences, limitations and relative rights of unissued preferred stock, without any vote or action by stockholders. As a result, our board of directors could authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of our common stock or with other terms that could impede the completion of a merger, tender offer or other takeover attempt. In addition, certain provisions of Maryland law, including a provision that restricts certain business combinations between a Maryland corporation and certain interested stockholders, may delay, discourage or prevent an attempted acquisition or change in control of Old Line Bancshares that some or all of our stockholders might consider to be desirable. The combination of these provisions effectively inhibits a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult and expensive for holders of our common stock to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our board of directors or otherwise remove existing directors and management, even if current management is not performing adequately. As a result, efforts by our stockholders to change our direction or management may be unsuccessful."
