[1] "Item 1A.  RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, the following factors should be considered in evaluating Olin and our business.  All of our forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these factors.  Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we currently deem immaterial also may become important factors that affect us.. Sensitivity to Global Economic Conditions and Cyclicality - Our operating results could be negatively affected during economic downturns.. The business of most of our customers, particularly our vinyls, urethanes and pulp and paper customers are, to varying degrees, cyclical and have historically experienced periodic downturns.  These economic and industry downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, excess manufacturing capacity and, in some cases, lower average selling prices.  Therefore, any significant downturn in our customers' businesses or in global economic conditions could result in a reduction in demand for our products and could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.. Although a majority of our sales are within North America, a large part of our financial performance is dependent upon a healthy economy beyond North America because we have a significant amount of sales abroad and our customers sell their products abroad.  As a result, our business is and will continue to be affected by general economic conditions and other factors in Europe, Asia Pacific, particularly China, and Latin America, including fluctuations in interest rates, customer demand, labor and energy costs, currency changes and other factors beyond our control.  The demand for our customers' products, and therefore, our products, is directly affected by such fluctuations.  In addition, our customers could decide to move some or all of their production to lower cost, offshore locations, and this could reduce demand in North America for our products.  We cannot assure you that events having an adverse effect on the industries in which we operate will not occur or continue, such as a downturn in the European, Asia Pacific, particularly Chinese, Latin American, or world economies, increases in interest rates or unfavorable currency fluctuations.  Economic conditions in other regions of the world, predominantly Asia and Europe, can increase the amount of caustic soda produced and available for export to North America.  The increased caustic soda supply can put downward pressure on our caustic soda prices, negatively impacting our profitability.. Cyclical Pricing Pressure - Our profitability could be reduced by declines in average selling prices of our products, particularly declines in ECU netbacks for chlorine and caustic soda.. Our historical operating results reflect the cyclical and sometimes volatile nature of the chemical and ammunition industries.  We experience cycles of fluctuating supply and demand in each of our business segments, particularly in our Chlor Alkali Products and Vinyls segment, which result in changes in selling prices.  Periods of high demand, tight supply and increasing operating margins tend to result in increases in capacity and production until supply exceeds demand, generally followed by periods of oversupply and declining prices.  Another factor influencing demand and pricing for chlorine and caustic soda is the price of natural gas.  Higher natural gas prices increase our customers' and competitors' manufacturing costs, and depending on the ratio of crude oil to natural gas prices, could make them less competitive in world markets.. In the chlor alkali industry, price is the major supplier selection criterion.  We have little or no ability to influence prices in these large commodity markets.  Decreases in the average selling prices of our products could have a material adverse effect on our profitability.  While we strive to maintain or increase our profitability by reducing costs through improving production efficiency, emphasizing higher margin products and by controlling transportation, selling and administration expenses, we cannot assure you that these efforts will be sufficient to fully offset the effect of possible decreases in pricing on operating results.. Because of the cyclical nature of our businesses, we cannot assure you that pricing or profitability in the future will be comparable to any particular historical period, including the most recent period shown in our operating results.  We cannot assure you that the chlor alkali industry will not experience adverse trends in the future, or that our business, financial condition and results of operations will not be adversely affected by them.. Our Winchester and Epoxy segments are also subject to changes in operating results as a result of cyclical pricing pressures, but to a lesser extent than our Chlor Alkali Products and Vinyls segment.  Selling prices of ammunition and epoxy materials are affected by changes in raw material costs and availability and customer demand, and declines in average selling prices of products of our Winchester and Epoxy segments could adversely affect our profitability.. 12. Table of Contents. Suppliers - We rely on a limited number of third-party suppliers for specified feedstocks and services.. We obtain a significant portion of our raw materials from a few key suppliers.  If any of these suppliers are unable to meet their obligations under present or any future supply agreements, we may be forced to pay higher prices to obtain the necessary raw materials.  Any interruption of supply or any price increase of raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  We have entered into agreements with DowDuPont to provide specified feedstocks and services for a number of our facilities.  These facilities are dependent upon DowDuPont's infrastructure for services such as wastewater and ground water treatment.  Any failure of DowDuPont to perform its obligations under those agreements could adversely affect the operation of the affected facilities and our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Many of the agreements relating to these feedstocks and services have initial terms ranging from several years to 20 years.  Most of these agreements are automatically renewable, but may be terminated by us or DowDuPont after specified notice periods.  If we are required to obtain an alternate source for these feedstocks or services, we may not be able to obtain pricing on as favorable terms.  Additionally, we may be forced to pay additional transportation costs or to invest in capital projects for pipelines or alternate facilities to accommodate railcar or other delivery methods or to replace other services.. A vendor may choose, subject to existing contracts, to modify its relationship due to general economic concerns or concerns relating to the vendor or us, at any time.  Any significant change in the terms that we have with our key suppliers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as could significant additional requirements from suppliers that we provide them additional security in the form of prepayments or posting letters of credit.. Raw Materials - Availability of purchased feedstocks and energy, and the volatility of these costs, impact our operating costs and add variability to earnings.. Purchased feedstock and energy costs account for a substantial portion of our total production costs and operating expenses.  We purchase certain raw materials as feedstocks.. Feedstock and energy costs generally follow price trends in crude oil and natural gas, which are sometimes volatile.  Ultimately, the ability to pass on underlying cost increases is dependent on market conditions.  Conversely, when feedstock and energy costs decline, selling prices generally decline as well.  As a result, volatility in these costs could impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If the availability of any of our principal feedstocks is limited or we are unable to obtain natural gas or energy from any of our energy sources, we may be unable to produce some of our products in the quantities demanded by our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on plant utilization and our sales of products requiring such raw materials.  We have supply contracts with various third parties for certain raw materials, including ethylene, electricity, propylene and benzene.  These contracts have initial terms ranging from several years to 20 years.  As these contracts expire, we may be unable to renew these contracts or obtain new long-term supply agreements on terms comparable or as favorable to us, depending on market conditions, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, many of our long-term contracts contain provisions that allow their suppliers to limit the amount of raw materials shipped to us below the contracted amount in force majeure circumstances.  If we are required to obtain alternate sources for raw materials because our suppliers are unwilling or unable to perform under raw material supply agreements or if a supplier terminates its agreements with us, we may not be able to obtain these raw materials from alternative suppliers or obtain new long-term supply agreements on terms comparable or favorable to us.. Cost Control - Our profitability could be reduced if we experience increasing raw material, utility, transportation or logistics costs, or if we fail to achieve targeted cost reductions.. Our operating results and profitability are dependent upon our continued ability to control, and in some cases reduce, our costs.  If we are unable to do so, or if costs outside of our control, particularly our costs of raw materials, utilities, transportation and similar costs, increase beyond anticipated levels, our profitability will decline.. For example, our chlor alkali product transportation costs, particularly railroad shipment costs, are a portion of our cost of goods sold, and have been increasing over the past several years.  If transportation costs continue to increase, and we are unable to control those costs or pass the increased costs on to customers, our profitability in our Chlor Alkali Products and Vinyls and Epoxy segments would be negatively affected.  Similarly, costs of commodity metals and other materials used in our Winchester business, such as copper and lead, can vary.  If we experience significant increases in these costs and are unable to raise our prices to offset the higher costs, the profitability in our Winchester business would be negatively affected.. 13. Table of Contents. Third-Party Transportation - We rely heavily on third-party transportation, which subjects us to risks and costs that we cannot control, and which risks and costs may have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.. We rely heavily on railroad, truck, marine vessel, barge and other shipping companies to transport finished products to customers and to transport raw materials to the manufacturing facilities used by each of our businesses.  These transport operations are subject to various hazards and risks, including extreme weather conditions, work stoppages and operating hazards, as well as domestic and international transportation and maritime regulations.  In addition, the methods of transportation we utilize, including shipping chlorine and other chemicals by railroad and by barge, may be subject to additional, more stringent and more costly regulations in the future.  If we are delayed or unable to ship finished products or unable to obtain raw materials as a result of any such new regulations or public policy changes related to transportation safety, or these transportation companies' failure to operate properly, or if there were significant changes in the cost of these services due to new additional regulations, or otherwise, we may not be able to arrange efficient alternatives and timely means to obtain raw materials or ship goods, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations.  If any third-party railroad which we utilize to transport chlorine and other chemicals ceases to transport toxic-by-inhalation hazardous (TIH) materials, or if there are significant changes in the cost of shipping TIH materials by rail or otherwise, we may not be able to arrange efficient alternatives and timely means to deliver our products or at all, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations.. Security and Chemicals Transportation - New regulations on the transportation of hazardous chemicals and/or the security of chemical manufacturing facilities and public policy changes related to transportation safety could result in significantly higher operating costs.. The transportation of our products and feedstocks, including transportation by pipeline, and the security of our chemical manufacturing facilities are subject to extensive regulation.  Government authorities at the local, state and federal levels could implement new or stricter regulations that would impact the security of chemical plant locations and the transportation of hazardous chemicals.  Our Chlor Alkali Products and Vinyls segment could be adversely impacted by the cost of complying with any new regulations.  Our business also could be adversely affected if an incident were to occur at one of our facilities or while transporting products.  The extent of the impact would depend on the requirements of future regulations and the nature of an incident, which are unknown at this time.. Production Hazards - Our facilities are subject to operating hazards, which may disrupt our business.. We are dependent upon the continued safe operation of our production facilities.  Our production facilities are subject to hazards associated with the manufacture, handling, storage and transportation of chemical materials and products and ammunition, including leaks and ruptures, explosions, fires, inclement weather and natural disasters, unexpected utility disruptions or outages, unscheduled downtime, transportation interruptions, transportation accidents involving our chemical products, chemical spills and other discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases and environmental hazards.  From time to time in the past, we have had incidents that have temporarily shut down or otherwise disrupted our manufacturing, causing production delays and resulting in liability for workplace injuries and fatalities.  Some of our products involve the manufacture and/or handling of a variety of explosive and flammable materials.  Use of these products by our customers could also result in liability if an explosion, fire, spill or other accident were to occur.  We cannot assure you that we will not experience these types of incidents in the future or that these incidents will not result in production delays or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  Major hurricanes have caused significant disruption in our operations on the U.S. Gulf Coast, logistics across the region and the supply of certain raw materials, which have had an adverse impact on volume and cost for some of our products.  Due to the substantial presence we have on the U.S. Gulf Coast, similar severe weather conditions or other natural phenomena in the future could negatively affect our results of operations, for which we may not be fully insured.. 14. Table of Contents. Integration of Information Technology Systems - Operation on multiple Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) information systems, and the conversion from multiple systems to a single system, may negatively impact our operations.. We are highly dependent on our information systems infrastructure in order to process orders, track inventory, ship products in a timely manner, prepare invoices to our customers, maintain regulatory compliance and otherwise carry on our business in the ordinary course.  We currently operate on an ERP information system and the Acquired Business operates on a separate ERP system.  Since we are required to process and reconcile our information from multiple systems, the chance of errors has increased.  Inconsistencies in the information from multiple ERP systems could adversely impact our ability to manage our business efficiently and may result in heightened risk to our ability to maintain our books and records and comply with regulatory requirements.  In 2017, we began a multi-year implementation of new enterprise resource planning, manufacturing, and engineering systems.  The project includes the required information technology infrastructure (collectively, the Information Technology Project).  The project is planned to standardize business processes across the chemicals businesses with the objective of maximizing cost effectiveness, efficiency and control across our global operations.  The project is anticipated to be completed during 2020.  The transition to a different ERP system involves numerous risks, including:. • diversion of management's attention away from normal daily business operations;. • loss of, or delays in accessing, data;. • increased demand on our operations support personnel;. • increased costs;. • initial dependence on unfamiliar systems while training personnel to use new systems; and. • increased operating expenses resulting from training, conversion and transition support activities.. Any of the foregoing could result in a material increase in information technology compliance or other related costs, and could materially and negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Effects of Regulation - Changes in or failure to comply with legislation or government regulations or policies could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.. Legislation that may be passed by Congress or other legislative bodies or new regulations that may be issued by federal and other administrative agencies, including import and export duties and quotas, anti-dumping regulations and related tariffs, could significantly affect the sales, costs and profitability of our business.  The chemical and ammunition industries are subject to legislative and regulatory actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations.  Existing and future government regulations and laws may reduce the demand for our products, including certain chlorinated organic products, such as dry cleaning solvents.  Any decrease in the demand for chlorinated organic products could result in lower unit sales and lower selling prices for such chlorinated organic products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Our international sales and operations subject us to a wide variety of laws and regulations, including anti-corruption laws and regulations such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Information Security - A failure of our information technology systems, or an interruption in their operation due to internal or external factors including cyber-attacks, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our operations are dependent on our ability to protect our information systems, computer equipment and information databases from systems failures.  We rely on our information technology systems generally to manage the day-to-day operation of our business, operate elements of our manufacturing facilities, manage relationships with our customers, fulfill customer orders and maintain our financial and accounting records.  Failure of our information technology systems could be caused by internal or external events, such as incursions by intruders or hackers, computer viruses, cyber-attacks, failures in hardware or software, or power or telecommunication fluctuations or failures.  The failure of our information technology systems to perform as anticipated for any reason or any significant breach of security could disrupt our business and result in numerous adverse consequences, including reduced effectiveness and efficiency of operations, increased costs or loss of important information, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  We have technology and information security processes and disaster recovery plans in place to mitigate our risk to these vulnerabilities.  However, these measures may not be adequate to ensure that our operations will not be disrupted, should such an event occur.. 15. Table of Contents. Imbalance in Demand for Our Chlor Alkali Products - A loss of a substantial customer for our chlorine or caustic soda could cause an imbalance in customer demand for these products, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Chlorine and caustic soda are produced simultaneously and in a fixed ratio of 1.0 ton of chlorine to 1.1 tons of caustic soda.  The loss of a substantial chlorine or caustic soda customer could cause an imbalance in customer demand for our chlorine and caustic soda products.  An imbalance in customer demand may require Olin to reduce production of both chlorine and caustic soda or take other steps to correct the imbalance.  Since Olin cannot store large quantities of chlorine, we may not be able to respond to an imbalance in customer demand for these products as quickly or efficiently as some of our competitors.  If a substantial imbalance occurred, we would need to reduce prices or take other actions that could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Credit Facility - Weak industry conditions could affect our ability to comply with the financial maintenance covenants in our senior credit facility.. Our senior credit facility includes certain financial maintenance covenants requiring us to not exceed a maximum leverage ratio and to maintain a minimum coverage ratio.. Depending on the magnitude and duration of chlor alkali cyclical downturns, including deterioration in prices and volumes, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be in compliance with these ratios.  If we failed to comply with either of these covenants in a future period and were not able to obtain waivers from the lenders, we would need to refinance our current senior credit facilities.  However, there can be no assurance that such refinancing would be available to us on terms that would be acceptable to us or at all.. Pension Plans - The impact of declines in global equity and fixed income markets on asset values and any declines in interest rates and/or improvements in mortality assumptions used to value the liabilities in our pension plans may result in higher pension costs and the need to fund the pension plans in future years in material amounts.. We sponsor domestic and foreign defined benefit pension plans for eligible employees and retirees.  Substantially all domestic defined benefit pension plan participants are no longer accruing benefits.  However, a portion of our bargaining hourly employees continue to participate in our domestic qualified defined benefit pension plans under a flat-benefit formula.  Our funding policy for the qualified defined benefit pension plans is consistent with the requirements of federal laws and regulations.  Our foreign subsidiaries maintain pension and other benefit plans, which are consistent with local statutory practices.  The determinations of pension expense and pension funding are based on a variety of rules and regulations.  Changes in these rules and regulations could impact the calculation of pension plan liabilities and the valuation of pension plan assets.  They may also result in higher pension costs, additional financial statement disclosure, and the need to fund the pension plan.. At December 31, 2017, the projected benefit obligation of $2,877.5 million exceeded the market value of assets in our qualified defined benefit pension plans by $630.6 million, as calculated under Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 715 \"Compensation - Retirement Benefits\" (ASC 715).  During 2016, we made a discretionary cash contribution to our domestic qualified defined benefit pension plan of $6.0 million.  Based on our plan assumptions and estimates, we will not be required to make any cash contributions to the domestic qualified defined benefit pension plan at least through 2018.. We also have several international qualified defined benefit pension plans to which we made cash contributions of $1.7 million in 2017, $1.3 million in 2016 and $0.9 million in 2015, and we anticipate less than $5 million of cash contributions to international qualified defined benefit pension plans in 2018.. The impact of declines in global equity and fixed income markets on asset values may result in higher pension costs and may increase and accelerate the need to fund the pension plans in future years.  For example, holding all other assumptions constant, a 100-basis point decrease or increase in the assumed long-term rate of return on plan assets for our domestic qualified defined benefit pension plan would have decreased or increased, respectively, the 2017 defined benefit pension plan income by approximately $19.8 million.  Holding all other assumptions constant for our domestic qualified defined benefit pension plan, a 50-basis point decrease in the discount rate used to calculate pension income for 2017 and the projected benefit obligation as of December 31, 2017 would have decreased pension income by $0.4 million and increased the projected benefit obligation by $162.0 million.  A 50-basis point increase in the discount rate used to calculate pension income for 2017 and the projected benefit obligation as of December 31, 2017 for our domestic qualified defined benefit pension plan would have increased pension income by $0.6 million and decreased the projected benefit obligation by $146.0 million.. 16. Table of Contents. Foreign Exchange Rates - Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange could affect our consolidated financial results.. We earn revenues, pay expenses, own assets and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar (USD).  Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in USD, we must translate revenues and expenses into USD at the average exchange rate during each reporting period, as well as assets and liabilities into USD at exchange rates in effect at the end of each reporting period.  Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the USD against other major currencies will affect our net revenues, operating income and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies.  Because of the geographic diversity of our operations, weaknesses in various currencies might occur in one or many of such currencies over time.  From time to time, we may use derivative financial instruments to further reduce our net exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations.  However, we cannot assure you that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the strengthening of the USD against major currencies, would not materially adversely affect our financial results.. Litigation and Claims - We are subject to litigation and other claims, which could cause us to incur significant expenses.. We are a defendant in a number of pending legal proceedings relating to our present and former operations.  These include product liability claims relating to ammunition and firearms and proceedings alleging injurious exposure of plaintiffs to various chemicals and other substances (including proceedings based on alleged exposures to asbestos).  Frequently, the proceedings alleging injurious exposure involve claims made by numerous plaintiffs against many defendants.  Because of the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we are unable to predict the outcome of these proceedings and therefore cannot determine whether the financial impact, if any, will be material to our financial position, cash flows or results of operations.. Environmental Costs - We have ongoing environmental costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.. Our operations and assets are subject to extensive environmental, health and safety regulations, including laws and regulations related to air emissions, water discharges, waste disposal and remediation of contaminated sites.  The nature of our operations and products, including the raw materials we handle, exposes us to the risk of liabilities, obligations or claims under these laws and regulations due to the production, storage, use, transportation and sale of materials that can cause contamination or personal injury, including, in the case of chemicals, potential releases into the environment.  Environmental laws may have a significant effect on the costs of use, transportation and storage of raw materials and finished products, as well as the costs of the storage and disposal of wastes.  In addition, we are party to various governmental and private environmental actions associated with past manufacturing facilities and former waste disposal sites.  We have incurred, and expect to incur, significant costs and capital expenditures in complying with environmental laws and regulations.. The ultimate costs and timing of environmental liabilities are difficult to predict.  Liabilities under environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively and on a joint and several basis.  One liable party could be held responsible for all costs at a site, regardless of fault, percentage of contribution to the site or the legality of the original disposal. We could incur significant costs, including clean-up costs, natural resource damages, civil or criminal fines and sanctions and third-party lawsuits claiming, for example, personal injury and/or property damage, as a result of past or future violations of, or liabilities under, environmental or other laws.. In addition, future events, such as changes to or more rigorous enforcement of environmental laws, could require us to make additional expenditures, modify or curtail our operations and/or install pollution control equipment.  It is possible that regulatory agencies may enact new or more stringent clean-up standards for chemicals of concern, including chlorinated organic products that we manufacture.  This could lead to expenditures for environmental remediation in the future that are additional to existing estimates.. Accordingly, it is possible that some of the matters in which we are involved or may become involved may be resolved unfavorably to us, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, cash flows or results of operations.  See \"Environmental Matters\" contained in Item 7 - \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\". 17. Table of Contents. Indebtedness - Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $3,612.0 million of indebtedness outstanding.  Outstanding indebtedness does not include amounts that could be borrowed under our $600.0 million senior revolving credit facility, under which $574.9 million was available for borrowing as of December 31, 2017 because we had outstanding borrowings of $20.0 million and issued $5.1 million of letters of credit.  As of December 31, 2017, our indebtedness represented 56.7% of our total capitalization.  On January 19, 2018, Olin issued $550.0 million aggregate principal amount of 5.00% senior notes due February 1, 2030 (2030 Notes), which were registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.  Proceeds from the 2030 Notes were used to redeem $550.0 million of debt under the $1,375.0 million term loan facility (Term Loan Facility).  This prepayment of the Term Loan Facility eliminates the required quarterly installments under the Term Loan Facility.  At December 31, 2017, $0.7 million of our indebtedness was due within one year.  Despite our level of indebtedness, we expect to continue to have the ability to borrow additional debt.. Our indebtedness could have important consequences, including but not limited to:. • limiting our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures, and other general corporate purposes;. • limiting our ability to accommodate growth by reducing funds otherwise available for other corporate purposes and to compete, which in turn could prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness;. • limiting our operational flexibility due to the covenants contained in our debt agreements;. • to the extent that our debt is subject to floating interest rates, increasing our vulnerability to fluctuations in market interest rates;. • limiting our ability to pay cash dividends;. • limiting our flexibility for, or reacting to, changes in our business or industry or economic conditions, thereby limiting our ability to compete with companies that are not as highly leveraged; and. • increasing our vulnerability to economic downturns.. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled payments on our debt will depend on a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside our control.  There can be no assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make these payments.  If we are unable to meet our expenses and debt obligations, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness before maturity, sell assets or issue additional equity.  We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, sell assets or issue additional equity on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could cause us to default on our obligations and impair our liquidity.  Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our debt obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on our ability to satisfy our debt obligations.. Integration - Our integration of the Acquired Business may not be successful in fully realizing the anticipated benefits from the Acquisition.. As a result of the addition of the Acquired Business, we have significantly more sales, assets and employees than we did prior to the Closing Date.  The integration process requires us to expend capital and significantly expand the scope of our operations and financial systems.. It may not be possible to fully realize the benefits of the increased sales volume and other benefits, including the expected synergies that are expected to result from the addition of the Acquired Business, or realize these benefits within the time frame that is expected.  The costs to realize the anticipated synergies, including integration fees and capital spending, may be greater than anticipated.  For example, the elimination of duplicative costs may not be fully possible or may take longer than anticipated, or the benefits from the Acquisition may be offset by costs incurred or delays in integrating the companies.  In addition, the quantification of synergies expected to result from the Acquisition is based on significant estimates and assumptions that are subjective in nature and inherently uncertain.  The amount of synergies actually realized and the time periods in which such synergies are realized, could differ materially from expectations.. If we are unable to successfully fully realize the anticipated synergies and other benefits of the Acquisition, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 18. Table of Contents. Ability to Attract and Retain Qualified Employees - We must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and the failure to do so may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We feel our success depends on hiring, retaining and motivating key employees, including executive officers.  We may have difficulty locating and hiring qualified personnel.  In addition, we may have difficulty retaining such personnel once hired, and key people may leave and compete against us.  The loss of key personnel or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel could disrupt or materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.  In addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for employees or higher employee turnover, which may result in the loss of significant customer business or increased costs.. Labor Matters - We cannot assure you that we can conclude future labor contracts or any other labor agreements without work stoppages.. Various labor unions represent a significant number of our hourly paid employees for collective bargaining purposes.  The following labor contracts are scheduled to expire in 2018 or early 2019:. Location   Number of Employees   Expiration Date Lemont (Chlor Alkali Products and Vinyls)   20   March 2018 Becancour (Chlor Alkali Products and Vinyls)   101   April 2018 McIntosh (Chlor Alkali Products and Vinyls)   197   April 2019. While we believe our relations with our employees and their various representatives are generally satisfactory, we cannot assure that we can conclude any labor agreements without work stoppages and cannot assure that any work stoppages will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Asset Impairment - If our goodwill, other intangible assets or property plant and equipment become impaired in the future, we may be required to record non-cash charges to earnings, which could be significant.. The process of impairment testing for our goodwill involves a number of judgments and estimates made by management including future cash flows, discount rates, profitability assumptions and terminal growth rates with regards to our reporting units.  Our internally generated long-range plan includes cyclical assumptions regarding pricing and operating forecasts for the chlor alkali industry.  If the judgments and estimates used in our analysis are not realized or are affected by external factors, then actual results may not be consistent with these judgments and estimates, and we may be required to record a goodwill impairment charge in the future, which could be significant and have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. We review long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and identifiable amortizing intangible assets, for impairment whenever changes in circumstances or events may indicate that the carrying amounts are not recoverable.  If the fair value is less than the carrying amount of the asset, an impairment is recognized for the difference.  Factors which may cause an impairment of long-lived assets include significant changes in the manner of use of these assets, negative industry or market trends, a significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, extended period of idleness or a likely sale or disposal of the asset before the end of its estimated useful life.  If our property, plant and equipment and identifiable amortizing intangible assets are determined to be impaired in the future, we may be required to record non-cash charges to earnings during the period in which the impairment is determined, which could be significant and have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. Credit and Capital Market Conditions - Adverse conditions in the credit and capital markets may limit or prevent our ability to borrow or raise capital.. While we believe we have facilities in place that should allow us to borrow funds as needed to meet our ordinary course business activities, adverse conditions in the credit and financial markets could prevent us from obtaining financing, if the need arises.  Our ability to invest in our businesses and refinance or repay maturing debt obligations could require access to the credit and capital markets and sufficient bank credit lines to support cash requirements.  If we are unable to access the credit and capital markets on commercially reasonable terms, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations.. 19. Table of Contents. The historical financial information of the Acquired Business may not be representative of its results or financial condition if it had been operated independently of DowDuPont and, as a result, may not be a reliable indicator of its future results.. The financial information of the Acquired Business prior to the Closing Date and included within the unaudited pro forma financial information within this document has been derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of DowDuPont and reflects all direct costs as well as assumptions and allocations made by DowDuPont management.  The financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the Acquired Business presented may be different from those that would have resulted had the Acquired Business been operated independently of DowDuPont during the applicable periods or at the applicable dates.. The unaudited pro forma financial information of Olin and the Acquired Business is not intended to reflect what actual results of operations and financial condition would have been had Olin and the Acquired Business been a combined company for the periods presented, and therefore these results may not be indicative of Olin's future operating performance.. The unaudited pro forma financial information presented in this document is for illustrative purposes only and is not intended to, and does not purport to, represent what our actual results or financial condition would have been if the Acquisition had occurred on the relevant date.  The unaudited pro forma financial information has been prepared using the acquisition method of accounting.  Under the acquisition method of accounting, the purchase price is allocated to the underlying tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their respective fair values with any excess purchase price allocated to goodwill.. The unaudited pro forma financial information does not reflect the costs of any integration activities or transaction-related costs or incremental capital spending that Olin management believes are necessary to realize the anticipated synergies from the Acquisition.  Accordingly, the unaudited pro forma financial information included in this document does not reflect what our results of operations or operating condition would have been had Olin and the Acquired Business been a consolidated entity during all periods presented, or what our results of operations and financial condition will be in the future."
