[1] "ITEM 1A.     RISK FACTORS. The risks and uncertainties described below may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results. In addition, we may be adversely affected by risks that we currently deem immaterial or by other risks that are not currently known to us. You should carefully consider these risks before making an investment decision. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing the risks described below, you should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Risks Related to Our Products, Programs and Operations. Our ability to achieve profitability is dependent on the commercial success of OMIDRIA. To the extent OMIDRIA is not successful, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected and the price of our common stock may decline.. OMIDRIA is our only product that has been approved by the FDA for commercial sale in the U.S. For the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2017, we recorded net sales of OMIDRIA of $13.8 million and $64.8 million, respectively. We have not generated revenue from sales of OMIDRIA to date that are sufficient to fund fully our operations and cannot provide assurance that we will generate sufficient revenue from OMIDRIA in the future to fund fully our operations. We will need to generate substantially more product revenue from OMIDRIA to achieve and sustain profitability. Our ability to generate significant revenue from OMIDRIA product sales depends on our ability to achieve increased market acceptance of, and to otherwise market and sell effectively, OMIDRIA, which may not occur for a number of reasons, including:. • the extent of coverage and reimbursement for OMIDRIA when used in Medicare patients following the expiration of pass-through reimbursement on January 1, 2018;. • pricing, coverage and reimbursement policies of government and private payers such as Medicare, Medicaid, the Department of Veterans Affairs, or VA, group purchasing organizations, insurance companies, health maintenance organizations and other plan administrators;. • a lack of acceptance by physicians, patients and other members of the healthcare community;. 27. • the availability, relative price and efficacy of the product as compared to alternative treatment options or branded, compounded or generic competing products;. • an unknown safety risk;. • the failure to enter into and maintain acceptable partnering arrangements for marketing and distribution of OMIDRIA outside of the U.S.;. • changed or increased regulatory restrictions in the U.S., EU and other foreign territories; and. • a lack of adequate financial or other resources.. Pass-through status for OMIDRIA under Medicare Part B terminated as scheduled effective January 1, 2018. If legislative and/or administrative means to extend separate payment for OMIDRIA continue to be delayed, or are not successful, we would need to pursue an alternative sales strategy, and our revenues, financial condition and prospects for profitability could be adversely and significantly affected.. Effective January 1, 2018, OMIDRIA no longer has separate payment under Medicare Part B when used in the hospital outpatient department or ambulatory surgery centers and, consequently, payment is included as part of the packaged items and services included in the payment for the procedure. Legislative and administrative means are being pursued to obtain a continuation of separate or similar reimbursement for OMIDRIA on and after January 1, 2018 and/or to extend the pass-through period from three to five years. An extension or separate reimbursement for OMIDRIA requires action from legislative and/or administrative authorities and, as a consequence, we can provide no assurance that any such action will be taken or, if taken, when such action will be effective, nor can we predict the actual reimbursement rate or the duration of the extension or separate reimbursement period.. Due to the scheduled expiration of pass-through reimbursement on January 1, 2018, we saw a significant reduction in ASC and hospital demand for OMIDRIA beginning in December 2017. We expect this reduction in OMIDRIA demand to continue while the CMS reimbursement status of OMIDRIA remains uncertain. Based on first quarter 2018 data to date, we believe that a substantial majority of facilities that were using OMIDRIA are awaiting resolution regarding reimbursement by CMS, or our decision to implement an alternative sales strategy, and, therefore, have largely suspended use of the product or are using the product on a selective basis only. As a result, sales to our wholesalers have decreased substantially from their peak levels in November 2017 as the wholesalers adjust on-hand inventory in light of the reduced ASC and hospital demand. Even if OMIDRIA receives separate or similar reimbursement in the future, we cannot predict how quickly and to what extent sales will resume, if at all. It is possible that some customers may defer OMIDRIA purchases until Medicare Part B reimbursement is obtained or until an alternative sales strategy is implemented. Further, some former customers could decide not to resume using OMIDRIA, which could inhibit or limit our potential sales growth.. In the event that neither the legislative or the administrative approaches are ultimately successful, we expect to pursue an alternative sales strategy. After implementing this strategy, we cannot predict how quickly, or if, our customers would increase their OMIDRIA utilization and the net revenues we receive for OMIDRIA could be reduced, potentially by a significant amount. A reduction in net OMIDRIA revenues for this or any other reason may also impair our ability to satisfy annual revenue covenants in the CRG Loan Agreement, which would constitute an event of default if the corresponding market capitalization threshold was not satisfied. Furthermore, we cannot guarantee that a substantial reduction in OMIDRIA revenues would not trigger \"material adverse change\" under the CRG Loan Agreement, which would also constitute an event of default.. Any of these risks, if realized, would adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and attain profitability and there would be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects and the trading price of our stock could decline.. If OMIDRIA or any other product that we develop and commercialize does not receive adequate coverage or reimbursement from governments or private payers, or if we do not establish and maintain market-acceptable pricing for OMIDRIA or those potential other commercialized products, our prospects for revenue and profitability would suffer.. Our revenues and profitability will depend heavily on the pricing, availability and duration of adequate coverage or reimbursement for the use of products that we or our third-party business partners commercialize, including OMIDRIA, from government, private and other third-party payers, both in the U.S. and in other countries. Any product that we bring to market may not be considered cost-effective and/or the amount reimbursed for any product may be insufficient to allow us to sell the product profitably. Obtaining coverage and reimbursement for any product from each government or third-party payer can be a time-consuming and costly process that may require expansion of staff and/or increased use of third parties and could require us to provide additional supporting scientific, clinical and cost-effectiveness data for the use of our approved products to each payer. We can provide no assurances at this time regarding the cost-effectiveness of OMIDRIA, OMS103 or any of our product. 28. candidates. Further, we can provide no assurance that the amounts, if any, reimbursed to surgical facilities for utilization of any of our surgery-related products, including OMIDRIA, OMS103 or any of our product candidates, or to surgeons for the administration and delivery of these products or product candidates will be considered adequate to justify the use of these products or product candidates. In addition, obtaining acceptable coverage and reimbursement from one payer does not guarantee that we will obtain similar acceptable coverage or reimbursement from another payer.. There may be significant delays in obtaining coverage or reimbursement for newly approved products, and we may not be able to provide data sufficient to be granted coverage or reimbursement. Even when a payer determines that a product is eligible for reimbursement, coverage may be limited to the uses of a product that are either approved by the FDA (or, in other countries, the relevant country's regulatory agency) and/or appear in a recognized drug compendium, and other conditions may apply. Moreover, eligibility for coverage does not mean that any product will be reimbursed at a rate that allows us to make a profit in all cases or at a rate that covers our costs, including research, development, manufacturing, sales and distribution. Increasingly, government and private third-party payers that reimburse for healthcare services and products are requiring that companies provide them with predetermined discounts from list prices and challenging the prices charged for medical products, which could adversely impact the pricing of our products. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare or other government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payers. Pricing may also be adversely affected by changes in the terms, scope and/or complexity of government pricing requirements. Even if we achieve coverage or reimbursement for a product, the initial rate or method at which the product will be reimbursed could become unfavorable to us at the time reimbursement is initiated or in the future or may be of a limited duration.. In non-U.S. jurisdictions, we must obtain separate reimbursement approvals and comply with related foreign legal and regulatory requirements. In some countries, including those in the EU, our products may be subject to government price controls. Pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take a considerable amount of time and expenditure of resources after the receipt of marketing approval for a product. We provide no assurances that the price of any product in one or more of these countries or regions will allow us to make a profit or cover our costs, including research, development, manufacturing, sales and distribution, and as a result we may decide to delay, potentially indefinitely, initiating sales in the particular country or region.. If the reimbursement or pricing that we are able to obtain and maintain for any product that we develop and commercialize, including OMIDRIA, is inadequate, is significantly delayed or is subject to overly restrictive conditions, our ability to generate revenue, attain profitability and/or commercialize our product candidates may be impaired and there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects and the trading price of our stock could decline.. Our operating results are unpredictable and may fluctuate.. Our operating results are difficult to predict and will likely fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year. We believe that our quarterly and annual results of operations may be affected by a variety of factors, including:. • the level and timing of commercial sales of OMIDRIA, as well as our product candidates if and when approved or commercialized;. • the extent of coverage and reimbursement for OMIDRIA following the expiration of pass-through reimbursement on January 1, 2018;. • the amount of OMIDRIA chargebacks, rebates and product returns;. • the extent of any payments received from collaboration arrangements and development funding as well as the achievement of development and clinical milestones under collaboration and license agreements that we may enter into from time to time and that may vary significantly from quarter to quarter; and. • the timing, cost and level of investment in our research and development activities as well as expenditures we will or may incur to acquire or develop additional technologies, products and product candidates.. In addition, the number of procedures in which OMIDRIA or any of our product candidates, if commercialized, would be used may be significantly less than the total number of such procedures performed or total possible market size. These and other factors, including our limited history of product sales, may make it difficult for us to forecast and provide accurate guidance (including updates to prior guidance) related to our expected financial performance. If our operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the trading price of our stock could decline.. We have incurred cumulative operating losses since inception. If we are unable to raise additional capital when needed, our commercial operations may be limited and we may be unable to complete the development and commercialization of our product candidates or to continue our other preclinical development programs.. 29. Our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash since our incorporation and, as of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $523.4 million. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to:. • initiate and conduct clinical trials for our programs and product candidates;. • continue OMIDRIA sales and marketing;. • continue research and development in our programs;. • make principal, interest and fee payments under the CRG Loan Agreement; and. • commercialize and launch product candidates for which we may receive regulatory approval.. We expect to continue to incur additional losses until such time as we generate significant revenue from the sale of OMIDRIA, other commercial products and/or significant partnering revenues. We are unable to predict the extent of any future losses and cannot provide assurance that we will generate sufficient revenue from OMIDRIA or other commercial products in the future to fund fully our operations. To date we have not generated revenue from sales of OMIDRIA that is sufficient to fund fully our operations. If we are unable to generate sufficient revenue from the sale of OMIDRIA, other commercialized products and/or partnering arrangements, we may never become and remain profitable and will be required to raise additional capital to continue to fund our operations. We cannot be certain that additional capital will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, when required. Adverse developments to our financial condition or business, as well as disruptions in the global equity and credit markets, may limit our ability to access capital. If we do not raise additional capital when needed through one or more funding avenues, such as corporate partnering or debt or equity financings, we may have to significantly delay, scale back or discontinue the development or commercialization of one or more of our product candidates or one or more of our preclinical programs or other research and development initiatives. In addition, we may be required to seek collaborators for one or more of our current or future products at an earlier stage than otherwise would be desirable or on terms that are less favorable than otherwise might be available or to relinquish or license on unfavorable terms our rights to technologies or products that we otherwise would seek to develop or commercialize ourselves. We also may have insufficient funds or otherwise be unable to advance our preclinical programs, such as potential new drug targets developed from our GPCR program, to a point where they can generate revenue through partnerships, collaborations or other arrangements. Any of these actions could limit the amount of revenue we are able to generate and harm our business and prospects.. Management, as well as our independent registered public accounting firm, have concluded that a substantial doubt is deemed to exist concerning our ability to continue as a going concern.. Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, 2014-15, requires management to assess our ability to continue as a going concern for one year after the date the financial statements are issued. As further discussed in Part II, Item 8, \"Note 1--Organization and Basis of Presentation--Going Concern\" to our Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, substantial doubt is deemed to exist about the company's ability to continue as a going concern through March 1, 2019. Our financial statements do not include any adjustment relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts or the amounts and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern. Our ability to continue as a going concern will require us to generate positive cash flow from operations, obtain additional financing, enter into strategic alliances and/or sell assets. The reaction of investors to the inclusion of a going concern statement in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our current lack of cash resources and our potential inability to continue as a going concern may materially adversely affect our share price and our ability to raise new capital, enter into strategic alliances and/or make our scheduled debt payments on a timely basis or at all. If we become unable to continue as a going concern, we may have to liquidate our assets and the values we receive for our assets in liquidation or dissolution could be significantly lower than the values reflected in our financial statements.. We are subject to extensive government regulation and the failure to comply with these regulations may have a material adverse effect on our operations and business.. Both before and after approval of any product, we and our suppliers, contract manufacturers and clinical investigators are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the U.S. and other countries, covering, among other things, testing, manufacturing, quality control, clinical trials, post-marketing studies, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution, import and export, governmental pricing, price reporting and rebate requirements. Failure to comply with applicable requirements could result in one or more of the following actions: warning letters; unanticipated expenditures; delays in approval or refusal to approve a product candidate; product recall or seizure; interruption of manufacturing or clinical trials; operating or marketing restrictions; injunctions; criminal prosecution and civil or criminal penalties including fines and other monetary penalties; adverse publicity; and disruptions to our business. Further, government investigations into potential violations of these laws would require us to expend considerable resources and face adverse publicity and the potential disruption of our business even if we are ultimately found not to have committed a violation.. 30. Obtaining FDA approval of our product candidates requires substantial time, effort and financial resources and may be subject to both expected and unforeseen delays, and there can be no assurance that any approval will be granted on any of our product candidates on a timely basis, if at all. Even if we discuss with, and obtain feedback from, the FDA regarding our proposed clinical trials and nonclinical studies before initiating those trials or studies, the FDA may decide that the design of our clinical trials as actually run or our resulting data are insufficient for approval of our product candidates and require additional preclinical, clinical or other studies or additional work related to chemistry, manufacturing and controls. In addition, we, the FDA or an independent institutional review board or ethics committee may suspend or terminate human clinical trials at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the patients are or would be exposed to an unacceptable health risk or because of the way in which the investigators on which we rely carry out the trials. If we are required to conduct additional trials or to conduct other testing of our product candidates beyond that which we currently contemplate for regulatory approval, if we are unable to complete successfully our clinical trials or other testing, or if the results of these and other trials or tests fail to demonstrate efficacy or raise safety concerns, we may face substantial additional expenses, be delayed in obtaining marketing approval for our product candidates or may never obtain marketing approval.. We are also required to comply with extensive governmental regulatory requirements after a product has received marketing authorization. Governing regulatory authorities may require post-marketing studies that may negatively impact the commercial viability of a product. Once on the market, a product may become associated with previously undetected adverse effects and/or may develop manufacturing difficulties. We are required to comply with other post-marketing requirements including GMPs, advertising and promotion restrictions, reporting and recordkeeping obligations and other requirements. As a result of any of these or other problems, a product's regulatory approval could be withdrawn, which could harm our business and operating results. In addition, we must establish and maintain an effective healthcare compliance program in order to comply with U.S. and other laws applicable to marketed drug products and, in particular, laws (such as the Anti-Kickback Statute, the False Claims Act and the Sunshine Act) applicable when drug products are purchased or reimbursed by a federal healthcare program. U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act prohibit the offering or payment of bribes or inducements to foreign public officials, including potentially physicians or other medical professionals who are employees of public health care entities. In addition, many countries have their own laws similar to the healthcare compliance laws that exist in the U.S. Implementing and maintaining an effective compliance program requires the expenditure of significant time and resources. If we are found to be in violation of any of these laws, we may be subject to significant penalties, including but not limited to civil or criminal penalties, damages and fines as well as exclusion from government healthcare programs.. We may face difficulties from changes to current regulations as well as future legislation.. Existing regulatory policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent, limit or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the U.S. or abroad. If we are slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing requirements or the adoption of new requirements or policies, or if we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may lose any marketing approval that we may have obtained and we may not achieve or sustain profitability.. There is uncertainty with respect to the impact that health care reform legislation may have on coverage and reimbursement for healthcare items and services covered by plans that are authorized by the ACA. President Trump and various members of Congress have expressed a desire to repeal all or portions of the ACA and in December 2017 portions of the ACA dealing with the individual mandate insurance requirement were effectively repealed by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the ACA was enacted. President Trump and the Secretary of Health and Human Services have also made statements about controlling drug prices. We cannot predict the ultimate content, timing or effect of any healthcare reform legislation or executive order or the impact that the resulting changes may have on us.. We expect that the ACA, if it remains in effect, as well as other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, may result in more rigorous coverage criteria and in additional downward pressure on the price that we receive for any approved product. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare or other government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payers. The implementation of cost containment measures or other healthcare reforms may prevent us from being able to generate sufficient revenue, attain and/or maintain profitability or commercialize our product candidates. We cannot be sure whether additional legislative changes will be enacted, or whether FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations will be changed, or what the impact of such changes on OMIDRIA or the marketing approvals of our product candidates, if any, may be.. 31. U.S. federal income tax reform could adversely affect us.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or 2017 Tax Act, was signed into law. The 2017 Tax Act, among other things, includes changes to U.S. federal tax rates, imposes additional limitations on the deductibility of interest, changes to the Orphan Drug Credit, allows for the expensing of capital expenditures, puts into effect the migration from a \"worldwide\" system of taxation to a territorial system and modifies or repeals many business deductions and credits. The estimated impact of the 2017 Tax Act is based on our management's current knowledge and assumptions and recognized impacts could be materially different from current estimates based on further analysis of the new law. We have revalued our net deferred tax assets and liabilities at the newly enacted U.S. corporate rate, and the estimated impact was recognized in our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017.. Failure to obtain and maintain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions would prevent us from marketing our products internationally.. We intend to have OMIDRIA and our product candidates, if approved, marketed outside the U.S. In order to market our products in non-U.S. jurisdictions, we or our partners must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The regulatory approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing and data review. The requirements governing marketing authorization, the conduct of clinical trials, pricing and reimbursement vary from country to country. Approval by the FDA or the EMA does not ensure approval by regulatory agencies in other jurisdictions, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory agencies in other foreign countries or by the FDA. The time required to obtain regulatory approval outside the U.S. and EU may differ from that required to obtain FDA or EMA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval discussed in these \"Risk Factors\" and we may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, or at all. In addition, even if we were able to obtain regulatory approval for a product in one or more foreign jurisdictions, we may need to complete additional requirements to maintain that approval and our ability to market the product in the applicable jurisdiction. For example, OMIDRIA must be placed on the market (i.e., released into the distribution chain) in at least one EEA country by July 28, 2018 in order for our EU marketing authorization for OMIDRIA to remain valid.. OMIDRIA, as well as any of our product candidates, if approved, that are marketed outside of the United States, may face a variety of risks associated with international operations that, if realized, could materially adversely affect our business.. We may be subject to additional risks for OMIDRIA or any of our product candidates that are marketed outside the U.S., including:. • reduced protection for intellectual property rights;. • unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements;. • economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets;. • foreign currency fluctuations and other obligations incident to doing business in another country; and. • business interruptions resulting from geopolitical actions, including war and terrorism or natural disasters including earthquakes, typhoons, floods and fires.. Any of these risks, if realized, could increase our operating expenses and reduce our revenues.. We have no internal capacity to manufacture commercial or clinical supplies of OMIDRIA or our product candidates and intend to rely solely on third-party manufacturers. If the contract manufacturers that we rely on experience difficulties manufacturing and supplying OMIDRIA or our product candidates or fail FDA or other regulatory inspections, our clinical trials, regulatory submissions and ability to sell OMIDRIA or any other commercialized product and generate revenue may be significantly limited or delayed.. We rely and intend to continue to rely on third-party manufacturers to produce commercial quantities of OMIDRIA and clinical drug supplies of our product candidates that are needed for clinical trials. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to enter into or maintain these types of arrangements on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we or the manufacturer were to terminate one of these arrangements early, or the manufacturer was unable to supply product quantities sufficient to meet our requirements, we would be required to transfer the manufacturing to an approved alternative facility and/or establish additional manufacturing and supply arrangements. We may also need to establish additional or replacement manufacturers, potentially with little or no notice, in the event that one of our manufacturers fails to comply with FDA and/or other pharmaceutical manufacturing regulatory requirements. Even if we are able to establish additional or replacement manufacturers, identifying these sources and entering into definitive supply agreements and obtaining regulatory approvals may. 32. require a substantial amount of time and cost and may create a shortage of the product. Such alternate supply arrangements may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Additionally, if we are unable to engage multiple suppliers to manufacture our products, we may have inadequate supply to meet the demand of our product.. Our contract manufacturers may encounter difficulties with formulation, manufacturing, supply chain and/or release processes that could result in delays in clinical trials and/or regulatory submissions or that could impact adversely the commercialization of our products or product candidates, as well as in the initiation of enforcement actions by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. These difficulties also could result in the recall or withdrawal of a product from the market or a failure to have adequate supplies to meet market demand. If the safety of OMIDRIA or any product candidate supplied by contract manufacturers is compromised due to one or more of those contract manufacturers' failure to adhere to applicable laws or for other reasons, we may not be able to maintain regulatory approval of OMIDRIA, to continue sales and marketing of OMIDRIA or to obtain and maintain regulatory approval for one or more of our product candidates, which would harm our business and prospects significantly.. In addition, any product candidate from certain of our programs, including but not limited to MASP-2 and MASP-3, could be a biologic drug product, and we do not have the internal capability to produce biologics for use in clinical trials or on a commercial scale. There are only a limited number of manufacturers of biologic drug products and we cannot be certain that we can enter into supply agreements with a sufficient number of them on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.. Any significant delays in the manufacture and/or supply of clinical or commercial supplies could materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Ingredients, excipients and other materials necessary to manufacture OMIDRIA or our product candidates may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which may adversely affect the development and commercialization of OMIDRIA or those product candidates.. We and our third-party manufacturers must obtain from third-party suppliers the active pharmaceutical ingredients, excipients, and/or other raw materials plus primary and secondary packaging materials necessary for our contract manufacturers to produce OMIDRIA and our product candidates for our clinical trials and, to the extent approved or commercialized, for commercial distribution. Although we have entered or intend to enter into agreements with third-party suppliers that will guarantee the availability and timely delivery of active pharmaceutical ingredients, excipients and materials for OMIDRIA and our product candidates, we have not yet entered into agreements for the supply of all such ingredients, excipients or materials, and we may be unable to secure all such supply agreements or guarantees on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Even if we were able to secure such agreements or guarantees, our suppliers may be unable or choose not to provide us the ingredients, excipients or materials in a timely manner or in the quantities required. If we or our third-party manufacturers are unable to obtain the quantities of these ingredients, excipients or materials that are necessary for the manufacture of commercial supplies of OMIDRIA, our ability to generate revenue from the sale of OMIDRIA would be materially and adversely affected. Further, if we or our third-party manufacturers are unable to obtain active pharmaceutical ingredients, excipients and materials as necessary for our clinical trials or for the manufacture of commercial supplies of our product candidates, if approved, potential regulatory approval or commercialization would be delayed, which would materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenue from the sale of our product candidates.. If our clinical trials are delayed, suspended or terminated, we may be unable to develop our product candidates on a timely basis, which would adversely affect our ability to obtain regulatory approvals, increase our development costs and delay or prevent commercialization of approved products.. We cannot predict whether we will encounter problems with any of our completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials that will cause regulatory agencies, institutional review boards or ethics committees, or us to delay our clinical trials or suspend or delay the analysis of the data from those trials. Clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including:. • discussions with the FDA, the EMA or other foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials;. • delays or the inability to obtain required approvals from institutional review boards, ethics committees or other responsible entities at clinical sites selected for participation in our clinical trials;. • delays in enrolling patients into clinical trials for any reason including disease severity, trial protocol design, study eligibility criteria, patient population size (e.g., for orphan diseases or for some pediatric indications), proximity and/or availability of clinical trial sites for prospective patients, availability of competing therapies and clinical trials, regional differences in diagnosis and treatment, perceived risks and benefits of the product or product candidate, physician patient referral practices or the ability to monitor patients adequately before and after treatment;. • lower than anticipated retention rates of patients in clinical trials;. 33. • the need to repeat or conduct additional clinical trials as a result of inconclusive or negative results, failure to replicate positive early clinical data in subsequent clinical trials, failure to deliver an efficacious dose of a product candidate, poorly executed testing, a failure of a clinical site to adhere to the clinical protocol, an unacceptable study design or other problems;. • adverse findings in clinical or nonclinical studies related to the safety of our product candidates in humans;. • an insufficient supply of product candidate materials or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials;. • the need to qualify new suppliers of product candidate materials for FDA and foreign regulatory approval;. • an unfavorable inspection or review by the FDA or other regulatory authority of a clinical trial site or records of any clinical investigation;. • the occurrence of unacceptable drug-related side effects or adverse events experienced by participants in our clinical trials;. • the suspension by a regulatory agency of a trial put on a clinical hold; or. • the amendment of clinical trial protocols to reflect changes in regulatory requirements and guidance or other reasons as well as subsequent re-examination of amendments of clinical trial protocols by institutional review boards or ethics committees.. In addition, a clinical trial or development program may be suspended or terminated by us, the FDA or other regulatory authorities, or institutional review boards or ethics committees due to a number of factors, including:. • failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols;. • inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold;. • the failure to remove a clinical hold in a timely manner (which we cannot predict with certainty), if at all;. • unforeseen safety issues or any determination that a trial presents unacceptable health risks;. • inability to deliver an efficacious dose of a product candidate; or. • lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial or development program, including the incurrence of unforeseen costs due to enrollment delays, requirements to conduct additional trials and studies and increased expenses associated with the services of our contract research organizations, or CROs, and other third parties.. If the results of our clinical trials are not available when we expect or if we encounter any delay in the analysis of data from our clinical trials, we may be unable to file for regulatory approval or conduct additional clinical trials on the schedule we currently anticipate. Many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of a product candidate. Any delays in completing our clinical trials could increase our development costs, could slow down our product development and regulatory submission process, could delay our receipt of product revenue and could make it difficult to raise additional capital. In addition, significant clinical trial delays also could allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do and impair our ability to commercialize our future products, potentially harming our business.. Because we have a number of product candidates and development programs, we may expend our limited resources to pursue a particular product candidate or indication and fail to capitalize on product candidates or indications for which there is a greater likelihood of obtaining regulatory approval and that may be more profitable, if approved.. We have limited resources and must focus on the product candidates and clinical and preclinical development programs that we believe are the most promising. As a result, we may forego or delay the pursuit of opportunities with other product candidates or other indications that later prove to have greater commercial potential and may not be able to progress development programs as rapidly as otherwise possible. Further, if we do not accurately evaluate the commercial potential or target market for a particular product candidate, we may relinquish valuable rights to that product through collaboration, license or other royalty arrangements in cases in which it would have been advantageous for us to retain sole development and commercialization rights.. Our preclinical programs may not produce product candidates that are suitable for clinical trials, our product candidates may not successfully complete clinical development and/or our product candidates may not be suitable for successful commercialization or generation of revenue through partnerships.. We must complete successfully preclinical testing, which may include demonstrating efficacy and the lack of toxicity in established animal models, before commencing clinical trials for any product candidate. Many pharmaceutical and biological product candidates do not successfully complete preclinical testing. There can be no assurance that positive results from preclinical studies will be predictive of results obtained from subsequent preclinical studies or clinical trials. Even if preclinical. 34. testing is successfully completed, we cannot be certain that any product candidates that do advance into clinical trials will successfully demonstrate safety and efficacy in clinical trials. Even if we achieve positive results in early clinical trials, they may not be predictive of the results in later trials.. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights and such costs or an adverse outcome in such a proceeding may have a material negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and/or stock price.. If we choose to go to court or take other enforcement action to stop someone else from using our inventions, that individual or company has the right to ask the court to rule that our underlying patents are invalid or should not be enforced against that third-party. These lawsuits are expensive and would consume time and other resources even if we were successful in stopping the infringement of our patents. In addition, a lawsuit could result in a finding that some or all of the claims of one or more of our relevant patents are invalid, unenforceable and/or not infringed, and could also result in a generic version of OMIDRIA being launched. There is also the risk that, even if the validity of these patents is upheld, the court will refuse to stop the other party on the ground that such other party's activities do not infringe our patents. An adverse outcome in any such legal action could have a material negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and/or stock price. See \"Legal Proceedings\" under Item 3 of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of our patent infringement lawsuits against Sandoz and against Lupin.. It may not be feasible to detect and undertake patent enforcement action to stop infringing activity by a number of individual entities, each on a small scale, such as compounding pharmacies. Further, our industry has produced a large number of patents and it is not always clear which patents cover various types of products or methods of use. A third party may claim that we or our contract manufacturers are using inventions covered by the third party's patent rights and may go to court to stop us from engaging in the alleged infringing activity, including making, using or selling our products and product candidates. These lawsuits are costly and could affect our results of operations and divert the attention of managerial and technical personnel. There is a risk that a court would decide that we, or our contract manufacturers, are infringing the third party's patents and would order us or our contractors to stop the activities covered by the patents. In addition, if we or our contract manufacturers are found to have violated a third party's patent, we or our contract manufacturers could be ordered to pay damages to the other party. We have agreed to or may agree to indemnify our contract manufacturers against certain patent infringement claims and thus may be responsible for any of their costs associated with such claims and actions. If we were sued for patent infringement, we would need to demonstrate that our products and product candidates or methods of use either do not infringe the patent claims of the relevant patent or that the patent claims are invalid, and we might be unable to do this. Proving invalidity, in particular, is difficult since it requires clear and convincing evidence to overcome the presumption of validity enjoyed by issued patents.. Although we have conducted searches of third-party patents with respect to our programs, we have not obtained written freedom to operate opinions for our programs and may not have identified all relevant third-party patents. Consequently, we cannot be certain that third-party patents containing claims covering our products, product candidates, programs, technologies or methods do not exist, have not been filed, or could not be filed or issued.. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the capital necessary to continue our operations.. It is difficult and costly to protect our intellectual property and our proprietary technologies, and we may not be able to ensure their protection.. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection for the use, formulation and structure of our products and product candidates, the methods used to manufacture them, the related therapeutic targets and associated methods of treatment as well as on successfully defending these patents against potential third-party challenges. Our ability to protect our products and product candidates from unauthorized making, using, selling, offering to sell or importing by third parties is dependent on the extent to which we have rights under valid and enforceable patents that cover these activities.. The patent positions of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other life sciences companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the U.S. and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. Further, the determination that a patent application or patent claim meets all of the requirements for patentability is a subjective determination based on the application of law and jurisprudence. The ultimate determination by the USPTO or by a court or other trier of fact in the U.S., or corresponding foreign national patent offices or courts, on whether a claim meets all requirements of patentability cannot be assured. Although we have conducted searches for third-party publications, patents and. 35. other information that may affect the patentability of claims in our various patent applications and patents, we cannot be certain that all relevant information has been identified. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or patent applications, in our licensed patents or patent applications or in third-party patents.. We cannot provide assurances that any of our patent applications will be found to be patentable, including over our own prior art patents, or will issue as patents. Neither can we make assurances as to the scope of any claims that may issue from our pending and future patent applications nor to the outcome of any proceedings by any potential third parties that could challenge the patentability, validity or enforceability of our patents and patent applications in the U.S. or foreign jurisdictions. Any such challenge, if successful, could limit patent protection for our products and product candidates and/or materially harm our business.. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. For example:. • we may not be able to generate sufficient data to support full patent applications that protect the entire breadth of developments in one or more of our programs, including our GPCR program;. • it is possible that one or more of our pending patent applications will not become an issued patent or, if issued, that the patent(s) will be sufficient to protect our technology, provide us with a basis for commercially viable products or provide us with any competitive advantages;. • if our pending applications issue as patents, they may be challenged by third parties as not infringed, invalid or unenforceable under U.S. or foreign laws; or. • if issued, the patents under which we hold rights may not be valid or enforceable.. In addition, to the extent that we are unable to obtain and maintain patent protection for one of our products or product candidates or in the event that such patent protection expires, it may no longer be cost-effective to extend our portfolio by pursuing additional development of a product or product candidate for follow-on indications.. We also may rely on trade secrets to protect our technologies or products, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. Although we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisers may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. Enforcing a claim that a third-party entity illegally obtained and is using any of our trade secrets is expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the U.S. are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how.. The terms of our debt facility place restrictions on our operating and financial flexibility and, if we raise additional capital through debt financing, the terms of any new debt could further restrict our ability to operate our business.. We have borrowed $80.0 million under the CRG Loan Agreement and pledged substantially all of our assets, including intellectual property, as collateral. The CRG Loan Agreement restricts our ability to, among other things, incur indebtedness, grant liens, dispose of assets, make investments, make acquisitions, enter into certain transactions with affiliates, pay cash dividends or make distributions, repurchase stock, license certain of our intellectual property on an exclusive basis and engage in significant business transactions such as a change of control. Any of these restrictions could significantly limit our operating and financial flexibility and ability to respond to changes in our business or competitive activities.. The CRG Loan Agreement requires us to achieve either (a) certain minimum net revenue amounts through the end of 2021, which are $65.0 million and $75.0 million for the 2018 and 2019 calendar years, respectively, or (b) a minimum market capitalization threshold equal to the product of 6.4 multiplied by the aggregate principal amount of loans outstanding under the CRG Loan Agreement determined as of the fifth business day following announcement of earnings results for the applicable year. In the event we do not achieve either of the minimum revenue amount or the minimum market capitalization threshold for a year, we can satisfy the requirement by raising additional funds through an equity or subordinated debt issuance and using the proceeds to pay down the loan balance by an amount equal to the difference between the minimum revenue amount for such year and the actual revenue amount for such year. We recorded net sales of OMIDRIA of $64.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, which satisfied the minimum net revenue amounts from OMIDRIA for 2017. However, we cannot guarantee that we will satisfy the 2018 annual revenue covenant in the CRG Loan Agreement or the alternative market capitalization covenant that will be calculated in February or March 2019, or that there would not otherwise be a \"material adverse change\" under the CRG Loan Agreement, each of which would constitute an event of default. We are also required to maintain $5.0 million in cash and cash equivalents during the term of the CRG Loan Agreement.. The failure to satisfy these or other obligations under the CRG Loan Agreement would constitute an event of default. An event of default under the CRG Loan Agreement also includes the occurrence of any material adverse effect upon our business,. 36. condition (financial or otherwise), operations, performance or property taken as a whole. If there is an event of default under the CRG Loan Agreement, the lenders may have the right to accelerate all of our repayment obligations under the CRG Loan Agreement and to take control of our pledged assets, which include substantially all of our assets including our intellectual property. Upon the acceleration of the loan, we will be required to repay the loan immediately or to attempt to reverse the declaration through negotiation or litigation. Further, if we are liquidated, the lenders' right to repayment would be senior to the rights of the holders of our common stock to receive any proceeds from the liquidation. Any declaration of an event of default could significantly harm our business and prospects and could cause our stock price to decline. If we raise any additional debt financing, the terms of such debt could further restrict our operating and financial flexibility.. Under the CRG Loan Agreement, we may borrow up to an additional $45.0 million on or before May 20, 2018 at our sole discretion, subject to customary closing conditions, including without limitation the lack of a default and the lack of an occurrence of a material adverse change in or on the business, condition (financial or otherwise), operations, performance or property of Omeros and its subsidiaries taken as a whole. If we are unable to satisfy any of these conditions, we will not be able to borrow any of the additional $45.0 million and it may be necessary for us to seek alternative sources of capital.. Our competitors may develop products that are less expensive, safer or more effective, or which may otherwise diminish or eliminate the success of any products that we may commercialize.. We may not achieve commercial success if our competitors, many of whom have significantly more resources and experience than we, market products that are safer, more effective, less expensive or faster to reach the market than OMIDRIA or any future products that we may develop and commercialize. Our competitors also may market a product that proves to be unsafe or ineffective, which may affect the market for our competing product, or future product, regardless of the safety or efficacy of our product. The failure of OMIDRIA or any other future product that we may market to compete effectively with products marketed by our competitors would impair our ability to generate revenue, which would have a material adverse effect on our future business, our financial condition and our results of operations.. The loss of members of our management team could substantially disrupt our business operations.. Our success depends to a significant degree on the continued individual and collective contributions of our management team. The members of our management team are at-will employees, and we do not maintain any key-person life insurance policies other than on the life of Gregory A. Demopulos, M.D., our president, chief executive officer and chairman of the board of directors. Losing the services of any key member of our management team, whether from death or disability, retirement, competing offers or other causes, without having a readily available and appropriate replacement could delay the execution of our business strategy, cause us to lose a strategic partner, or otherwise materially affect our operations.. We rely on highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire qualified personnel, we may not be able to maintain our operations or grow effectively.. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. If we are unable to hire and train a sufficient number of qualified employees for any reason, we may not be able to implement our current initiatives or grow effectively. We have in the past maintained a rigorous, highly selective and time-consuming hiring process. We believe that our approach to hiring has significantly contributed to our success to date. If we do not succeed in attracting qualified personnel and retaining and motivating existing personnel, our existing operations may suffer and we may be unable to grow effectively.. We may encounter difficulties managing our growth, which could delay our business plans or adversely affect our results of operations.. To manage our anticipated future growth, we must continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational and financial systems and continue to recruit and train additional qualified personnel. Due to our limited financial resources, we may not be able to manage effectively the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. The physical expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs and may divert our management and business development resources. Any inability to manage growth could delay the execution of our business plans or disrupt our operations. Additionally, our inability to manage growth effectively could cause our operating costs to grow even faster than we currently are anticipating.. 37. Product liability claims may damage our reputation and, if insurance proves inadequate, these claims may harm our business.. We may be exposed to the risk of product liability claims that is inherent in the biopharmaceutical industry. A product liability claim may damage our reputation by raising questions about our product's safety and efficacy and could limit our ability to sell one or more products by preventing or interfering with commercialization of our products and product candidates. In addition, product liability insurance for the biopharmaceutical industry is generally expensive to the extent it is available at all. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or that we will be able to secure and maintain increased coverage for OMIDRIA or for our product candidates, if commercialization progresses, or that future claims against us will be covered by our product liability insurance. Further, our product liability insurance coverage may not reimburse us or may be insufficient to reimburse us for any or all expenses or losses we may suffer. A successful claim against us with respect to uninsured liabilities or in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on third parties to conduct portions of our preclinical research and clinical trials. If these third parties do not perform as contractually required or otherwise expected, or if we fail to adequately supervise or monitor these parties, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates.. We rely on third parties, such as CROs, medical and research institutions and clinical investigators, to conduct a portion of our preclinical research and assist us in conducting our clinical trials. Nonetheless, we are responsible for confirming that our preclinical research and clinical trials are conducted in accordance with applicable regulations, the relevant trial protocol and within the context of approvals by an institutional review board or ethics committee, and we may not always be successful in ensuring such compliance. Our reliance on these third parties does not relieve us of responsibility for ensuring compliance with FDA and other regulations and standards for conducting, monitoring, recording and reporting the results of preclinical research and clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, if the third parties need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to their failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our preclinical and clinical development processes may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able to commercialize or obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates.. We may need to maintain licenses for active ingredients from third parties to develop and commercialize some of our product candidates, which could increase our development costs and delay our ability to commercialize those product candidates.. Should we decide to use active pharmaceutical ingredients in any of our product candidates that are proprietary to one or more third parties, such as our PDE7 program (OMS527), we would need to maintain licenses to those active ingredients from those third parties. If we are unable to continue to access rights to these active ingredients prior to conducting preclinical toxicology studies intended to support clinical trials, we may need to develop alternate product candidates from these programs by either accessing or developing alternate active ingredients, resulting in increased development costs and delays in commercialization of these product candidates. If we are unable to maintain continued access rights to the desired active ingredients on commercially reasonable terms or develop suitable alternate active ingredients, or if we do not meet diligence or other obligations under the corresponding licenses, we may not be able to commercialize product candidates from these programs.. We use hazardous materials in our business and must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive.. Our research operations produce hazardous waste products, which include chemicals and radioactive and biological materials. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local regulations relating to the use, handling, storage and disposal of these materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with applicable legal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. We generally contract with third parties for the disposal of such substances and store our low-level radioactive waste at our facility until the materials are no longer considered radioactive. We may be required to incur further costs to comply with current or future environmental and safety regulations. In addition, although we carry insurance, in the event of accidental contamination or injury from these materials, we could be held liable for any damages that result and any such liability could exceed our insurance coverage and other resources.. Cyber-attacks or other failures in telecommunications or information technology systems could result in information theft, data corruption and significant disruption of our business operations.. 38. We utilize information technology, or IT, systems and networks to process, transmit and store electronic information in connection with our business activities. As use of digital technologies has increased, cyber incidents, including deliberate attacks and attempts to gain unauthorized access to computer systems and networks, have increased in frequency and sophistication. These threats pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks, the confidentiality and the availability and integrity of our data. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in preventing cyber-attacks or successfully mitigating their effects. Similarly, there can be no assurance that our collaborators, CROs, third-party logistics providers, distributors and other contractors and consultants will be successful in protecting our clinical and other data that is stored on their systems. Any cyber-attack or destruction or loss of data could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. In addition, we may suffer reputational harm or face litigation or adverse regulatory action as a result of cyber-attacks or other data security breaches and may incur significant additional expense to implement further data protection measures.. We currently depend on a third-party for the commercialization of OMS103 and we cannot guarantee that such commercialization will occur or be successful.. In June 2015 we entered into the OMS103 Agreement pursuant to which we granted Fagron an exclusive, royalty-free license to the OMS103 intellectual property, manufacturing information and clinical data to manufacture and commercialize OMS103 in the U.S. in exchange for potential future payments based on product revenue and achievement of commercial milestones. As a result of entering into the OMS103 Agreement, we discontinued our OMS103 clinical development program and are dependent on Fagron to commercialize OMS103 in the U.S. We cannot control whether Fagron will fulfill its obligations under the OMS103 Agreement or whether the commercialization of OMS103 will be successful. Fagron has not performed its diligence milestones in the OMS103 Agreement, including initiating sales of OMS103, and we believe that it is unlikely they will do so. We continue to evaluate our options with respect to the OMS103 Agreement and the OMS103 program. If we elect to pursue arbitration with Fagron, and/or the OMS103 Agreement is terminated, we can provide no assurances that we will be able to enter into another licensing agreement or have sufficient resources to restart clinical development and conduct any clinical trials if desired. Any of the above risks, if realized, could adversely affect our results of operations.. Under Section 503B of the FDCA, registered outsourcing facilities are required to manufacture under GMP and are subject to FDA inspections and audits. They also are not allowed to manufacture a product that is essentially a copy of one or more FDA-approved drugs. If a licensed registered outsourcing facility such as Fagron is prohibited from commercializing or from continuing commercial sales of OMS103 following initial commercialization because of violations of any FDA regulations or any other reason, our ability to generate revenue from royalty payments from the licensed registered outsourcing facility and achieve profitability will be adversely affected and the market price of our common stock could decline.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, and the value of an investment in our common stock may decline.. During the 12-month period ended December 31, 2017, our stock traded as high as $27.09 per share and as low as $8.71 per share. The trading price of our common stock is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of publicly traded companies. Broad market and industry factors may seriously affect the market price of companies' stock, including ours, regardless of actual operating performance. These fluctuations may be even more pronounced in the trading market for our stock. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources.. If we issue additional shares of our common stock or other securities that may be convertible into, or exercisable or exchangeable for, our common stock, our existing shareholders would experience further dilution.. To the extent that we raise additional funds in the future by issuing equity securities, our shareholders would experience dilution, which may be significant and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly. In addition, approximately 9,757,861 shares of common stock as of December 31, 2017 subject to outstanding options and warrants may become eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of various vesting agreements. Further, as of December 31, 2017 we also had approximately 3,513,540 shares of common stock reserved for future issuance under our employee benefit plans that are not subject to outstanding options. If the holders of these outstanding options or warrants elect. 39. to exercise some or all of them, or if the shares subject to our employee benefit plans are issued and become eligible for sale in the public market, our shareholders would experience dilution and the market price of our common stock could decline.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Washington law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our shareholders, difficult and prevent attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management.. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws and under Washington law may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. These provisions include a classified board of directors, a prohibition on shareholder actions by less than unanimous written consent, restrictions on the ability of shareholders to fill board vacancies and the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval. In addition, because we are incorporated in Washington, we are governed by the provisions of Chapter 23B.19 of the Washington Business Corporation Act, which, among other things, restricts the ability of shareholders owning 10% or more of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us. Although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if an offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management by making it difficult for shareholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management.. We have never declared or paid dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future.. Our business requires significant funding. We currently plan to invest all available funds and future earnings, if any, in the development and growth of our business. Additionally, under the CRG Loan Agreement, we have agreed not to pay any cash dividends. Therefore, we currently do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. As a result, a rise in the market price of our common stock, which is uncertain and unpredictable, will be the sole source of potential gain for shareholders in the foreseeable future, and an investment in our common stock for dividend income should not be relied upon.. 40"
