[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our current and prospective investors should carefully consider the following risks and all other information contained in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and the \"Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,\" before making investment decisions regarding our securities. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face, but include the most significant factors currently known by us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. In that case, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose some or all of your investment.. We have a history of losses and may not achieve consistent profitability in the future.. We generated net losses of $14.3 million, $85.5 million and $2.2 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $222.8 million. We will need to generate and sustain increased revenue levels in future periods in order to become profitable in the future, and, even if we do, we may not be able to maintain or increase our level of profitability.  We intend to continue to expend significant funds on our marketing and sales operations, increasing our investment in technology and analytics capabilities, increasing our customer service and general loan servicing capabilities, meeting the increased compliance requirements associated with our operation as a public company and changing regulatory requirements, and upgrading our technology infrastructure and expanding in existing or possibly new markets.  In addition, we record our loan loss provision as an expense to account for the possibility that loans we intend to hold (rather than sell) may not be repaid in full. Because we incur a given loan loss expense at the time that we issue the loans we intend to hold, we expect the aggregate amount of this expense to grow as we increase the total amount of loans we make to our customers.. Our efforts to grow our business may be more costly than we expect, and we may not be able to increase our revenue enough to offset our higher operating expenses. We may incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including the other risks described in this report, and unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications and delays, and other unknown events. If we are unable to achieve and sustain profitability, the market price of our common stock may significantly decrease.. Worsening economic conditions may result in decreased demand for our loans, cause our customers' default rates to increase and harm our operating results.. Uncertainty and negative trends in general economic conditions in the United States and abroad, including significant tightening of credit markets, historically have created a difficult environment for companies in the lending industry. Many factors, including factors that are beyond our control, may have a detrimental impact on our operating performance. These factors include general economic conditions, unemployment levels, energy costs and interest rates, as well as events such as natural disasters, acts of war, terrorism and catastrophes.. Our customers are small businesses. Accordingly, our customers historically have been, and may in the future remain, more likely to be affected or more severely affected than large enterprises by adverse economic conditions. These conditions may result in a decline in the demand for our loans by potential customers, higher default rates, or both by our existing customers. If a customer defaults on a loan payable to us, the loan enters a collections process where our systems and collections teams initiate contact with the customer for payments owed. If a loan is subsequently charged off, historically we had generally sold the loan to a third-party collection agency in exchange for only a small fraction of the remaining amount payable to us.. In addition, we recently changed and expect to continue our collections strategy to retain more and sell fewer charged-off loans, with the goal of achieving higher recoveries. There is no assurance that this strategy will be successful, and it could result in lower recoveries than we have realized historically from selling charged-off loans. It may also lead to increased litigation, negative publicity and harm to our reputation.. There can be no assurance that economic conditions will remain favorable for our business or that demand for our loans or default rates by our customers will remain at current levels. Reduced demand for our loans would negatively impact our growth and revenue, while increased default rates by our customers may inhibit our access to capital, including debt warehouse facilities, securitizations and OnDeck Marketplace, and negatively impact our profitability. Customer default rates and changes in the financial markets, including changes in credit markets and interest rates, can also impact the price that investors are willing to pay for our loans through OnDeck Marketplace, if at all, which can adversely impact our gain on sale revenue and limit our financing alternatives. Furthermore, we have received a large number of applications from potential customers who do not satisfy the requirements for an OnDeck loan. If an insufficient number of qualified small businesses apply for our loans, our growth and revenue could decline.. 13. Table of Contents. An increase in customer default rates may reduce our overall profitability and could also affect our ability to attract institutional funding. Further, historical default rates may not be indicative of future results.. Customer default rates may be significantly affected by economic downturns or general economic conditions beyond our control and beyond the control of individual customers. In particular, loss rates on customer loans may increase due to factors such as prevailing interest rates, the rate of unemployment, the level of consumer and business confidence, commercial real estate values, the value of the U.S. dollar, energy prices, changes in consumer and business spending, the number of personal and business bankruptcies, disruptions in the credit markets and other factors. We offer both our term loan and line of credit loans to the same customers, subject to customary credit and loan underwriting procedures. To the extent that our customers borrow from us under both types of loans and default, our losses could be greater than if we had offered them only one type of loan. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, approximately 27.9% of our total loans outstanding related to customers with fewer than five years of operating history. While our OnDeck Score is designed to establish that, notwithstanding such limited operating and financial history, customers would be a reasonable credit risk, our loans may nevertheless be expected to have a higher default rate than loans made to customers with more established operating and financial histories. In addition, if default rates, delinquency rates or certain performance metrics reach certain levels, the principal of our securitized notes or other borrowings may be required to be paid down, and we may no longer be able to borrow from our debt facilities to fund future loans. In addition, if customer default rates increase beyond forecast levels, returns for investors in our OnDeck Marketplace program will decline and demand by investors to participate in this program will decrease, each of which will harm our reputation and operating results.. Our risk management efforts may not be effective.. We could incur substantial losses and our business operations could be disrupted if we are unable to effectively identify, manage, monitor and mitigate financial risks, such as credit risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, and other market-related risk, as well as operational risks related to our business, assets and liabilities. To the extent our models used to assess the creditworthiness of potential customers do not adequately identify potential risks, the OnDeck Score produced would not adequately represent the risk profile of such customers and could result in higher risk than anticipated. Our risk management policies, procedures, and techniques, including our use of our proprietary OnDeck Score technology, may not be sufficient to identify all of the risks we are exposed to, mitigate the risks that we have identified or identify concentrations of risk or additional risks to which we may become subject in the future. Furthermore, there may be a lag in the time in which a customer begins to show signs of an inability to pay back a loan and when we begin to take remedial action in respect this loan, and as a consequence this could impair our eventual ability to receive repayment on the loan.. We rely on our proprietary credit models in the forecasting of loss rates. If we are unable to effectively forecast loss rates, it can materially adversely affect our operating results.   Our use of judgmental underwriting has similar risks.. In making a decision whether to extend credit to prospective customers, we rely primarily on our OnDeck Score, the credit score generated by our proprietary credit-scoring model and decisioning system, an empirically derived suite of statistical models built using third-party data, data from our customers and our credit experience gained through monitoring the performance of our customers over time. If our proprietary credit-scoring model and decisioning system fails to adequately predict the creditworthiness of our customers, including because the factors used to determine the customer's creditworthiness were not representative of such customer's true credit risk profile, we have in the past recorded, and may in the future need to record, additional provision expense and/or experience higher than forecasted losses.  In addition, if our proprietary cash flow analytics system fails to assess prospective customers' financial ability to repay their loans, or if any portion of the information pertaining to the prospective customer is false, inaccurate or incomplete, and our systems did not detect such falsities, inaccuracies or incompleteness, or any or all of the other components of our credit decision process fails, we may experience higher than forecasted losses. Furthermore, if we are unable to access the third-party data used in our OnDeck Score, or our access to such data is limited, our ability to accurately evaluate potential customers will be compromised, and we may be unable to effectively predict probable credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio, which would negatively impact our results of operations.. Additionally, if we make errors in the development and validation of any of the models or tools we use to underwrite the loans that we securitize or sell to investors, these investors may experience higher delinquencies and losses and we may be subject to liability. Moreover, if future performance of our customers' loans differs from past experience (driven by factors, including but not limited to, macroeconomic factors, policy actions by regulators, lending by other institutions and reliability of data used in the underwriting process), which experience has informed the development of the underwriting procedures employed by us, delinquency rates and losses to investors of our securitized debt from our customers' loans could increase, thereby potentially subjecting us to liability. This inability to effectively forecast loss rates could also inhibit our ability to borrow from our debt facilities, which could further hinder our growth and harm our financial performance.. 14. Table of Contents. Our allowance for loan losses is determined based upon both objective and subjective factors and may not be adequate to absorb loan losses.. We face the risk on the loans that we hold that our customers will fail to repay their loans in full. We reserve for such losses by establishing an allowance for loan losses, the increase of which results in a reduction of our earnings as we recognize a provision expense for loan losses. We have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. While this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the forecasts and establishment of loan losses are also dependent on our subjective assessment based upon our experience and judgment. Actual losses are difficult to forecast, especially if such losses stem from factors beyond our experience, and unlike traditional banks, we are not subject to periodic review by bank regulatory agencies of our allowance for loan losses.  In addition, for our line of credit product we estimate probable losses on unfunded loan commitments in a process similar to that used for the allowance for loan losses.. As a result, there can be no assurance that our allowance for loan losses or accrual for probable losses on unfunded line of credit commitments will be comparable to that of traditional banks subject to regulatory oversight or sufficient to absorb losses or prevent a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business may be adversely affected by disruptions in the credit markets, our failure to comply with our debt agreements, or the termination of our debt agreements, any of which could result in reduced access to credit and other financing.  Additionally, OnDeck Marketplace has continued to decline as a part of our overall funding strategy and there is no assurance that OnDeck Marketplace participants will continue to purchase our loans.. Historically, we have depended on debt facilities and other forms of debt in order to finance most of the loans we make to our customers. However, we cannot guarantee that these financing sources will continue to be available beyond the current maturity date of each debt facility, on reasonable terms or at all. As the volume of loans that we make to customers on our platform increases, we may require the expansion of our borrowing capacity of our existing debt facilities and other debt arrangements or the addition of new sources of capital. The availability of these financing sources depends on many factors, some of which are outside of our control. We may also experience the occurrence of events of default or breaches of financial performance or other covenants under our debt agreements, which could reduce or terminate our access to institutional funding.. In addition, OnDeck Marketplace has substantially declined as a portion of our funding strategy. For each of the three months ended March 31, 2017, June 30, 2017, September 30, 2017, and December 31, 2017 OnDeck Marketplace represented 9.1%, 2.3%, 1.3% and 3.9% of our term loan originations, respectively. In addition, the premiums we were paid in 2017 were lower than those received in 2016. By selling fewer loans via OnDeck Marketplace and at lower premiums, we realized lower gain on sale of loans and hold more of our term loan originations on our balance sheet, which requires us to self-fund or finance a larger amount of loans. As a result, we have used, and may continue to use, available cash on hand to fund originations. While the premiums on sales of loans via OnDeck Marketplace have decreased, we have continued selling a portion of our loans through OnDeck Marketplace to maintain active relationships with institutional loan purchasers and to obtain additional funding.  However, to the extent that institutional investors that purchase loans from us through OnDeck Marketplace rely on credit to finance those loan purchases, disruptions in the credit market could further harm our ability to grow or maintain OnDeck Marketplace. We may continue selling a portion of our loans via OnDeck Marketplace, however, there can be no assurance that these investors will continue to purchase our loans via OnDeck Marketplace.. We also rely on securitization as part of our funding strategy and have executed two securitization transactions, one of which, with $250 million of capacity, is currently outstanding under which cash flow can be used to purchase additional loans through April 30, 2018. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully access the securitization markets again. In the event of a sudden or unexpected shortage of funds in the banking and financial system, we cannot be sure that we will be able to maintain necessary levels of funding without incurring high funding costs, a reduction in the term of funding instruments or the liquidation of certain assets.. Furthermore, during 2018, several of our debt facilities are scheduled to mature, representing an aggregate of $313.2 million of debt capacity, including $30 million in October 2018, $119.7 million in November 2018, $125 million in December 2018 and an aggregate of $38.5 million under other facilities at various dates throughout 2018.  We may not be able to extend or renew these maturing debt facilities.. Accordingly, if we are unable to renew or otherwise replace these facilities or generally arrange new or alternative methods of financing, our ability to finance additional loans utilizing these financing sources will end. The interest rates and other costs of new, renewed or amended facilities may also be higher than those currently in effect. If we are unable to renew or otherwise replace these facilities or generally arrange new or alternative methods of financing on favorable terms, we may be. 15. Table of Contents. forced to curtail our origination of loans or reduce operations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.. Increases in customer default rates could make us and our loans less attractive to lenders under debt facilities and investors in securitizations and institutional purchasers in OnDeck Marketplace which may adversely affect our access to financing and our business.. We principally rely on credit facilities, securitizations and OnDeck Marketplace to fund our loans.  Increases in customer default rates could make us and our loans less attractive to our existing (or prospective) funding sources.  If our existing funding sources do not achieve their desired financial returns or if they suffer losses, they (or prospective funding sources) may increase the cost of providing future financing or refuse to provide future financing on terms acceptable to us or at all.. Our debt facilities for our funding debt and our securitization are non-recourse to On Deck Capital, Inc. and are collateralized by our loans.  If the loans securing such debt facilities and securitization fail to perform as expected, the lenders under our credit facilities and investors in our securitization, or future lenders or investors in similar arrangements, may increase the cost of providing financing or refuse to provide financing on terms acceptable to us or at all.. If we were to be unable to arrange new or alternative methods of financing on favorable terms, we may have to curtail or cease our origination of loans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.. Purchasers of loans in OnDeck Marketplace bear the risks of loan ownership. Unsatisfactory performance of our loans may reduce investor confidence and reduce the willingness of investors to participate in OnDeck Marketplace, which could harm our ability to grow or maintain OnDeck Marketplace. In addition, the gain on sale of loans through OnDeck Marketplace has declined from $14.4 million, or 5.0% of gross revenue in 2016 to $2.5 million, or 0.7% of our gross revenue in 2017 reflecting a lower percentage of our terms loans sold into OnDeck Marketplace. Because we decided to hold more loans on our balance sheet and sell fewer loans through OnDeck Marketplace, our provision expense and interest expense have increased, reducing our operating results.. Our recent growth may not be indicative of our future growth and, if we continue to grow, we may not be able to manage our growth effectively.. Our gross revenue grew to $351.0 million in 2017 from $291.3 million in 2016 and from $254.8 million in 2015. We expect that, in the future, even if our revenue continues to increase, our rate of revenue growth may decline.. In addition, we expect to continue to expend substantial financial and other resources on:. • marketing, including expenses relating to increased direct marketing efforts;. • expanding product offerings;. • product development, including the continued development of our platform and OnDeck Score;. • technology and analytics, including OnDeck-as-a-Service;. • diversification of funding sources;. • broadening distribution capabilities through strategic partnerships and funding advisors;. • general administration, including legal, accounting and other compliance expenses related to being a public company; and. • expansion in Canada and Australia, and possibly into new international geographies.. In addition, our historical growth has placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our management and our operational and financial resources. Finally, as our business grows, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls as well as our reporting systems and procedures. If we cannot manage our growth effectively, our financial results will suffer.. 16. Table of Contents. We have a limited operating history in an evolving industry, which makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and may increase the risk that we will not be successful.. We have a limited operating history in an evolving industry that may not develop as expected. Assessing our business and future prospects is challenging in light of the risks and difficulties we may encounter. These risks and difficulties include our ability to:. • increase the number and total volume of term loans and lines of credit we extend to our customers;. • improve the terms on which we lend to our customers as our business becomes more efficient;. • increase the effectiveness of our direct marketing, as well as our strategic partner and Funding Advisor Program customer acquisition channels;. • maintain or increase repeat borrowing by existing customers;. • successfully develop and deploy new types of loans and new loan features;. • successfully expand OnDeck-as-a-Service to additional lenders;. • successfully maintain our diversified funding strategy, including through debt warehouse facilities, possible future securitization transactions and OnDeck Marketplace;. • favorably compete with other companies that are currently in, or may in the future enter, the business of lending to small businesses including traditional lenders;. • successfully navigate economic conditions and fluctuations in the credit market;. • effectively manage the growth of our business;. • obtain debt or equity capital on attractive terms;. • successfully expand internationally; and. • anticipate and react to changes to an evolving regulatory environment.. We may not be able to successfully address these risks and difficulties, which could harm our business and cause our operating results to suffer.. Competition for our employees is intense. As expected, our 2017 reduction in force negatively impacted our hiring and retention of employees. Failure to attract and retain qualified employees can have a material adverse effect on our business.. Competition for our employees, including and especially highly skilled engineering, data analytics, risk management and finance personnel, is extremely intense reflecting a tight labor market, particularly in New York City. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced employees have greater resources than we have and may be able to offer more attractive financial terms of employment. In addition, candidates making employment decisions often consider the value of any equity they may receive in connection with their employment. Any significant volatility or performance issues in the price of our stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain highly skilled technical, financial, marketing and other personnel. We also invest significant time and expense in training our employees, which increases their value to other companies that may seek to recruit them.. In 2017, we implemented a cost rationalization program to realign our cost structure and improve our financial performance. As part of this program we had significant headcount reductions, due to both announced layoffs and scheduled attrition. As a result of these actions, we have experienced increased levels of employee attrition which was not unexpected given the size of the reduction in force. The overall competition for our employees and any continuing impact of our headcount reductions may make it more difficult and/or expensive to recruit and retain talent and train new employees. Failure to attract and retain qualified employees could have a material adverse effect on our business including our ability to execute our growth plans.. We rely on our management team and need additional key personnel to grow our business, and the loss of key employees or inability to hire key personnel could harm our business.. We believe our success has depended, and continues to depend, on the efforts and talents of our executives and employees, including Noah Breslow, our Chief Executive Officer. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain highly qualified and skilled employees. Qualified individuals are in high demand, and we may incur significant. 17. Table of Contents. costs to attract and retain them. In addition, the loss of any of our senior management or key employees could materially adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan and strategy, and we may not be able to find adequate replacements on a timely basis, or at all. Our executive officers and other employees are at-will employees, which means they may terminate their employment relationship with us at any time, and their knowledge of our business and industry would be extremely difficult to replace. We cannot ensure that we will be able to retain the services of any members of our senior management or other key employees. If we do not succeed in attracting well-qualified employees or retaining and motivating existing employees, our business could be materially and adversely affected.. Security breaches of customers' confidential information that we store may harm our reputation and expose us to liability.. We store our customers' bank information, credit information and other sensitive data. Any accidental or willful security breaches or other unauthorized access could cause the theft and criminal use of this data. Security breaches or unauthorized access to confidential information could also expose us to liability related to the loss of the information, time-consuming and expensive litigation and negative publicity. If security measures are breached because of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, or if design flaws in our software are exposed and exploited, and, as a result, a third party obtains unauthorized access to any of our customers' data, our relationships with our customers will be severely damaged, and we could incur significant liability.. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until they are launched against a target, we and our third-party hosting facilities may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. In addition, many states have enacted laws requiring companies to notify individuals of data security breaches involving their personal data. These mandatory disclosures regarding a security breach are costly to implement and often lead to widespread negative publicity, which may cause our customers to lose confidence in the effectiveness of our data security measures. Any security breach, whether actual or perceived, would harm our reputation and we could lose customers.. The collection, processing, use, storage, sharing and transmission of personal data could give rise to liabilities as a result of federal, state and international laws and regulations, as well as our failure to adhere to the privacy and data security practices that we articulate to our customers.. We collect, process, store, use, share and/or transmit a large volume of personally identifiable information and other sensitive data from current and prospective customers. There are federal, state, and foreign laws regarding privacy and the collection, use, storage, protection, sharing and/or transmission of personally identifiable information and sensitive data. Any violations of these laws and regulations may require us to change our business practices or operational structure, address legal claims, and sustain monetary penalties, reputational damage and/or other harms to our business.. Furthermore, our online privacy policy and website make certain statements regarding our privacy and data security practices with regard to information collected from our customers.  Failure to adhere to such practices may result in regulatory scrutiny and investigation, complaints by affected customers, reputational damage and other harm to our business.   If either we, or the third party service providers with which we share customer data, are unable to address privacy concerns, even if unfounded, or to comply with applicable laws and regulations, it could result in additional costs and liability, damage our reputation, and harm our business.. Our ability to collect payment on loans and maintain accurate accounts may be adversely affected by computer malware, social engineering, phishing, physical or electronic break-ins, technical errors and similar disruptions.. The automated nature of our platform may make it an attractive target for hacking and potentially vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions.  It is possible that we may not be able to anticipate or to implement effective preventive measures against all security breaches of these types, in which case there would be an increased risk of fraud or identity theft, and we may experience losses on, or delays in the collection of amounts owed on, a fraudulently induced loan. Security breaches could occur from outside our company, and also from the actions of persons inside our company who may have authorized or unauthorized access to our technology systems.  In addition, the software that we have developed to use in our daily operations is highly complex and may contain undetected technical errors that could cause our computer systems to fail. Because each loan that we make involves our proprietary automated underwriting process, any failure of our computer systems involving our automated underwriting process and any technical or other errors contained in the software pertaining to our automated underwriting process could compromise our ability to accurately evaluate potential customers, which would negatively impact our results of operations. Furthermore, any failure of our computer systems could cause an interruption in operations and result in disruptions in, or reductions in the amount of, collections from the loans we make to our customers.. 18. Table of Contents. Additionally, if a hacker were able to access our secure files, he or she might be able to gain access to the personal information of our customers. If we are unable to prevent such activity, we may be subject to significant liability, negative publicity and a material loss of customers, all of which may negatively affect our business.. Our business is subject to the risks of hurricanes, earthquakes, fires, floods and other natural disasters, power outages, telecommunications failures and similar events, and to interruption by man-made problems such as terrorism, cyberattack, and other actions. Comparable risks may also impact the demand for our loans or our customers' ability to repay their loans.. Events beyond our control may damage our ability to accept our customers' applications, underwrite loans, maintain our platform or perform our servicing obligations. Such events include, but are not limited to, hurricanes, earthquakes, fires, floods and other natural disasters, power outages, telecommunications failures and similar events. Despite any precautions we may take, system interruptions and delays could occur if there is a natural disaster, if a third-party provider closes a facility we use without adequate notice for financial or other reasons, or if there are other unanticipated problems at our leased facilities. As we rely heavily on our servers, computer and communications systems and the internet to conduct our business and provide high-quality customer service, such disruptions could harm our ability to run our business and cause lengthy delays which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We currently are not able to switch instantly to our backup center in the event of failure of the main server site. This means that an outage at one facility could result in our system being unavailable for a significant period of time. Man-made problems such as terrorism, cyberattack, and other criminal, tortious or unintentional actions could also give rise to significant disruptions to our operations. Our business interruption insurance may not be sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our service as a result of system failures or other disruptions. Comparable natural and man-made risks may reduce demand for our loans or cause our customers to suffer significant losses and/or incur significant disruption in their respective operations, which may affect their ability to repay their loans.  All of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our current level of interest rate spread may decline in the future.  Our gain on sale of loans in our OnDeck Marketplace program has declined and may decline further in the future. Any material reduction in our interest rate spread or gains on sales of loans could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We earn a majority of our revenues from interest payments on the loans we make to our customers. Financial institutions and other funding sources provide us with the capital to fund these term loans and lines of credit and charge us interest on the capital that we utilize. In the event that the spread between the interest rate at which we lend to our customers and the interest rate at which we borrow from our lenders decreases, our financial results and operating performance will be harmed. The interest rates we charge to our customers and pay to our lenders could each be affected by a variety of factors, including access to capital based on our business performance, the volume of loans we make to our customers, competition and regulatory requirements. These interest rates may also be affected by a change over time in the mix of the types of loans we provide to our customers and sell to our investors, the mix of new and renewal loans and a shift among our channels of customer acquisition. Interest rate changes may adversely affect our business forecasts and expectations and are highly sensitive to many macroeconomic factors beyond our control, such as inflation, recession, the state of the credit markets, changes in market interest rates, global economic disruptions, unemployment and the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. In addition, we generate gains on sales of loans to institutional investors through our OnDeck Marketplace program. The prices we are able to charge for loans we sell are based on a variety of factors, including the terms and credit risk associated with loans, the historical credit performance of the loans we sell, investor demand and other factors. If these variables or others were to change, we might be required to reduce our sales prices on loans, sell fewer loans or both, which could reduce our gains on sales of loans in the OnDeck Marketplace program. Our gain on sale of loans declined from $14.4 million in 2016 to $2.5 million in 2017. Any material reduction in our interest rate spread or gains on sale of loans could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The lending industry is highly regulated. Changes in regulations, including recent changes under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, or in the way regulations are applied to our business could adversely affect our business.. Over the last few years, federal and state regulatory and other policymaking entities have taken an increased interest in marketplace and online lending, including online small business lending.  For example, in July 2015, the U.S. Department of the Treasury issued a public request for information regarding expanding access to credit through online marketplace lending.  Activity in various states has also increased, including in the states of California and New York. In December 2015, the California Department of Business Oversight announced an inquiry into the marketplace lending industry and requested information from fourteen marketplace and online lenders including OnDeck.  The New York Department of Financial Services is expected to conduct its own survey of marketplace and online lending in the first half of 2018.  These initiatives were presented as information gathering projects to assist federal and state officials in better understanding, among other things, the methods, role and impact of online. 19. Table of Contents. and marketplace lending on credit markets. These initiatives either have resulted, or are expected to result, in policy recommendations that could impact our business practices and operations if the recommendations drive new laws or regulations.  For example, if New York were to enact legislation requiring licensure by commercial lenders or imposing certain applicable rate caps or other provisions inconsistent with our current business practices and alternative solutions were not available, we could be required to change our business practices and operations in a manner that adversely impacts our business in New York.  We, or our issuing bank partner, originated approximately 7% of our 2017 total originations in New York.. We expect these and other types of legislative and regulatory activities to continue in the future as marketplace and online lending grow and become the subject of greater public interest.  For example, with the prospect of easing regulatory burdens at the federal level under the current administration, some states have indicated their intention to take more aggressive regulatory action. We cannot predict the outcome of these or other comparable future activities, when or whether they will lead to new laws, regulations or other actions or what they might be. However, the impact and cost of any possible future changes to laws or regulations could be substantial and could also require us to change our business practices and operations in a manner that adversely impacts our business including by increasing compliance costs or requiring us to limit or modify our lending to comply.. Changes in laws or regulations, including recent changes under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (and any related Treasury regulations, rules or interpretations, if and when issued), or the regulatory application or judicial interpretation of the laws and regulations applicable to us could adversely affect our ability to operate in the manner in which we currently conduct business or make it more difficult or costly for us to originate or otherwise make additional loans, or for us to collect payments on loans by subjecting us to additional licensing, registration and other regulatory requirements or restrictions in the future or otherwise. For example, if our loans were determined for any reason not to be commercial loans or interest rate limitations were imposed on commercial loans, or if the validity of our relationship with an issuing bank partner were successfully challenged under a \"true lender\" theory or by similar arguments as made in Madden v. Midland Funding, LLC, we would be subject to many additional requirements, and our fees and interest arrangements could be challenged by regulators, attorneys general or our customers. A material failure to comply with any such laws or regulations could result in regulatory actions, lawsuits and damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition and our ability to originate and service loans and perform our obligations to investors and other constituents.. A proceeding relating to one or more allegations or findings of our violation of such laws could result in modifications in our methods of doing business that could impair our ability to collect payments on our loans or to acquire additional loans or could result in the requirement that we pay damages and/or cancel the balance or other amounts owing under the loans associated with such violation. We cannot assure that such claims will not be asserted against us in the future. To the extent it is determined that the loans we make to our customers were not originated in accordance with all applicable laws, we would be obligated to repurchase from the entity holding the applicable loan any such loan that fails to comply with legal requirements. We may not have adequate resources to make such repurchases.. If the choice of law provisions in our loan agreements are found to be unenforceable, we may be found to be in violation of state interest rate limit laws.. Although the federal government does not currently regulate the maximum interest rates that may be charged on commercial loan transactions, many states have enacted interest rate limit laws specifying the maximum legal interest rate at which loans can be made in their state. We apply Virginia law to the underlying agreement for loans that we originate because our loans are underwritten and entered into in the state of Virginia, where our underwriting, risk, servicing, operations and collections teams function.. Virginia law does not limit interest rates on commercial loans of $5,000 or more. Assuming a court were to recognize this choice of law provision, Virginia law would be applied to a dispute between the customer and us regardless of where the customer is located. We intend for Virginia law to control over any state interest rate limit laws that would otherwise be applicable to these loans.  We are not aware of any broad-based legal challenges to date to the applicability of Virginia law to the loans we originate or the loans of other companies. However, many laws to which we are subject were adopted prior to the advent of the internet and related technologies and, as a result, do not expressly contemplate or address the unique issues of the applicability of state laws to online transactions, including in our case, the origination of loans. In addition, many laws that do reference the internet are being interpreted by the courts, but their applicability and scope remain uncertain. As a result, we cannot predict whether a court may seek to apply a different state's law to our loans or to otherwise invalidate the applicability of Virginia law to our loans. If the applicability of Virginia law to these loans were challenged, and these loans were found to be governed by the laws of another state, and such other state has an interest rate limit law that prohibits the interest rate in effect with respect to such loans, the obligations of our customers to pay all or a portion of the interest and principal on these loans could be found unenforceable. A judgment that the choice of law provisions in our loan agreements is unenforceable also could result in costly and time-consuming litigation, penalties, damage to our reputation, trigger repurchase obligations, negatively impact the terms of our future loans and. 20. Table of Contents. harm our operating results. Likewise, a judgment that the choice of law provision in other commercial loan agreements is unenforceable could result in challenges to our choice of law provision and that could result in costly and time-consuming litigation.  In February 2017, in the Madden v. Midland case described in more detail immediately below, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York held that applying the Delaware choice of law specified in the loan contract, which would have resulted in the application of Delaware law that has no limit on allowable interest rates, would violate a fundamental public policy of New York's criminal usury statute.  The court then concluded that the New York usury law, and not Delaware law, applied to the loan.  That decision, or possible future decisions that similarly invalidate choice of law provisions in loan agreements, could cause us to change the way we do business in particular states and to incur substantial additional expense to comply with the laws of various states, including either licensing as a lender in the various states, altering the terms of our loans or requiring us to place more loans through our issuing bank partner.. As a result of court decisions in Madden v. Midland, in some circumstances, federal preemption and application of an out-of-state choice of law provision will not, or may not, be available for the benefit of certain purchasers or non-bank issuers of loans to defend against a state law claim of usury.. In May 2015, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit held in Madden v. Midland Funding, LLC that federal law did not preempt a state's interest rate limitations when applied to a non-bank debt buyer of a consumer credit card loan seeking to collect interest at the rate originally contracted for by a national bank.  The Second Circuit did not decide, and remanded to the U. S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, the question of whether New York law (the law of the state where the debtor lived) or Delaware law (the governing law stated in the loan agreement) governed the terms of the loan agreement.  Although the Second Circuit case was appealed, in June 2016 the United States Supreme Court declined to review the case, which had the effect of leaving the decision of the Second Circuit intact.. In February 2017, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York on remand held that applying the Delaware choice of law specified in the loan contract, which would have resulted in the application of Delaware law that has no limit on allowable interest rates, would violate a fundamental public policy of New York's criminal usury statute.  The court then concluded that the New York usury law, and not Delaware law, applied to the consumer loan at issue in the case.. The Second Circuit's holding in the Madden case is binding on federal courts in the states included in the Second Circuit - New York, Connecticut and Vermont.  Although the Madden case has received widespread criticism, in the event of an extension of the Second Circuit's decision, either within or outside the states in the Second Circuit, could challenge the federal preemption of state laws setting interest rate limitations for loans made by issuing bank partners in those states.  Additionally if the decision by the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York applying the law of the state of the borrower, and not the governing law stated in the applicable loan agreement were applied by a state or federal court with proper jurisdiction to commercial loan transactions, either within or outside the State of New York, then those loans originated by OnDeck (or a portion of the principal of and interest on such loans) might be unenforceable and penalties could apply depending on whether the terms of such loans were contrary to the law of the state of the borrower.  There could be other related liabilities and reputational harm if OnDeck or a subsequent transferee of the loan were to seek to collect on those amounts.  In addition, the U.S. District Court in the Madden case certified a class action to pursue other remedies against the defendants in that case.  It is possible that other out of state lenders making loans to borrowers in New York, including us, may be subject to similar claims.. The U.S. District Court's decision in the Madden case could limit the interest rates we can charge on our loans in New York and possibly in the other states that have criminal usury caps if the principles in Madden were extended to the federal court districts in those states, namely Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Michigan, New Jersey Ohio and Pennsylvania, if the terms of OnDeck loans were contrary to the laws in those states.  In those circumstances, we may need to change the interest rates and/or amount of loans we make in those states or otherwise change the way we do business in those states, we may be subject to litigation and we may suffer an adverse impact on our business.. In February 2018, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Protecting Consumers' Access to Credit Act of 2017 (H.R. 3299).  If enacted in its current form, this legislation would effectively overturn the Madden decision and codify the contractual doctrine of \"valid when made\" which, as applied to lending agreements, provides that a loan that is valid at inception cannot become usurious upon subsequent sale or transfer to another person.  There can be no assurance that the legislation will be voted upon or passed by the U.S. Senate or signed into law by the President in its current form or at all.. If our relationship with our issuing bank partner was to end or the legal structure supporting such relationship was to be successfully challenged, then we may have to comply with additional laws, regulations, and restrictions, and certain states may require us to obtain a lending license.. In states that do not require a license to make commercial loans, we make term loans and extend lines of credit directly to customers pursuant to Virginia law, which is the governing law we require in the underlying loan agreements with our customers.. 21. Table of Contents. However, some states and jurisdictions, including Alaska, California, Kentucky, Maryland, Minnesota, Nebraska, Nevada, North Dakota, South Dakota, Vermont, Washington, D.C., and West Virginia, require a license to make certain commercial loans and may not honor a Virginia choice of law. They assert either that their own licensing laws and requirements should generally apply to commercial loans made by nonbanks to residents of their state or apply to commercial loans made by nonbanks to residents of their state of certain principal amounts or with certain interest rates or other terms. In such states and jurisdictions and in some other circumstances, term loans and lines of credit are made by our issuing bank partner that are not subject to state licensing and may be sold to us. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, loans made by our issuing bank partner constituted 22.6%, 22.2%, and 15.3%, respectively, of our total loan originations. These loans are not governed by Virginia law, but rather the laws of the issuing bank partner's home state, which is Utah law in the case of our issuing bank partner, Celtic Bank. The remainder of our term loans and lines of credit provide that they are to be governed by Virginia law. Our issuing bank partner currently originates all of our loans in California, Nevada, North Dakota and South Dakota as well as some loans in other states and jurisdictions in addition to those listed above. Although such states and jurisdictions may have licensing requirements and/or interest rate caps that purport to apply to some or all commercial loans, all such licensing requirements and/or caps that would otherwise be applicable are federally preempted when these loans are originated by our federally chartered or state chartered issuing bank partners. Loans originated by our issuing bank partner are generally priced the same as loans originated by us under Virginia law. While the other U.S. states where we originate loans currently honor our Virginia choice of law, future legal changes could result in any one or more of those states no longer honoring our Virginia choice of law. In that case, we could potentially address the legal change in a manner similar to how we approach the other states and jurisdictions that currently require licensing and may not honor a Virginia choice of law, or we could consider other approaches, including licensing.. If we were otherwise not able to work with an issuing bank partner or if we were to seek to make loans directly in those states referenced above, we would have to attempt to comply with the laws of these states in other ways, including through obtaining lending licenses. Compliance with the laws of such states could be costly, and if we are unable to obtain such licenses, our loan volume could substantially decrease and our revenues, growth and profitability would be harmed. In addition, if our activities under the current arrangement with our issuing bank partner were deemed to constitute lending within any such jurisdiction that would require a lending license, we could be found to have engaged in impermissible lending within such jurisdictions. As a result, we could be subjected to fines and other penalties, all or a portion of the principal and interest charged on the applicable loans could be found to be unenforceable and, to the extent it is determined that such loans were not originated in accordance with all applicable laws, we could be obligated to repurchase any loans from our debt facilities and OnDeck Marketplace participants that failed to comply with such legal requirements. Any finding that we engaged in unlicensed lending in states for which a license was required could lead to litigation, fines and harm our reputation and negatively impact our operating results.. As a result of becoming a public company in December 2014, we are obligated to maintain internal controls over financial reporting and our management is required to report annually on the effectiveness of these internal controls. Any determination that these internal controls are not effective may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our common stock.. As a public company, we are required to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017 and as of subsequent year ends. This assessment needs to include disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting.. In the past we have identified certain control deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, including a significant deficiency. A control deficiency is considered a significant deficiency if it represents a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that is less severe than a material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention by those responsible for oversight of a company's financial reporting. In contrast, a material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.. We cannot assure you that we will not in the future have significant deficiencies or material weaknesses. Because we are an \"emerging growth company\" under the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm has not evaluated any of the measures we have taken to address any deficiencies.. Because our business has grown and we are a public company, we are continuing in our efforts to transition to a more developed internal control environment that incorporates increased automation.  The actions we have taken and plan to take are subject to ongoing senior management review and audit committee oversight.. We also may not be able to complete our evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion. During the evaluation and testing process, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that we are unable to remediate before the end of the same fiscal year in which the material weakness is identified or if we are otherwise unable to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or when applicable, if our auditors. 22. Table of Contents. are unable to attest to management's report on the effectiveness of our internal controls, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would cause the price of our common stock to decline.. We will be required to disclose material changes made in our internal controls and procedures on a quarterly basis. However, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, until the first audit following the date we are no longer an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the Jump Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, which will be no later than the audit of our financial statements as of and for the year ending December 31, 2019.   To comply with the requirements of being a public company, we may need to undertake various actions, such as implementing new internal controls and procedures and hiring accounting or internal audit staff.. We require substantial capital and in the future may require additional capital to pursue our business objectives and profitability strategy and, in particular, our ability to fund loan originations. If adequate capital is not available to us, our business, operating results and financial condition may be harmed.. Since our founding, we have raised substantial equity and debt financing to support the growth of our business. Because we intend to continue to make investments to support the growth of our business, we require additional capital to pursue our business objectives and growth strategy and respond to business opportunities, challenges or unforeseen circumstances, including lending to our customers, increasing our marketing expenditures to attract new customers and improving our brand awareness, developing and offering loans with new characteristics, introducing new loans or services, further expanding internationally in existing or new countries or further improving existing offerings and services, enhancing our operating infrastructure and potentially acquiring complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, on a regular basis we need, or we may need, to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. However, additional funds may not be available when we need them, in amounts we need, on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. Volatility in the credit markets in general or in the market for small business or internet loans in particular may also have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain debt financing. Furthermore, the cost of our borrowing may increase due to market volatility, changes in the risk premiums required by lenders or if traditional sources of debt capital are unavailable. Volatility or depressed valuations or trading prices in the equity markets may similarly adversely affect our ability to obtain equity financing. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock.. In particular, we may require additional access to capital to support our lending operations. In order to fund loans that cannot be financed through our debt facilities, we have used, and expect to continue to use, our available cash on hand.  Furthermore, for all loans that are eligible for funding under the terms of our debt or securitization facilities, these facilities have advance rate limitations on the maximum percentage of collateral that may be financed, which requires us to fund the excess portion through our available cash in hand.. We expect that we will continue to use our available cash to fund a portion of our loans and support our growth initiatives and general operations. To supplement our cash resources, we may seek to expand or modify our existing debt facilities to provide additional capacity as well as expand loan eligibility; add new debt facilities or replace or renew debt facilities scheduled to expire; enter into additional securitizations; increase the size of, or replace, our corporate debt facility; expand the volume of loans that we sell through OnDeck Marketplace and other potential options. If we are unable to adequately maintain our cash resources, we may delay non-essential capital expenditures; implement cost cutting procedures; delay or reduce future hiring; or reduce our rate of future originations compared to current level. There can be no assurance that we can obtain sufficient sources of external capital to support the growth of our business. Delays in doing so or failure to do so may require us to reduce loan originations or reduce our operations, which would harm our ability to pursue our business objectives as well as harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our strategy to expand the availability of our platform to other lenders through OnDeck-as-a-Service relies on an unproven business model in an emerging industry, which makes it difficult to evaluate the prospects for that strategy and the risks and challenges we may encounter.. Part of our growth strategy is to expand the availability of our platform to other lenders through OnDeck-as-a-Service.  This strategy relies on an unproven business model in an emerging industry.  As a result, the revenue and income potential of On-Deck-as-a-Service and the related market opportunity are uncertain. In order to pursue this strategy we will be required to make significant investments over time, attract new customers and retain existing ones. Future demand and market acceptance of OnDeck-as-a-Service are unpredictable. The sales cycle to attract a lender to our platform is long and complex, and once a lender is attracted, the integration and ramp up can also be long, complex and expensive.  As a result, it is difficult to evaluate the prospects for this strategy or the timing or degree of its potential success.  It is also difficult to assess the risks and challenges we may encounter in. 23. Table of Contents. pursuing this strategy.  Many of these risks and challenges are in categories similar to those we face in our online small business lending activities as described in this Item 1A. - Risk Factors and elsewhere in this report.  Others may be in addition to, or greater than, those we face in our online small business lending activities. Additional or greater risks and challenges to expanding the availability of our platform to other lenders may include:. • lack of acceptance of On-Deck-as-a-Service by other lenders;. • reluctance of other lenders to share their customer data with us, or impacts of data and security breaches if they do;. • unwillingness of other lenders to use our platform because we are doing business with their competitors, or for other reasons;. • the possible preference of other lenders to build and use their own platforms, or platforms offered by existing or new competitors of ours, for online small business lending;. • our ability to charge fees for services commensurate with the total cost of providing those services;. • the amount of time it may take us to integrate new lenders;. • our ability to fund investment to expand and customize our platform in advance of earning fee revenue related to that investment;. • our ability to provide customized solutions that meet the needs of lenders;. • our ability to meet the performance criteria that customers or prospective customers require;. • the inability to retain one or more customers and the impact of that customer loss on other existing or prospective customers;. • our ability to scale our platform to make it economically viable; and. • our ability to compete effectively with third parties seeking to provide similar services.. We may not be able to successfully address these risks and challenges, which could cause our strategy to fail, harm our business and cause our operating results to suffer.  In addition, OnDeck-as-a-Service, has placed, and if we are able to expand it will continue to place, significant demands on our management and our operational and financial resources.  If we cannot effectively manage the growth of this opportunity, our financial results will suffer.. We may evaluate, and potentially consummate, acquisitions, which could require significant management attention, disrupt our business, and adversely affect our financial results.. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to grow our business. In some circumstances, we may determine to do so through the acquisition of complementary assets, businesses and technologies rather than through internal development. The identification of suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming, and costly, and we may not be able to successfully complete identified acquisitions. We also have never made these types of acquisitions before and therefore lack experience in integrating such acquisitions, new technology and personnel. The risks we face in connection with acquisitions include:. • diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to addressing acquisition integration challenges;. • coordination of technology, product development and sales and marketing functions;. • transition of the acquired company's customers to our platform;. • retention of employees from the acquired company;. • cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization;. • integration of the acquired company's accounting, management information, human resources and other administrative systems;. • the need to implement or improve controls, procedures and policies at a business that prior to the acquisition may have lacked effective controls, procedures and policies;. • potential write-offs of loans or intangibles or other assets acquired in such transactions that may have an adverse effect our operating results in a given period;. • liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including patent and trademark infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities; and. • litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders or other third parties.. Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our future acquisitions and investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or investments, cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities. 24. Table of Contents. and harm our business generally. Future acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses or the write-off of goodwill, any of which could harm our financial condition. Also, the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions may not materialize.. We face increasing competition and, if we do not compete effectively, our operating results could be harmed.. We compete with other companies that lend to small businesses. These companies include traditional banks, merchant cash advance providers and newer, technology-enabled lenders. In addition, other technology companies that primarily lend to individual consumers have been focusing, or may in the future focus, their efforts on lending to small businesses.  Competition has intensified in small business lending and this trend may continue.. In some cases, our competitors focus their marketing on our industry sectors and seek to increase their lending and other financial relationships with specific industries such as restaurants. In other cases, some competitors may offer a broader range of financial products to our clients, and some competitors may offer a specialized set of specific products or services. Many of these competitors have significantly more resources and greater brand recognition than we do and may be able to attract customers more effectively than we do.  In addition, as more and more competitors market to the same small businesses, it may be more difficult and expensive for us to build our brand and achieve or maintain favorable customer response rates.. When new competitors seek to enter one of our markets, or when existing market participants seek to increase their market share, they sometimes undercut the pricing and/or credit terms prevalent in that market, which could adversely affect our market share and/or ability to exploit new market opportunities. Our pricing and credit terms could deteriorate if we act to meet these competitive challenges. Further, to the extent that the commissions we pay to our strategic partners and funding advisors are not competitive with those paid by our competitors, whether on new loans or renewals or both, these partners and advisors may choose to direct their business elsewhere. Those competitive pressures could also result in us reducing the origination fees or interest we charge to our customers.  In addition, increased competition for customer response could require us to incur higher customer acquisition costs and make it more difficult for us to grow our loan originations in both unit and volume for both new as well as repeat customers.  All of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and future growth.. Our success and future growth depend in part on our successful marketing efforts and increased brand awareness. As part of our cost rationalization program, we have reduced our investment in our brand. Failure to effectively use our brand to convert sales may negatively affect our growth and our financial performance.. We believe that an important component of our growth will be continued market penetration through marketing directly to small businesses. To achieve this growth, we anticipate relying on marketing and advertising while controlling customer acquisition cost. As part of our 2017 cost rationalization program, we reduced our investment in brand advertising while seeking to gain marketing efficiencies.  While our goal remains to increase the strength, recognition and trust in the OnDeck brand, drive more unique visitors to submit loan applications on our website, and ultimately increase the number of loans made to our customers, our decision to reduce spending in this area and seek greater efficiencies could adversely affect our growth. We incurred expenses of $52.8 million and $67.0 million on sales and marketing in the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.. Our business model relies on our ability to continue to scale and to decrease incremental customer acquisition costs as we grow. If we are unable to recover our marketing costs through increases in the number of loans we make, or if we maintain recent levels of brand investment or continue to reduce or discontinue our broad marketing campaigns, it could have a material adverse effect on our growth, results of operations and financial condition.. To the extent that Funding Advisor Program partners, other third parties or internal sales representatives mislead loan applicants or engage or previously engaged in disreputable behavior, our reputation may be harmed and we may face liability.. We rely on third-party independent advisors, including commercial loan brokers, which we call Funding Advisor Program partners, or FAPs, for a significant portion of the customers to whom we issue loans. In 2017, 2016 and 2015, loans issued to customers whose applications were submitted to us via the FAP channel constituted 26.9%, 27.3% and 28% of our total loan originations, respectively. As a consequence of their status as independent contractors, we have less control of FAP sales activities versus our internal sales representatives.  In early 2015, we took a number of steps to enhance our then existing efforts to mitigate the risks associated with FAP sales, as discussed below.. Because FAPs earn fees on a commission basis, FAPs may have an incentive to mislead loan applicants, facilitate the submission by loan applicants of false application data or engage in other disreputable behavior so as to earn additional commissions.. 25. Table of Contents. In addition, it is possible that some FAPs may attempt to charge additional fees despite our contractual prohibitions. We also rely on our direct sales agents for customer acquisition in our direct marketing channel, who may also be motivated to engage in disreputable behavior to increase our customer base. If FAPs or our direct sales agents mislead our customers or engage in any other disreputable behavior, our customers are less likely to be satisfied with their experience and to become repeat customers, and we may be subject to costly and time-consuming disputes, each of which could harm our reputation and operating performance. Negative publicity relating to FAPs could impair our ability to continue to increase our revenue and our business could otherwise be materially and negatively impacted.. In early 2015, we significantly enhanced the nature and scope of the due diligence conducted on both prospective and existing FAPs (we applied the enhanced due diligence retroactively to all FAPs with which we had arrangements as well).  We update such due diligence on all existing FAPs on an annual basis and continue to conduct enhanced due diligence on new prospective FAPs.  We also implemented certain enhanced contractual provisions and compliance-related measures related to our Funding Advisor Program, including FAP training, issuing a FAP code of conduct and conducting welcome calls or distributing welcome surveys to customers (recently modified to customer surveys) who worked with FAPs to survey the FAPs' practices (which, if in violation of our code or contract, could lead to termination). While these measures were intended to improve certain aspects and reduce the risks of how we work with funding advisors and how they work with our customers, we cannot assure that these measures will work or continue to work as intended, that other compliance-related concerns will not emerge in the future, that the funding advisors will comply with these measures, and that these measures will not negatively impact our business from this channel, including our financial performance, or have other unintended or negative impacts on our business beyond the FAP channel, such as with existing or potential strategic partners, customers or funding sources.. In addition, we do business with third parties who are not part of our Funding Advisor Program, including third parties who may refer potential customers to us or to whom we may refer potential customers for their businesses.  We are exposed to the risks of potential misleading or disreputable behavior from these third parties as well as from our FAPs.. We also face similar risks based on the behavior of our internal sales representatives.  We provide our internal sales representatives with sales scripts that have been reviewed by our compliance team.  Sales representatives receive rigorous training, including in-person training conducted by our compliance team on avoiding unfair, abusive, and deceptive practices.  In addition, internal sales representative calls are recorded and monitored for purposes of compliance and quality assurance, and there is a quality assurance team dedicated to these efforts, which efforts have continued to be refined and enhanced. Despite these measures, we cannot assure that that they will work as intended or that all of our internal sales representatives will comply with our procedures. Failure of our internal sales representatives to do so would expose us to the same, or worse, consequences than those relating to the FAP channel because our direct sales channel is larger than our FAP channel and we have more direct control over our internal sales representatives than we have over our FAP channel.. We pay commissions to our strategic partners, other third parties and FAPs upfront and generally do not recover them in the event the related loan or line of credit is eventually charged off.. We pay commissions to strategic partners and FAPs on the term loans and lines of credit we originate through these channels. We pay these commissions at the time the term loan is originated or line of credit is opened. However, we generally do not require that this commission be repaid to us in the event of a default on a term loan or line of credit. While we generally discontinue working with strategic partners and FAPs that refer customers to us that ultimately have unacceptably high levels of defaults, to the extent that our strategic partners and FAPs are not at risk of forfeiting their commissions in the event of defaults, they may, to an extent, be indifferent to the riskiness of the potential customers that they refer to us.. We rely on data centers to deliver our services. Any disruption of service at these data centers could interrupt or delay our ability to deliver our service to our customers.. We currently serve our customers from two third-party data center hosting facilities in New Jersey and Colorado, as well as \"cloud\" data centers which delivers service over the internet. The continuous availability of our service depends on the operations of these facilities and cloud services, on a variety of network service providers, on third-party vendors and on data center operations staff. In addition, we depend on the ability of our third-party facility and cloud service providers to protect the facilities against damage or interruption from natural disasters, power or telecommunications failures, criminal acts and similar events. If there are any lapses of service or damage to these facilities and cloud services, we could experience lengthy interruptions in our service as well as delays and additional expenses in arranging new facilities and services. Even with current and planned disaster recovery arrangements, our business could be harmed.. We designed our system infrastructure and procure and own or lease the computer hardware used for our services. Design and mechanical errors, failure to follow operations protocols and procedures could cause our systems to fail, resulting in interruptions. 26. Table of Contents. in our platform. Any such interruptions or delays, whether as a result of third-party error, our own error, natural disasters or security breaches, whether accidental or willful, could harm our relationships with customers and cause our revenue to decrease and/or our expenses to increase. Also, in the event of damage or interruption, our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that we may incur. These factors in turn could further reduce our revenue and subject us to liability, which could materially adversely affect our business.. To date, we have derived our revenue from a limited number of financing options and markets. Our efforts to expand our market reach and financing options may not succeed and may reduce our revenue growth.. We offer term loans and lines of credit to our customers in the United States and Canada and term loans to our customers in Australia. Many of our competitors offer a more diverse set of financing options to small businesses and in additional international markets. While we intend to eventually broaden the scope of financing options that we offer to our customers, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in such efforts. Failure to broaden the scope of financing options we offer to potential customers may inhibit the growth of repeat business from our customers and harm our operating results. There also can be no guarantee that we will be successful with respect to our current efforts in Canada and Australia, as well as any further expansion beyond the United States, Canada and Australia, if we decide to attempt such expansion at all, which may also inhibit the growth of our business.. We may not have adequate funding capacity in the event that an unforeseen number of customers to whom we have extended a line of credit decide to draw their lines at the same time.. Our current capacity to fund our customers' lines of credit through existing debt facilities is limited. Accordingly, we maintain cash available to fund our customers' lines of credit based on the amount that we foresee these customers drawing down. For example, if we make available a line of credit for $15,000 to a small business, we may only reserve a portion of this amount at any given time for immediate draw down. We base the amount that we reserve on our analysis of aggregate portfolio demand and the historical activity of customers using these lines of credit. However, if we inaccurately predict the number of customers that draw down on their lines of credit at a certain time, or if these customers draw down in greater amounts than we forecast, we may not have enough funds available to lend to them. Failure to provide funds drawn down by our customers on their lines of credit may lead to negative customer experience, damage our reputation and inhibit our growth.. We will incur increased costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, which could harm our results of operations and our ability to attract and retain qualified executives and board members.. As a public company we incur significant legal, accounting, and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company and these expenses will increase after we cease to be an \"emerging growth company.\" In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, impose various requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, we expect these rules and regulations and future regulations will continue to increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time consuming and costly. For example, we expect these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or to incur substantial costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or our board committees or as executive officers.. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting annually and the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures quarterly. In particular, we are required to perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm potentially to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404. As long as we remain an \"emerging growth company\" we may elect to avail ourselves of the exemption from the requirement that our independent registered public accounting firm attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404. However, we may no longer avail ourselves of this exemption when we cease to be an \"emerging growth company\" and, when our independent registered public accounting firm is required to undertake an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, the cost of our compliance with Section 404 will correspondingly increase. Our compliance with applicable provisions of Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management time on compliance-related issues as we implement additional corporate governance practices and comply with reporting requirements. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 applicable to us in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public. 27. Table of Contents. accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources.. Furthermore, investor perceptions of our company may suffer if deficiencies are found, and this could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. Irrespective of compliance with Section 404, any failure of our internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our stated operating results and harm our reputation. We expect to have in place accounting, internal audit and other management systems and resources that will allow us to maintain compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act at the end of any phase-in periods permitted by the NYSE, the SEC and the JOBS Act. If we are unable to implement these changes effectively or efficiently, it could harm our operations, financial reporting or financial results and could result in an adverse opinion on internal control from our independent registered public accounting firm.. Our agreements with our lenders contain a number of early payment triggers and covenants. A breach of such triggers or covenants or other terms of such agreements could result in an early amortization, default, and/or acceleration of the related funding facilities which could materially impact our operations.. Primary funding sources available to support the maintenance and growth of our business include, among others, an asset-backed securitization facility, other asset-backed revolving debt facilities and corporate debt. Our liquidity would be materially adversely affected by our inability to comply with various covenants and other specified requirements set forth in our agreements with our lenders which could result in the early amortization, default and/or acceleration of our existing facilities. Such covenants and requirements include financial covenants, portfolio performance covenants and other events. For a description of these covenants, requirements and events, see Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources.. During an early amortization period or occurrence of an event of default, principal collections from the loans in our asset-backed facilities would be applied to repay principal under such facilities rather than being available on a revolving basis to fund purchases of newly originated loans. During the occurrence of an event of default under any of our facilities, the applicable lenders could accelerate the related debt and such lenders' commitments to extend further credit under the related facility would terminate. Our asset-backed securitization trust would not be able to issue future series out of such securitization if an early amortization event occurred. If we were unable to repay the amounts due and payable under such facilities, the applicable lenders could seek remedies, including against the collateral pledged under such facilities. An acceleration of the debt under one facility could also lead to a default under other facilities due to cross-acceleration provisions.. An early amortization event or event of default would negatively impact our liquidity, including our ability to originate new loans, and require us to rely on alternative funding sources, which might increase our funding costs or which might not be available when needed. If we were unable to arrange new or alternative methods of financing on favorable terms, we might have to curtail the origination of loans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our obligations under our facilities.. We act as servicer with respect to our facilities. If we default in our servicing obligations, an early amortization event or default could occur with respect to the applicable facility and we could be replaced as servicer.. In connection with the sale of our loans to our subsidiaries and through OnDeck Marketplace, we make representations and warranties concerning the loans we sell. If those representations and warranties are not correct, we could be required to repurchase the loans. In addition, we may, from time to time, voluntarily purchase loans previously sold to third parties. Any significant required repurchases and/or voluntary purchases could have an adverse effect on our ability to operate and fund our business.. In our asset-backed securitization facility and our other asset-backed revolving debt facilities, we transfer loans to our subsidiaries and make numerous representations and warranties concerning the loans we transfer, including representations and warranties that the loans meet the eligibility respective requirements of such facilities. We also make representations and warranties in connection with the loans we sell through OnDeck Marketplace. If the representations and warranties that the loans meet the eligibility requirements are incorrect, we may be required to repurchase the loans not satisfying the eligibility requirements. Failure to repurchase any loans when required would constitute an event of default under the securitization and other asset-backed facilities and may constitute a termination event under the applicable OnDeck Marketplace agreement. At the request of a loan purchaser, we may voluntarily decide to purchase loans sold to third parties. There is no assurance, however, that we would have adequate resources to make such purchases or, if we did make the purchases, that such event might not have a material adverse effect on our business. Between June 2016 and December 2017, we voluntarily purchased $20.5 million of loans for strategic business. 28. Table of Contents. reasons and we may, from time to time, do so again in the future to the extent that we have adequate resources available. The purchase of loans in large quantities, both on a mandatory or voluntary basis, may have an adverse impact on our liquidity and our ability to originate loans, especially if we are unable to refinance such loans and elect to rely on available cash to purchase them.. If the information provided by customers to us is incorrect or fraudulent, we may misjudge a customer's qualification to receive a loan and our operating results may be harmed.. Our lending decisions are based partly on information provided to us by loan applicants. To the extent that these applicants provide information to us in a manner that we are unable to verify, the OnDeck Score may not accurately reflect the associated risk. In addition, data provided by third-party sources is a significant component of the OnDeck Score and this data may contain inaccuracies. Inaccurate analysis of credit data that could result from false loan application information could harm our reputation, business and operating results.. In addition, we use identity and fraud checks analyzing data provided by external databases to authenticate each customer's identity. From time to time in the past, these checks have failed and there is a risk that these checks could also fail in the future, and fraud may occur. We may not be able to recoup funds underlying loans made in connection with inaccurate statements, omissions of fact or fraud, in which case our revenue, operating results and profitability will be harmed. Fraudulent activity or significant increases in fraudulent activity could also lead to regulatory intervention, negatively impact our operating results, brand and reputation, and require us to take steps to reduce fraud risk, which could increase our costs.. Financial regulatory reform relating to asset-backed securities has not been fully implemented and there is uncertainty regarding its continuation, both of which could have a significant impact on our ability to access the asset-backed market.. We rely upon asset-backed financing for a significant portion of our funds with which to carry on our business. Asset-backed securities and the securitization markets were heavily affected by the Dodd-Frank Act, which was signed into law in 2010, and have also been a focus of increased regulation by the SEC. However, some of the regulations to be implemented under the Dodd-Frank Act have not yet been finalized and other asset-backed regulations that have been adopted by the SEC have delayed effective dates. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act mandates the implementation of rules requiring securitizers or originators to retain an economic interest in a portion of the credit risk for any asset that they securitize or originate. In October 2014, the SEC adopted final rules in relation to such risk retention, but such rules did not become effective with respect to our transactions until late in 2016. In addition, the SEC previously proposed separate rules which would affect the disclosure requirements for registered as well as unregistered issuances of asset-backed securities. The SEC has recently adopted final rules which affect the disclosure requirements for registered issuances of asset-backed securities backed by residential mortgages, commercial mortgages, auto loans, auto leases and debt securities. However, final rules that would affect the disclosure requirements for registered issuances of asset-backed securities backed by other types of collateral or for unregistered issuances of asset-backed securities have not been adopted. Additionally, there is general uncertainty regarding what changes, if any, may be implemented with regards to the Dodd-Frank Act.  Any new rules or changes to the Dodd-Frank Act (or the current rules thereunder), if implemented could adversely affect our ability to access the asset-backed market or our cost of accessing that market.. Customer complaints or negative publicity could result in a decline in our customer growth and our business could suffer.. Our reputation is very important to attracting new customers to our platform as well as securing repeat lending to existing customers. There can be no assurance that we will continue to maintain a good relationship with our customers or avoid negative publicity. Any damage to our reputation, whether arising from our conduct of business, negative publicity, regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions, matters affecting our financial reporting or compliance with SEC and New York Stock Exchange listing requirements, security breaches or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Many of our strategic partnerships are nonexclusive and subject to termination options that, if terminated, could harm the growth of our customer base and negatively affect our financial performance. Additionally, these partners are concentrated and the departure of a significant partner could have a negative impact on our operating results.  Lastly, any termination of agreements governing our provision of OnDeck-as-a-Service could have a negative impact on our ability to grow this part of our business and negatively impact our operating results.. We rely on strategic partners for referrals of an increasing portion of our customers and our growth depends in part on the growth of these referrals. Over the last five years, loans issued to customers referred to us by our strategic partners have grown to become an increasingly significant percentage of our total loan originations.. 29. Table of Contents. Many of our strategic partnerships do not contain exclusivity provisions that would prevent such partners from providing leads to competing companies. In addition, the agreements governing these partnerships contain termination provisions that, if exercised, would terminate our relationship with these partners. These agreements also contain no requirement that a partner refer us any minimum number of leads. There can be no assurance that these partners will not terminate our relationship with them or continue referring business to us in the future, and a termination of the relationship or reduction in leads referred to us would have a negative impact on our revenue and operating results.. In addition, a small number of strategic partners refer to us a significant portion of the loans made within this channel. In 2017, 2016 and 2015, loans issued to customers referred to us by our top four strategic partners constituted 11.1%, 12.0% and 11.5% of our total loan originations, respectively. In the event that one or more of these significant strategic partners terminated our relationship or reduced the number of leads provided to us, our business would be harmed.. Additionally, we have continued exploring ways to expand the availability of OnDeck-as-a-Service to appropriate partners that could use our platform to make loan decisions.  The agreements governing these services contain termination provisions that, if exercised, would terminate our agreement with these partners.  A termination of any such agreements may affect our reputation as we seek to expand OnDeck-as-a-Service and/or have a negative impact on our revenue and operating results.. If we are unable to sell charged-off loans to third-parties and/or the premiums paid by such third-parties for charged-off loans were to decline, our operating results may be negatively affected.. If a loan is charged-off, historically we had generally sold the loan to third-parties in exchange for only a small fraction of the remaining amount payable to us. The agreements governing such arrangements with third-parties may be subject to termination and/or renegotiation.  Any such termination and/or renegotiation of agreements already in place could result in our inability to sell charged-off loans and/or result in lower recoveries than we have realized historically from selling charged-off loans which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.. Expanding our operations internationally could subject us to new challenges and risks.. We currently operate in the United States, Canada and Australia and may seek to expand our business further internationally. Additional international expansion, whether in our existing or new international markets, will require additional resources and controls. Such expansion could subject our business to substantial risks including:. • adjusting our proprietary loan platform, and the OnDeck Score, to account for the country-specific differences in information available on potential small business borrowers;. • conformity with applicable business customs, including translation into foreign languages and associated expenses;. • changes to the way we do business as compared with our current operations;. • the need to support and integrate with local third-party service providers;. • competition with service providers that have greater experience in the local markets than we do or that have pre-existing relationships with potential borrowers and investors in those markets;. • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations in an environment of diverse culture, laws and customs, and the increased travel, infrastructure and legal and compliance costs associated with international operations;. • difficulties in securing financing in international markets in local currencies;. • compliance with multiple, potentially conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including banking, securities, employment, tax, privacy and data protection laws and regulations;. • compliance with U.S. and foreign anti-bribery laws, such as  the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and comparable laws in Canada, Australia and other non-U.S. markets into which we might expand in the future;. • difficulties in collecting payments in foreign currencies and associated foreign currency exposure;. • restrictions on repatriation of earnings;. • compliance with potentially conflicting and changing laws of taxing jurisdictions where we conduct business and applicable U.S. tax laws as they relate to international operations, the complexity and adverse consequences of such tax laws and potentially adverse tax consequences due to changes in such tax laws; and. • regional economic and political conditions.. 30. Table of Contents. As a result of these risks, any potential future international expansion efforts that we may undertake may not be successful.. Our business depends on our ability to collect payment on and service the loans we make to our customers.. We rely on unaffiliated banks for the Automated Clearing House, or ACH, transaction process used to disburse the proceeds of newly originated loans to our customers and to automatically collect scheduled payments on the loans. As we are not a bank, we do not have the ability to directly access the ACH payment network, and must therefore rely on an FDIC-insured depository institution to process our transactions, including loan payments. If we cannot continue to obtain such services from our current institutions or elsewhere, or if we cannot transition to another processor quickly, our ability to process payments will suffer. If we fail to adequately collect amounts owing in respect of the loans, as a result of the loss of direct debiting or otherwise, then payments to us may be delayed or reduced and our revenue and operating results will be harmed.. Demand for our loans may decline if we do not continue to innovate or respond to evolving technological changes.. We operate in a nascent industry characterized by rapidly evolving technology and frequent product introductions. We rely on our proprietary technology to make our platform available to customers, determine the creditworthiness of loan applicants, and service the loans we make to customers. In addition, we may increasingly rely on technological innovation as we introduce new types of loans, expand our current loans into new markets, and continue to streamline the lending process. The process of developing new technologies and products is complex, and if we are unable to successfully innovate and continue to deliver a superior customer experience, customers' demand for our loans may decrease and our growth and operations may be harmed.. It may be difficult and costly to protect our intellectual property rights, and we may not be able to ensure their protection.. Our ability to lend to our customers depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology, including our use of the OnDeck Score. We may be unable to protect our proprietary technology effectively which would allow competitors to duplicate our business processes and know-how, and adversely affect our ability to compete with them. A third party may attempt to reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology without our consent. The pursuit of a claim against a third party for infringement of our intellectual property could be costly, and there can be no guarantee that any such efforts would be successful.. In addition, our platform may infringe upon claims of third-party intellectual property, and we may face intellectual property challenges from such other parties. We may not be successful in defending against any such challenges or in obtaining licenses to avoid or resolve any intellectual property disputes. The costs of defending any such claims or litigation could be significant and, if we are unsuccessful, could result in a requirement that we pay significant damages or licensing fees, which would negatively impact our financial performance. Furthermore, our technology may become obsolete, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully develop, obtain or use new technologies to adapt our platform to compete with other lending platforms as they develop. If we cannot protect our proprietary technology from intellectual property challenges, or if the platform becomes obsolete, our ability to maintain our platform, make loans or perform our servicing obligations on the loans could be adversely affected.. Some aspects of our platform include open source software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could negatively affect our business.. We incorporate open source software into our proprietary platform and into other processes supporting our business. Such open source software may include software covered by licenses like the GNU General Public License and the Apache License or other open source licenses. The terms of various open source licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that limits our use of the software, inhibits certain aspects of the platform and negatively affects our business operations.. Some open source licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the type of open source software we use. If portions of our proprietary platform are determined to be subject to an open source license, or if the license terms for the open source software that we incorporate change, we could be required to publicly release the affected portions of our source code, re-engineer all or a portion of our platform or change our business activities. In addition to risks related to license requirements, the use of open source software can lead to greater risks than the use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of the software. Many of the risks associated with the use of open source software cannot be eliminated, and could adversely affect our business.. We may not be able to utilize a significant portion of our net operating loss carryforwards, which could harm our results of operations.. 31. Table of Contents. We had U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $82.1 million as of December 31, 2017. These net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire at various dates beginning in 2027.  As of December 31, 2017, after giving effect to new corporate tax rates prescribed by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted on December 22, 2017, we have recorded a full valuation allowance of $37.8 million against our net deferred tax asset.. The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, imposes substantial restrictions on the utilization of net operating losses and other tax attributes in the event of an \"ownership change\" of a corporation. Events which may cause limitation in the amount of the net operating losses and other tax attributes that are able to be utilized in any one year include, but are not limited to, a cumulative ownership change of more than 50% over a three-year period, which has occurred as a result of historical ownership changes. Accordingly, our ability to use pre-change net operating loss and certain other attributes are limited as prescribed under Sections 382 and 383 of the Code. Therefore, if we earn net taxable income in the future, our ability to reduce our federal income tax liability with our existing net operating losses is subject to limitation. Although we believe that our initial public offering did not result in another cumulative ownership change under Sections 382 and 383 of the Code, we do not believe that any resulting limitation will further limit our ability to ultimately utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes in a material way. Future offerings, as well as other future ownership changes that may be outside our control could potentially result in further limitations on our ability to utilize our net operating loss and tax attributes. Accordingly, achieving profitability may not result in a full release of the valuation allowance.. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common Stock. The price of our common stock may be volatile and the value of your investment could decline.. Stocks of emerging growth companies have experienced high levels of volatility. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. The market price of our common stock may be higher or lower than the price you pay, depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. These fluctuations could cause you to lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. Factors that could cause fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock include the following:. • announcements of new types of loans, services or technologies, relationships with strategic partners, acquisitions or other events by us or our competitors;. • changes in economic conditions;. • changes in prevailing interest rates;. • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time;. • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of technology companies in general and of companies in our industry;. • fluctuations in the trading volume of our shares or the size of our public float;. • the impact of securities analysts' reports or other publicity regarding our business or industry;. • actual or anticipated changes in our operating results or fluctuations in our operating results;. • quarterly fluctuations in demand for our loans;. • whether our operating results meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors;. • actual or anticipated changes in the expectations of investors or securities analysts;. • regulatory developments in the United States, foreign countries or both;. • major catastrophic events;. • sales of large blocks of our stock; or. • departures of key personnel.. In addition, if the market for financial or technology stocks or the stock market in general experiences loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. The trading price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. In August 2015, we became the subject of two putative class actions, which were subsequently consolidated, alleging that the registration statement for our IPO contained. 32. Table of Contents. materially false and misleading statements regarding, or failed to disclose, specified information in violation of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.  In September 2016, the consolidated cases were dismissed following the filing by the lead plaintiff of a notice of voluntary dismissal without prejudice as to all the parties.. If our stock price continues to be volatile, we may become the target of additional securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources from our business. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that they might occur, could reduce the price that our common stock might otherwise attain and may dilute your voting power and your ownership interest in us.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and may make it more difficult for you to sell your common stock at a time and price that you deem appropriate. At December 31, 2017, we had 73,822,001 shares of common stock outstanding.. At December 31, 2017, certain holders of our common stock (including shares issuable pursuant to the exercise of warrants to purchase common stock), or their permitted transferees, have registration rights under certain circumstances to require us to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. It is not possible for us to determine the total number of our shares that are currently subject to such registration rights because certain of our stockholders with registration rights transferred their shares to the Depository Trust Company in order to hold such shares anonymously in \"street name.\"  As a result, the actual number of shares with registration rights could be much larger than we are able to determine based on available information. We have also registered the offer and sale of all shares of common stock that we may issue under our 2014 Equity Incentive Plan and 2014 Employee Stock Purchase Plan.. We may issue our shares of common stock or securities convertible into our common stock from time to time in connection with a financing, acquisition, investments or otherwise. Any such issuance could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and cause the trading price of our common stock to decline.. Insiders and large stockholders have or could have substantial control over us, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control.. Our directors, executive officers and each of our stockholders who own greater than 5% of our outstanding common stock and their affiliates, in the aggregate, own approximately 47% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, based on the number of shares outstanding as of December 31, 2017. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, will be able to influence or control matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers, acquisitions or other extraordinary transactions. They may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock.. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future.. We have never declared or paid any dividends on our common stock. We intend to retain any earnings to finance the operation and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the future. As a result, you may only receive a return on your investment in our common stock if the market price of our common stock increases.. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management's attention and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified board members.. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Compliance with these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly, and increase demand on our systems and resources, particularly after we are no longer an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the JOBS Act. Among other things, the Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and operating results and maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. In order to maintain and, if required, improve our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting to meet this standard, significant resources and management oversight may be required. As a result, management's attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Although we. 33. Table of Contents. have already hired additional employees to comply with these requirements, we may need to hire even more employees in the future, which will increase our costs and expenses.. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time-consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expense and a diversion of management's time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed.. However, for so long as we remain an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the JOBS Act, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various requirements that are applicable to public companies that are not \"emerging growth companies,\" including not being required to comply with the independent auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We may take advantage of these exemptions until we are no longer an \"emerging growth company.\". We would cease to be an \"emerging growth company\" upon the earliest of: (i) the first fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of our initial public offering, (ii) the first fiscal year after our annual gross revenues are $1.07 billion or more, (iii) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt securities, or (iv) as of the end of any fiscal year in which the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeded $700 million as of the end of the second quarter of that fiscal year.  Based on the foregoing criteria, December 31, 2019 is  latest possible date through which we will continue to be an emerging growth company.. We also expect that these new rules, regulations and standards may make it more expensive for us as a public company to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified executive officers and qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, and Risk Management Committee.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the JOBS Act, and are taking advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to public companies that are not \"emerging growth companies,\" including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock, and our stock price may be more volatile and may decline.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about our business, or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research reports about our business, our share price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock depends, to some extent, on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who cover us should downgrade our shares, change their opinion of our shares or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, our share price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts should cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our share price or trading volume to decline.. Our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage takeover attempts and lead to management entrenchment.. 34. Table of Contents. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and third amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. These provisions could also make it difficult for stockholders to elect directors that are not nominated by the current members of our board of directors or take other corporate actions, including effecting changes in our management. These provisions include:. • a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms, which could delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our board of directors;. • the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquiror;. • the exclusive right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of our board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors;. • a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders;. • the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of our board of directors, our president, our secretary or a majority vote of our board of directors, which could delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors;. • the requirement for the affirmative vote of holders of at least 66 2/3% of the voting power of all of the then outstanding shares of the voting stock, voting together as a single class, to amend the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation relating to the issuance of preferred stock and management of our business or our amended and restated bylaws, which may inhibit the ability of an acquiror to effect such amendments to facilitate an unsolicited takeover attempt;. • the ability of our board of directors, by majority vote, to amend the bylaws, which may allow our board of directors to take additional actions to prevent an unsolicited takeover and inhibit the ability of an acquiror to amend the bylaws to facilitate an unsolicited takeover attempt; and. • advance notice procedures with which stockholders must comply to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquiror from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquiror's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us.. In addition, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us for a certain period of time."
