[1] "Item 1A.  RISK FACTORS. The following section includes the most significant factors that may adversely affect our business and operations. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and all information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before deciding to invest in our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Business. We anticipate that we will continue to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future, and if we are unable to achieve and sustain profitability, the market value of our common stock will likely decline.. We are a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company. Biopharmaceutical product development is a highly speculative undertaking and involves a substantial degree of risk. We do not currently have any therapeutic candidates in pivotal clinical trials or approved for sale, and we continue to incur significant research and development and general and administrative expenses related to our operations. We are not profitable and have incurred losses in each year since our founding in 2004. Our net losses for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015 were $39.1 million, $103.1 million and $85.4 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $452.0 million.. We expect to continue to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future. We expect these losses and our cash utilization to continue in the near term as we continue to conduct clinical trials for navicixizumab (anti-DLL4/VEGF bispecific, OMP-305B83), anti-TIGIT (OMP-313M32), and GITRL-Fc (OMP-336B11), and conduct research and development of our other therapeutic candidates.. We are collaborating with Celgene Corporation, or Celgene, to discover, develop and commercialize certain novel biologic therapeutic candidates, including navicixizumab, rosmantuzumab (anti-RSPO3, OMP-131R10), and anti-TIGIT. Under this agreement, Celgene has certain options to obtain exclusive licenses for the development and commercialization of the therapeutic candidates being developed in the collaboration. If Celgene exercises its option to obtain a license to develop and commercialize biologic therapeutic candidates for the navicixizumab program or the rosmantuzumab program, on a program-by-program basis, then, unless we elect not to co-develop and co-commercialize the therapeutic candidates for the applicable program in the United States, we will be responsible for a one-third share of the global development costs of therapeutic candidates for such program, with Celgene bearing the remaining two-thirds of such costs, and we will be entitled to participate in the commercialization activities for therapeutic candidates for such program in the United States, and to share 50% of all profits and losses arising from U.S. sales of such therapeutic candidates. For the anti-TIGIT program, and for the navicixizumab program and/or the rosmantuzumab program if we elect not to co-develop and co-commercialize the therapeutic candidates for such program, Celgene will generally assume responsibility for funding obligations with respect to clinical development and commercialization of the therapeutic candidate for such program after option exercise, with the exception of certain costs for certain continuing clinical trials for which we were responsible prior to option exercise.. If Celgene does not exercise its options, or if our collaboration with Celgene terminates, we will be responsible for funding further development of the relevant biologic therapeutic candidates unless we enter into another collaboration for such biologic therapeutic candidates. In addition, we are responsible for all costs associated. 29. with the development of any unpartnered therapeutic candidate.  GITRL-Fc is not currently partnered.  Unless and until we enter into a collaboration with respect to our unpartnered therapeutic candidates, which we may never do, any ongoing or future development of these therapeutic candidates, including any activities associated with the completion of ongoing clinical trials, will generally be funded entirely by us.. We intend to initiate the Phase Ib portion of the Phase I clinical trial of our anti-TIGIT therapeutic candidate in the first half of 2018. Under our collaboration agreement, we are responsible for funding all research and development activities for our anti-TIGIT program, including the costs associated with conducting this Phase Ib portion of our Phase I clinical trial, prior to Celgene's exercise of its option for the program. Celgene has not yet exercised its option for our anti-TIGIT program, which it may exercise during certain time periods through the end of certain Phase I clinical trials. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that Celgene will exercise its option for our anti-TIGIT program, and if Celgene does not exercise its option, we will be responsible for funding the Phase Ib portion of our Phase I clinical trial and any further development of our anti-TIGIT program.. All of our therapeutic candidates are in development, and none has been approved for sale. To date, we have derived all of our revenues from upfront payments, milestone payments and other payments we received under our prior and current collaborations with GSK, Bayer and Celgene, and have also supported our research and development efforts by utilizing certain government grants for research and development. We do not anticipate that we will generate revenue from the sale of our therapeutic candidates for the foreseeable future. If any of our therapeutic candidates receive regulatory approval, we may incur significant costs to commercialize our therapeutic candidates. Even after obtaining such regulatory approval, our products may never gain sufficient market acceptance and adequate market share. If our therapeutic candidates fail to demonstrate safety and efficacy in clinical trials, do not gain regulatory approval, or do not achieve market acceptance following regulatory approval and commercialization, we may never become profitable. Even if we achieve profitability in the future, we may not be able to sustain profitability in subsequent periods. If we are unable to achieve and sustain profitability, the market value of our common stock will likely decline. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing biopharmaceutical products, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or whether we will become profitable.. We are heavily dependent on the success of our most advanced therapeutic candidates, which are in various stages of clinical development. All of our therapeutic candidates are still in preclinical or clinical development. If we, or our current or future collaborators, are unable to commercialize our therapeutic candidates or if we, or our current or future collaborators, experience significant delays in obtaining regulatory approval for, or commercializing, any or all of our therapeutic candidates, our business will be materially and adversely affected.. We have invested a significant portion of our efforts and financial resources in the development of our most advanced therapeutic candidates that are in clinical development, including navicixizumab (anti-DLL4/VEGF bispecific, OMP-305B83), anti-TIGIT (OMP-313M32), and GITRL-Fc (OMP-336B11) for the treatment of various types of cancer.. All of our therapeutic candidates are still in preclinical and clinical development. Our ability to generate product revenues will depend heavily on our ability, and/or the ability of our current or future collaborators, to successfully develop and commercialize these therapeutic candidates. We do not expect that such commercialization of any of our therapeutic candidates will occur for at least the next several years, if ever. Our ability, and/or the ability of our current or future collaborators, to commercialize our therapeutic candidates effectively will depend on several factors, including the following:. •  successful completion of preclinical studies and clinical trials, including the ability to demonstrate safety and efficacy of our therapeutic candidates;. •  receipt of marketing approvals from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and similar regulatory authorities outside the United States;. •  establishing commercial manufacturing capabilities, for example, by making arrangements with third-party manufacturers;. •  successfully launching commercial sales of the product, whether alone or in collaboration with others;. 30. •  acceptance of the product by patients, the medical community and third-party payors;. •  establishing market share while competing with other therapies;. •  a continued acceptable safety and adverse event profile of our products following regulatory approval; and. •  qualifying for, identifying, registering, maintaining, enforcing and defending intellectual property rights and claims covering our therapeutic candidates.. If we, or our collaborators, do not achieve one or more of these factors in a timely manner or at all, we could experience significant delays or an inability to commercialize our therapeutic candidates, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on the successful development of our programs and therapeutic candidates. The development of new drugs and biologics is a highly risky undertaking, which involves a lengthy process, and the results of preclinical and early clinical trials are not necessarily predictive of future results. Our product discovery and development activities, or those of our current or future collaborators, therefore may not be successful on the time schedule we have planned, or at all.. Our programs and therapeutic candidates are in the early stages of drug discovery or clinical trials and are subject to the risks of failure inherent in drug development. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, three of our therapeutic candidates are currently in active clinical development: navicixizumab (anti-DLL4/VEGF bispecific, OMP-305B83), anti-TIGIT (OMP-313M32), and GITRL-Fc (OMP-336B11). We and/or our current or future collaborators will need to conduct significant additional preclinical studies and/or clinical trials before we can demonstrate that any of our therapeutic candidates is safe and effective to the satisfaction of the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Preclinical studies and clinical trials are expensive and uncertain processes that may take years to complete.. Success in preclinical studies and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will generate adequate data to demonstrate the efficacy and safety of a therapeutic candidate. A number of companies in the biotechnology industry, including those with greater resources and experience than us, have suffered significant setbacks in Phase II and Phase III clinical trials, despite promising results in earlier clinical trials. We do not know whether any Phase II, Phase III or other clinical trials we may conduct, or our current or future collaborators may conduct, will demonstrate adequate efficacy and safety to result in regulatory approval to market any of our therapeutic candidates. If later stage clinical trials do not produce favorable results, our ability, or the ability of our current or future collaborators, to achieve regulatory approval for any of our therapeutic candidates may be adversely impacted.. In addition, even if initial or interim data from a clinical trial appear encouraging, subsequent analyses of the mature data from the same trial at a later time point may or may not be favorable.  For example, even if interim median overall survival data from a clinical trial appear positive or encouraging, the final median overall survival data obtained from the trial at a later date may be less favorable.. Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing could significantly affect our product development costs or the product development costs of our current or future collaborators. We do not know whether planned clinical trials will begin on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. The commencement and completion of clinical trials can be delayed for a number of reasons, including delays related to:. •  obtaining regulatory authorization to commence a clinical trial or complying with conditions imposed by a regulatory authority regarding the scope or design of a clinical trial;. •  reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical research organizations, or CROs, and trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites;. 31. •  manufacturing, including manufacturing sufficient quantities of a therapeutic candidate or other materials for use in clinical trials;. •  obtaining IRB approval or the approval of other reviewing entities to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site;. •  recruiting and enrolling patients to participate in clinical trials for a variety of reasons, including size of patient population, complexity of clinical trial protocol, the availability of approved effective treatments for the relevant disease, changed standards of care during the conduct of the trial, and competition from other clinical trial programs for similar indications;. •  severe or unexpected drug-related adverse effects experienced by patients in a clinical trial; and. •  retaining patients who have initiated a clinical trial, but may withdraw due to treatment protocol, adverse effects from the therapy, lack of efficacy from the treatment, personal issues or who are lost to further follow-up.. Clinical trials may also be delayed, suspended or terminated as a result of ambiguous or negative interim results, or results that are inconsistent with earlier results.. In addition, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us, the FDA, the IRB or other reviewing entity overseeing the clinical trial at issue, any of our clinical trial sites with respect to that site, or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including:. •  failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols;. •  inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold;. •  unforeseen safety issues or any determination that a clinical trial presents unacceptable health risks; and. •  lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial, including the incurrence of unforeseen costs due to enrollment delays, requirements to conduct additional clinical trials and increased expenses associated with the services of our CROs and other third parties.. Product development costs to us and our collaborators will increase if we or our collaborators have delays in testing or approval of our therapeutic candidates or if we or they need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. Additionally, changes in regulatory requirements and policies may occur in any jurisdiction and we or our collaborators may need to amend clinical trial protocols to address these changes. Amendments may require us to resubmit our clinical trial protocols to IRBs for reexamination, which may impact the costs, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial. If we or our collaborators experience delays in completion of, or if we, the FDA or other regulatory authorities, the IRB or other reviewing entities, or any of our clinical trial sites suspend or terminate any of our clinical trials, the commercial prospects for our therapeutic candidates may be harmed and our ability to generate product revenues will be delayed. In addition, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, termination or suspension of, or a delay in the commencement or completion of, clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of a therapeutic candidate. Also, if one or more clinical trials are delayed, our competitors may be able to bring products to market before we do, and the commercial viability of our therapeutic candidates could be significantly reduced.. If a clinical trial of a therapeutic candidate that is part of one of our collaborations is delayed, suspended, or terminated for any reason, any potential future opt-in, milestone, and contingent consideration payments to us under that collaboration may be delayed or may not occur at all. Also, a delay, suspension, or termination of a clinical trial for a therapeutic candidate under our collaboration agreement with Celgene prior to option exercise, or the factors. 32. that led to such delay, suspension or termination, may negatively impact the decision by Celgene as to whether or not to exercise its option with respect to such therapeutic candidate.. Data from clinical trials of some of our previous therapeutic candidates have not been sufficiently encouraging for us to continue clinical development of those candidates. For example, our demcizumab (anti-DLL4; OMP-21M18) program, which is a part of our strategic collaboration with Celgene, was unsuccessful in the clinic and has been discontinued. In 2017, demcizumab failed to meet its primary efficacy endpoints in two Phase II clinical trials.  Celgene subsequently notified us that it does not intend to exercise its option for demcizumab.. We cannot assure you that any of our clinical trials will succeed or that any of our therapeutic candidates will reach the point where they are able to be successfully commercialized.. If we or our current or future collaborators are required to suspend or discontinue clinical trials due to side effects or other safety risks, or if we or they are required to conduct studies on the long-term effects associated with the use of our therapeutic candidates, our ability to commercialize our therapeutic candidates could be adversely affected or delayed.. Our clinical trials, and any clinical trials with our therapeutic candidates that may be run by our current or future collaborators, may be suspended, delayed, or terminated at any time for a number of safety-related reasons. For example, we may voluntarily suspend, delay, or terminate our clinical trials if at any time we believe that our therapeutic candidates present an unacceptable safety risk to the clinical trial patients, and our current or future collaborators may voluntarily suspend, delay, or terminate clinical trials they may run with our therapeutic candidates, if at any time they believe that our therapeutic candidates present an unacceptable safety risk to the clinical trial patients. In addition, IRBs or regulatory agencies may order the temporary discontinuation or termination of our clinical trials at any time if they believe that the clinical trials are not being conducted in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements, including if they present an unacceptable safety risk to patients. Administering any therapeutic candidate to humans may produce undesirable side effects. The existence of undesirable side effects resulting from our therapeutic candidates could cause us, or our collaborators, or regulatory authorities, such as the FDA, to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of our therapeutic candidates and could result in the FDA or other regulatory agencies denying further development or approval of our therapeutic candidates for any or all targeted indications. This, in turn, could affect whether Celgene exercises its development options under our collaboration and could prevent us from commercializing our therapeutic candidates. Further, our programs modulate novel classes of targets and/or modulate targets in novel ways. As a result, we may experience unforeseen adverse side effects with our therapeutic candidates currently in clinical development and any future therapeutic candidates, including navicixizumab (anti-DLL4/VEGF bispecific, OMP-305B83), anti-TIGIT (OMP-313M32), and GITRL-Fc (OMP-336B11).. The pharmacokinetic, pharmacodynamic, and safety profile of preclinical studies may not be indicative of results in any clinical trial. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have observed adverse events in clinical trials for all three of our therapeutic candidates currently in clinical development. We currently believe these adverse events are manageable. Nevertheless, such adverse events may cause challenges in development, approval and/or commercialization.. Patients treated with navicixizumab in our clinical trials have experienced treatment-related adverse events including hypertension, infusion reactions, gastrointernal/gallbladder perforation, thrombocytopenia, headache, fatigue, and pulmonary hypertension.  In our earlier clinical trials with a related anti-DLL4 antibody, demcizumab (anti-DLL4, OMP-21M18), cardiopulmonary events, including reversible pulmonary hypertension and/or heart failure, were observed in certain patients and resulted in demcizumab being placed on partial clinical hold until a risk mitigation strategy including cardiac monitoring and early intervention with cardioprotective medication, if indicated, was implemented.  A similar risk mitigation strategy has been implemented in our navicixizumab clinical trials.  The presence of anti-drug antibodies was observed in a subset of patients receiving navicixizumab in our Phase I clinical trials.  In at least some instances, the anti-drug antibodies were associated with infusion reactions to the drug resulting in suspension or termination of navicixizumab administration. Additionally, anti-drug antibodies negatively impacted the pharmacokinetics of navicixizumab in some patients. Treatment-related adverse events that have occurred in more than one patient treated with anti-TIGIT include rash and fatigue. Nausea has occurred as a. 33. treatment-related adverse event in at least one patient treated with GITRL-Fc. In addition, anti-drug antibodies have been observed in patients being treated with GITRL-Fc.. Further treatment of patients in the ongoing trials or subsequent trials of any of our therapeutic candidates could reveal significant harmful side effects. We have not conducted complete studies on the long-term effects associated with the use of all of our therapeutic candidates. Studies of these long-term effects may be required for regulatory approval and such requirement would delay the introduction of our therapeutic candidates, including those under our collaborations with Celgene, into the market. These studies could also be required at any time after regulatory approval of any of our therapeutic candidates. Absence of long-term data may also limit the approved uses of our products, if any, to short-term use. Some or all of our therapeutic candidates may prove to be unsafe for human use, which would materially harm our business.. The successful development and commercialization of our independent programs and any therapeutic candidate over which Celgene declines to exercise an option, for which we do not obtain anticipated research or development milestone payments prior to a decision by Celgene to exercise such option, or which we choose to co-develop and co-commercialize with Celgene after option exercise, will depend in large part on our ability either to raise capital to advance development of those programs or to secure collaborations with strategic partners that have the capital and expertise to bring products to market. We may be unable to secure such funds and/or secure such future collaborations.. If Celgene declines to exercise its options with respect to one or more therapeutic candidates covered by its collaboration agreement with us, terminates one or more programs under the collaboration agreement, or terminates the entire agreement, we will need to secure funding to advance development of those programs on our own and/or secure relationships with collaborators that have the necessary capital and expertise. In addition, if we are unable to achieve or are delayed in achieving anticipated research or development milestones, and are unable to obtain or are delayed in obtaining the applicable milestone payments, for any biologic therapeutic candidate under our collaboration agreement with Celgene, we are likely to need additional funding to advance such therapeutic candidate prior to our achievement of such research or development milestones or Celgene's decisions regarding option exercise with respect to such therapeutic candidate if development of that program is not discontinued.. Under our collaboration agreement with Celgene, we are not eligible to receive any further research or development milestone payments for any of our therapeutic candidates currently in clinical trials prior to Celgene's decisions regarding option exercise with respect to such therapeutic candidates. In addition, if Celgene exercises its option to any of the programs to which we have co-development and co-commercialization rights, and we retain our option to co-develop and co-commercialize that program, then, despite having certain mechanisms in place in our collaboration agreement with Celgene to control expenses, we may need to secure additional funding to support our obligations to pay one-third of global development costs for such program. If we are unable to secure such additional funding or are otherwise unable or unwilling to support our obligations for a program to which we have co-development and co-commercialization rights, we may need to opt out of our co-development and co-commercialization rights for the program and instead enter into an exclusive license agreement with Celgene regarding the program.. We may also choose to advance our therapeutic candidates and programs that are not part of the Celgene collaboration independently without partnering such therapeutic candidates and programs, which will require substantial funds. We are currently independently advancing GITRL-Fc (OMP-336B11) through clinical development, which is currently being funded entirely by us.  If any of our independent therapeutic candidates receive regulatory approval and are commercialized, substantial expenditures will also be required. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $103.1 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. We believe that our available cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to fund our anticipated level of operations through the third quarter of 2019, even without taking into account potential future milestone payments to us. Our future financing requirements will depend on many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:. •  the rate of progress and cost of our clinical trials, preclinical studies and other discovery and research and development activities;. 34. •  the timing of, and costs involved in, seeking and obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals;. •  the continuation and success of our strategic alliance with Celgene and future collaboration partners, including the exercise or non-exercise of further development options by Celgene, and the continuation and success of our small molecule program collaboration with Bayer, including the advancement or non-advancement of the small molecule programs into further development and potential commercialization by Bayer;. •  the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights, including litigation costs and the results of such litigation;. •  our ability to enter into additional collaboration, licensing, government or other arrangements and the terms and timing of such arrangements;. •  the potential need to acquire, by acquisition or in-licensing, other products or technologies; and. •  the emergence of competing technologies, changes in standard-of-care treatment, or other adverse market developments.. Future capital requirements will also depend on the extent to which we acquire or invest in additional complementary businesses, products and technologies. We currently have no understandings, commitments or agreements relating to any of these types of transactions.. Until we can generate a sufficient amount of product revenue to finance our cash requirements, which we may never do, we expect to finance future cash needs primarily through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, a credit facility, government grants and contracts and/or strategic collaborations. Additional financing may not be available to us when we need it or it may not be available to us on favorable terms, if at all. Additionally, to the extent that we seek a new strategic partner to develop any of our programs, we may not be able to secure a collaboration on favorable terms, if at all. A collaboration may not provide sufficient funding or value to bring a product to market, and further funding and/or collaborations may be required. The terms of any such collaboration may also significantly limit our share of potential future profits from the associated program, may require us to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our current therapeutic candidates, potential products or proprietary technologies, or may grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or form favorable collaborations, when needed, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our clinical trials or research and development programs or our commercialization efforts.. If Celgene does not exercise its options or if it terminates any development program under its collaboration with us or terminates its entire collaboration agreement with us, or if Bayer terminates the small molecule program under its collaboration agreement with us, whether as a result of our inability to meet milestones or otherwise, any potential revenue from those collaborations will be significantly reduced or non-existent, and our results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected.. Since our founding, we have invested a significant portion of our time and financial resources in the development of multiple biologic therapeutic candidates, including our navicixizumab (anti-DLL4/VEGF bispecific, OMP-305B83) and anti-TIGIT (OMP-313M32) programs, which are currently in clinical development and a part of our collaboration with Celgene.  It may not be possible to advance our current programs further in development if Celgene chooses not to exercise its options with respect to these programs. Under our agreement with Celgene, Celgene has options to obtain an exclusive license to develop further and commercialize biologic therapeutics in specified programs, which may be exercised during specified time periods through completion of certain clinical trials, provided that such completion occurs within a specified time period. Celgene's options may be exercised on a program-by-program basis for the demcizumab (anti-DLL4, OMP-21M18) program, the navicixizumab program, the rosmantuzumab (anti-RSPO3, OMP-131R10) program, and the anti-TIGIT program.  Celgene may decide not to exercise any or all of its options.  On June 29, 2017, Celgene informed us that it does not intend to exercise its option for the demcizumab program. Our clinical experience in treating. 35. patients in our Phase Ia/b clinical trial of rosmantuzumab has failed to provide compelling evidence of clinical benefit, and we are discussing next steps for the program with Celgene.. In addition to the upfront payment of $177.2 million, including a $22.2 million equity investment, we are eligible to receive opt-in payments upon Celgene's exercise of the option for each biologic therapeutic program. The collaboration also includes milestone payments for achievement of specified development, regulatory and commercial milestones, paid on a per-product and per-program basis. The opt-in payments and payments for achievement of development, regulatory and commercial milestones may total up to (1) $505.0 million for products in the navicixizumab program, including a $25.0 million opt-in payment, (2) approximately $442.8 million for products in the rosmantuzumab program, including an approximately $37.8 million opt-in payment, and (3) $440.0 million for products in the anti-TIGIT program (including payments received as of December 31, 2017), including a $35.0 million opt-in payment. We have received $75.0 million in milestone payments related to programs in the Celgene collaboration to date.. Celgene is under no obligation to exercise its option with respect to any of the biologic candidates. If Celgene does not exercise its option on a program, we will not receive any opt-in payment for that program. Further, there is no guarantee that any programs under our collaboration with Celgene will successfully advance to achieve the relevant further development, regulatory and commercial milestones and that we will receive the associated milestone payments on our anticipated timelines or at all.. For the navicixizumab program and the rosmantuzumab program, if we choose to co-develop and co-commercialize biologic therapeutic products in the United States, we are also entitled to share 50% of all product profits and losses in the United States. For such programs outside the United States, we are eligible to receive tiered royalties equal to a percentage of net product sales outside of the United States in the mid-single digits to the mid-teens. For the anti-TIGIT program, and for the navicixizumab program and/or the rosmantuzumab program if we elect not to co-develop or co-commercialize biologic therapeutic products under such program, Celgene is required to pay us tiered royalties equal to a percentage of net product sales worldwide in the high-single digits to the high-teens, with such royalties being increased where we had the right to co-develop and co-commercialize such biologic therapeutic products under such program but elected not to do so. We are responsible for funding all research and development activities for biologic therapeutics under the collaboration prior to Celgene's exercise of the option for such program.. The agreement with Celgene will terminate upon the expiration of all of Celgene's payment obligations under all license or co-development and co-commercialization agreements entered into with respect to programs following Celgene's exercise of an option for a given program, or if Celgene fails to exercise its options within the relevant option periods. The agreement may be terminated by either party for the insolvency of, or an uncured material breach of the agreement by, the other party. In addition, Celgene may terminate the agreement in its entirety or with respect to one or more programs subject to the collaboration, for any reason, with prior written notice to us. We may also terminate the agreement with respect to one or more programs in the event that Celgene challenges the licensed patents with respect to such program. Depending on the timing of any such termination we may not be entitled to receive the opt-in payments, or potential milestone payments, as these payments terminate with termination of the agreement.. If Celgene does not exercise its options with respect to rosmantuzumab, navicixizumab, or anti-TIGIT, or terminates its rights and obligations with respect to a program or the entire agreement, then depending on the timing of such event:. •  under certain circumstances, we may owe Celgene single-digit percentage royalties on therapeutic candidates covered by our agreement with Celgene that we elect to continue to commercialize and are successfully commercialized, subject to a cap;. •  the development of our therapeutic candidates subject to the Celgene agreement may be terminated or significantly delayed;. 36. •  our cash expenditures could increase significantly if it is necessary for us to hire additional employees and allocate scarce resources to the development and commercialization of therapeutic candidates that were previously funded by Celgene;. •  we would bear all of the risks and costs related to the further development and commercialization of therapeutic candidates that were previously the subject of the Celgene agreement, including the reimbursement of third parties; and. •  in order to fund further development and commercialization of new therapeutic candidates or programs, we may need to seek out and establish alternative collaboration arrangements with third-party partners; this may not be possible, or we may not be able to do so on terms which are acceptable to us, in which case, since assumption of sole responsibility for further development and commercialization would greatly increase our expenditures, it may be necessary for us to limit the size or scope of one or more of our programs, seek additional funding by other means, and/or choose to stop work altogether on one or more of the affected therapeutic candidates.. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. In addition to our collaboration with Celgene, we have a collaboration with Bayer that currently consists of a small molecule program. Under our agreement with Bayer, if Bayer elects to advance the small molecule program into further development and commercialization, we would be entitled to receive a $10.0 million advancement fee for the small molecule program and, for each small molecule therapeutic candidate, up to $102.0 million in the aggregate for development, regulatory, and commercial milestones, plus single-digit percentage royalties on net product sales. However, Bayer is under no obligation to advance the small molecule program into further development and commercialization, and there is no guarantee that Bayer will elect to do so or that we will receive the advancement fee or any other payments related to the small molecule program on our anticipated timelines or at all. Moreover, there is no guarantee that any such small molecule therapeutic candidate will achieve the relevant further development, regulatory, or commercial milestones.. Bayer may terminate, for any or no reason, the collaboration agreement upon prior written notice to us. The agreement may also be terminated by either party for material breach by the other party that is not cured within a specified cure period. Either party may terminate the agreement for insolvency by the other party, and we may terminate the agreement if Bayer challenges the licensed patents. Depending on the timing of any such termination we may not be entitled to receive the small molecule advancement fee or potential milestone payments, as these payments terminate with termination of the agreement.. The commercial success of our partnered therapeutic candidates that are part of our collaboration agreement with Celgene will depend in large part on Celgene's development and marketing efforts, if and when Celgene exercises its options on those programs. If Celgene is unable to perform in accordance with the terms of our agreement, our potential to generate future revenue from these programs would be significantly reduced and our business would be materially and adversely harmed.. If Celgene opts to exercise its options to license any therapeutic candidates under our agreement (and we do not co-develop and co-commercialize the licensed therapeutic candidate), we will have limited influence and/or control over Celgene's approaches to development and commercialization. While we will have potential milestone and royalty streams payable as Celgene or its sublicensees advance development of the therapeutic candidates that are not being co-developed and co-commercialized with us, we are likely to have limited ability to influence Celgene's development and commercialization efforts. Even if Celgene exercises its option to license a therapeutic candidate under its agreement to which we have global co-development rights and co-commercialization rights in the United States and we co-develop and co-commercialize such therapeutic candidate with Celgene, our ability to influence Celgene's development and commercialization plans may still be limited. Moreover, transitioning a therapeutic candidate to a collaboration partner after exercise of the partner's option can be a complex process and may cause delays in the development program for that therapeutic candidate. If  Celgene or any potential future collaboration partners do not perform in the manner that we expect or fulfill their responsibilities in a timely manner, or at all, or if significant delays arise from the transition of a therapeutic candidate to Celgene or a potential future. 37. collaboration partner after option exercise, the clinical development, regulatory approval and commercialization efforts related to therapeutic candidates we have licensed to such collaboration partners could be delayed or terminated.. If we terminate our collaboration with Celgene, or any program thereunder, due to a material breach by Celgene, we have the right to assume the responsibility at our own expense for the development of the applicable biologic therapeutic candidates. Assumption of sole responsibility for further development will greatly increase our expenditures, and may mean we need to limit the size and scope of one or more of our programs, seek additional funding and/or choose to stop work altogether on one or more of the affected therapeutic candidates. This could result in a limited potential to generate future revenue from such therapeutic candidates, and our business could be materially and adversely affected. Further, under certain circumstances, we may owe Celgene a single-digit percentage royalty on a therapeutic candidate successfully commercialized, subject to a cap.. We rely on third parties to conduct some of our preclinical studies and all of our clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize any of our therapeutic candidates.. Although we conduct certain preclinical studies, we currently do not have the ability to independently conduct preclinical studies that comply with good laboratory practices, or GLP. We also do not currently have the ability to independently conduct any clinical trials. We rely on medical institutions, clinical investigators, contract laboratories, collaborative partners and other third parties, such as CROs, to conduct GLP compliant preclinical studies and clinical trials on our therapeutic candidates. The third parties with which we contract for execution of our GLP preclinical studies and our clinical trials play a significant role in the conduct of these studies and trials and the subsequent collection and analysis of data. These third parties are not our employees and, except for restrictions imposed by our contracts with such third parties, we have limited ability to control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. Although we rely on these third parties to conduct our GLP compliant preclinical studies and clinical trials, we remain responsible for ensuring that each of our GLP preclinical studies and clinical trials is conducted in accordance with its investigational plan and protocol. The FDA and regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions require us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, or GCPs, for conducting, monitoring, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials, in order to ensure that the data and results are scientifically credible and accurate and that the trial subjects are adequately informed of the potential risks of participating in clinical trials.. Many of the third parties with whom we contract may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. If the third parties conducting our GLP preclinical studies or our clinical trials do not perform their contractual duties or obligations, experience work stoppages, do not meet expected deadlines, terminate their agreements with us or need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to their failure to adhere to our clinical trial protocols or to GCPs, or for any other reason, we may need to enter into new arrangements with alternative third parties. This could be costly, and our preclinical studies or clinical trials may need to be extended, delayed, terminated or repeated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval in a timely fashion, or at all, for the applicable therapeutic candidate, or to commercialize such therapeutic candidate being tested in such studies or trials.. We rely on single source third-party contract manufacturing organizations to manufacture and supply our therapeutic candidates for us. If one of our suppliers or manufacturers fails to perform adequately or fulfill our needs, or if these agreements are terminated by the third parties, we may be required to incur significant costs and devote significant efforts to find new suppliers or manufacturers. We may also face delays in the development and commercialization of our therapeutic candidates.. We currently have limited experience in, and we do not own facilities for, manufacturing our therapeutic candidates. We rely upon single source third-party contract manufacturing organizations to manufacture and supply large quantities of our therapeutic candidates. We currently utilize Lonza Sales AG, or Lonza, for the bulk manufacturing of our therapeutic candidates. We have also used Synco Bio Partners B.V. for fill/finish services (e.g. filling vials with drug substance, sealing and inspecting vials and performance of release assays). In addition, a number of our clinical trials require us to source and supply our clinical trial sites with other medications that are administered in conjunction with our therapeutic candidates, or co-medications. We rely upon third-party suppliers. 38. for the manufacture and supply of these co-medications, which are subject to the same risks as the manufacture and supply of our therapeutic candidates.. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products in compliance with current good manufacturing practice, or cGMP, regulations requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, including difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control, including stability of the therapeutic candidate and quality assurance testing, or shortages of qualified personnel. We cannot assure you that any stability failures or other issues relating to the manufacture of our therapeutic candidates or the supply of co-medications will not occur in the future. If the manufacturers of our therapeutic candidates or co-medications were to encounter any of these difficulties or otherwise fail to comply with their obligations to us or under applicable regulations, or if we were unable to timely identify third party suppliers of co-medications or enter into agreements with these third party suppliers for the supply of co-medications, our ability to provide study materials in our preclinical studies and clinical trials would be jeopardized. Any delay or interruption in the supply of preclinical study or clinical trial materials could delay the initiation of, enrollment in, and/or completion of our preclinical studies and clinical trials, increase the costs associated with maintaining our preclinical study and clinical trial programs and, depending upon the period of delay, require us to commence new trials at significant additional expense or terminate the studies and trials completely.. All manufacturers of our therapeutic candidates must comply with cGMP requirements enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. These requirements include, among other things, quality control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturers of our component materials may be unable to comply with these cGMP requirements and with other FDA, state and foreign regulatory requirements. The FDA or similar foreign regulatory agencies at any time may also implement new standards, or change their interpretation and enforcement of existing standards for manufacture, packaging or testing of products. We have little control over our manufacturers' compliance with these regulations and standards. A failure to comply with these requirements may result in fines and civil penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or recall, or withdrawal of product approval. If the safety of any product supplied is compromised due to our manufacturers' failure to adhere to applicable laws or for other reasons, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our products, and we may be held liable for any injuries sustained as a result. Any of these factors could cause a delay of clinical trials, regulatory submissions, approvals or commercialization of our therapeutic candidates or entail higher costs or impair our reputation.. Our current agreements with our suppliers do not provide for the entire supply of the bulk drug necessary for additional clinical trials or for full-scale commercialization. In the event that we and our suppliers cannot agree to the terms and conditions for them to provide some or all of our bulk drug clinical and commercial supply needs, or if any single-source supplier terminates the agreement in response to a breach by us, we would not be able to manufacture the bulk drug on a commercial scale until a qualified alternative supplier is identified, which could also delay the development of, and impair our ability to commercialize, our therapeutic candidates.. Although we believe that appropriate alternative sources of supply exist for each of our current therapeutic candidates, the number of third-party suppliers with the necessary manufacturing and regulatory expertise and facilities is limited, and it could be expensive and take a significant amount of time to arrange for alternative suppliers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. New suppliers of any bulk drug would be required to qualify under applicable regulatory requirements and would need to have sufficient rights under applicable intellectual property laws to the method of manufacturing such ingredients. Obtaining the necessary FDA approvals or other qualifications under applicable regulatory requirements and ensuring non-infringement of third-party intellectual property rights could result in a significant interruption of supply and could require the new manufacturer to bear significant additional costs which may be passed on to us. In addition, we may be required to pay potential fees and royalties to Lonza if we utilize other suppliers for bulk drug, given that we have used their proprietary production cell lines in our programs.. The failure of third-party manufacturers or suppliers to perform adequately or the termination of our arrangements with any of them may adversely affect our business.. 39. Even if our therapeutic candidates do obtain regulatory approval they may never achieve market acceptance or commercial success.. Even if we or our current or future collaborators obtain FDA or other regulatory approvals, and are able to launch our therapeutic candidates commercially, our therapeutic candidates may not achieve market acceptance among physicians, patients and third-party payors and, ultimately, may not be commercially successful. Market acceptance of our therapeutic candidates for which we receive approval depends on a number of factors, including:. •  the efficacy and safety of the therapeutic candidates as demonstrated in clinical trials;. •  the clinical indications for which the therapeutic candidate is approved;. •  acceptance by physicians, operators of treatment facilities and parties responsible for reimbursement of the product as a safe and effective treatment;. •  the potential and demonstrable advantages of our therapeutic candidates, including the cost of treatment and benefits over alternative treatments;. •  the safety of therapeutic candidates seen in a broader patient group, including use outside the approved indications;. •  the cost of treatment in relation to alternative treatments;. •  the availability of adequate reimbursement and pricing by third-party payors and government authorities;. •  relative convenience and ease of administration;. •  the tolerance of the products by patients, including prevalence and severity of adverse side effects; and. •  the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts.. Any failure by our therapeutic candidates that obtain regulatory approval to achieve market acceptance or commercial success would adversely affect our financial results.. If any of our therapeutic candidates receives marketing approval and we or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by the therapeutic candidate, our ability to market and derive revenue from the therapeutic candidates, or our current or future collaborators' ability to do so, could be compromised.. In the event that any of our therapeutic candidates receive regulatory approval and we or others identify undesirable side effects caused by one of our products, any of the following adverse events could occur:. •  regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product or seize the product;. •  we or our current or future collaborators may be required to recall the product or change the way the product is administered to patients;. •  additional restrictions may be imposed on the marketing of the particular product or the manufacturing processes for the product or any component thereof;. •  we or our current or future collaborators may be subject to fines, injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties;. •  regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, such as a \"black box\" warning or a contraindication;. •  we or our current or future collaborators may be required to create a Medication Guide outlining the risks of such side effects for distribution to patients;. •  we or our current or future collaborators could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients;. •  the product may become less competitive; and. •  our reputation or the reputation of our current or future collaborators may suffer.. 40. Any of the foregoing events could result in the loss of significant revenues to us, which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations and business.. We currently have no sales and marketing staff or distribution organization. If we are unable to develop a sales and marketing and distribution capability on our own or through our collaboration with Celgene or other potential marketing partners, we will not be successful in commercializing our future products.. We currently have no sales or marketing staff or distribution organization. If Celgene elects to exercise its option for a program under its agreement, including a program we are co-commercializing in the United States with Celgene, then although we intend to exercise our right to participate in specified promotion activities in the United States by contributing up to half of the overall sales force for the applicable program products, as well as to perform certain marketing and other commercial activities, Celgene will be responsible for booking sales of products. There is no guarantee that Celgene will elect to market and distribute our products or that Celgene will not elect to terminate our collaboration arrangement, which they have a right to do at any time with prior notice under our agreement. Further, we are likely to have limited control over the marketing and distribution activities of Celgene for products for which Celgene is solely responsible for development and commercialization. This will be the case for all biologic products outside the United States, and for all biologic products within the United States for which we either do not have, or for which we opt out of, our right to co-develop and co-commercialize such therapeutic candidates. On the other hand, if Celgene does not exercise its options, and we develop the therapeutic candidates that are currently part of our collaboration with Celgene ourselves, or if we develop unpartnered product candidates to the point of commercialization, we may need to enter into distribution or co-marketing arrangements with other third parties. Further, if Celgene exercises its options for therapeutic candidates under its agreement to which we have co-commercialization rights in the United States and we choose to exercise our right to co-commercialize such therapeutic candidates, we will need to build certain sales and marketing capabilities. If we need to rely on third parties for marketing and distributing our independently developed approved products, any revenue we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, which may not be successful and are only partially within our control, and our product revenue may be lower than if we directly marketed or sold our products. If we are unable to enter into arrangements with third parties to sell, market and distribute therapeutic candidates for which we have received regulatory approval on acceptable terms or at all, we will need to market these products ourselves. Marketing products ourselves or co-commercializing products with Celgene is likely to be expensive and logistically difficult, as it would require us to build our own sales force. We have no experience as a company in this area. If such efforts were necessary, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our future products. If we are not successful in commercializing our future products, either on our own or through our collaboration with Celgene or one or more third parties, or by co-promoting products with marketing partners, any future product revenue will be materially and adversely affected.. We may experience difficulties in managing our current activities and future growth given our level of managerial, operational, financial and other resources.. On April 24, 2017, our Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan, pursuant to which we reduced our workforce by 60 employees (or 48% of our then-current workforce). As of December 31, 2017, we had 56 employees.  On January 4, 2018, we announced that Paul J. Hastings, our then-Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer, resigned effective January 1, 2018. On January 31, 2018, we reported that Sunil Patel, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and previously a member of the Office of the President, will resign effective on or about March 9, 2018. We will need to manage our operations and clinical trials, continue our development activities and commercialize our therapeutic candidates with our reduced workforce and management team. Our management and personnel, systems and facilities currently in place may not be adequate to support our current activities or future growth. Our need to effectively execute our business strategy requires that we:. •  manage our clinical trials effectively, including two Phase Ib trials for navicixizumab (anti-DLL4/VEGF bispecific, OMP-305B83), a Phase Ia/b trial for anti-TIGIT (OMP-313M32), and a Phase Ia trial for GITRL-Fc (OMP-336B11), all of which are being conducted at multiple trial sites, as well as additional clinical trials we may initiate in the future;. 41. •  manage our internal research and development efforts effectively while carrying out our contractual obligations to licensors, contractors, collaborators, government agencies and other third parties;. •  continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures; and. •  maintain and motivate our remaining employees and identify, recruit, and integrate additional employees.. If we are unable to maintain or expand our managerial, operational, financial and other resources to the extent required to manage our development and commercialization activities, our business will be materially adversely affected.. We are highly dependent on the services of our President, John Lewicki, Ph.D., and other key executives, and if we are not able to retain these members of our management, recruit and retain a Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, or retain or recruit additional management, clinical and scientific personnel, our business will suffer.. Paul J. Hastings, previously our Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer, resigned effective January 1, 2018, and Sunil Patel, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and previously a member of the Office of the President, will resign effective on or about March 9, 2018. We may not be able to retain our remaining management, scientific and clinical personnel, or attract qualified management, scientific and clinical personnel in the future, due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and other businesses, particularly in the San Francisco Bay Area. In particular, although our board of directors has retained an executive search firm and has initiated a search for a full-time successor to Mr. Hastings, we cannot guarantee that we will find a successor with our desired qualifications, on our preferred terms, on our anticipated timelines, or at all.  Our industry has experienced a high rate of turnover of management personnel in recent years. In addition to the competition for personnel, the San Francisco Bay Area in particular is characterized by a high cost of living. As such, we could have difficulty attracting experienced personnel to our company and may be required to expend significant financial resources in our employee recruitment and retention efforts.  If we are not able to attract, retain and motivate necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will significantly impede the achievement of our development objectives, our ability to raise additional capital and our ability to implement our business strategy.. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff. The loss of service of any of our management could harm our business. In addition, we are dependent on our continued ability to retain and motivate our existing management, clinical and scientific personnel, and to potentially attract highly qualified additional management, clinical and scientific personnel. The competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical industry is intense. Due to our limited resources, we may not be able to effectively retain our existing personnel or attract and recruit additional qualified personnel. If we are not able to retain our management, particularly our President, Dr. Lewicki, and to attract, on acceptable terms, additional qualified personnel necessary for the continued development of our business, such as a new chief executive officer or chief financial officer, we may not be able to sustain our operations or grow. Although we have executed employment agreements with each member of our current executive management team, including Dr. Lewicki, these agreements are terminable at will with or without notice and, therefore, we may not be able to retain their services as expected.. In addition, we have scientific and clinical advisors who assist us in formulating our product development and clinical strategies. These advisors are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us, or may have arrangements with other companies to assist in the development of products that may compete with ours.. 42. If we are not successful in discovering, developing and commercializing additional therapeutic candidates, our ability to expand our business and achieve our strategic objectives, or receive payments from our future collaboration partners, would be impaired.. Although a substantial amount of our efforts will focus on the clinical testing and potential approval of our most advanced therapeutic candidates, which include navicixizumab (anti-DLL4/VEGF bispecific, OMP-305B83), anti-TIGIT (OMP-313M32), and GITRL-Fc (OMP-336B11), a key element of our strategy is to discover, develop and potentially commercialize a portfolio of antibody-based products and other biologics useful in the treatment of cancer. We are seeking to do so through our internal research programs. We may explore strategic partnerships for the development of new products or develop new unpartnered therapeutic candidates on our own. All of our potential therapeutic candidates, other than our three therapeutic candidates currently in clinical development, remain in the discovery and preclinical study stages. Research programs to identify therapeutic candidates require substantial technical, financial and human resources, whether or not any therapeutic candidates are ultimately identified. Our research programs may initially show promise in identifying potential therapeutic candidates, yet fail to yield therapeutic candidates for clinical development for many reasons, including the following:. •  the research methodology used may not be successful in identifying potential therapeutic candidates;. •  competitors may develop alternatives that render our therapeutic candidates obsolete;. •  a therapeutic candidate may, on further study, be shown to have harmful side effects or other characteristics that indicate it is unlikely to be effective or otherwise does not meet applicable regulatory criteria;. •  a therapeutic candidate may not be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at an acceptable cost, or at all; and. •  a therapeutic candidate may not be accepted as safe and effective by patients, the medical community or third-party payors.. If we are unsuccessful in identifying and developing additional therapeutic candidates, our potential for growth, or our ability to receive payments from our future collaboration partners, may be impaired.. We face substantial competition and our competitors may discover, develop or commercialize products faster or more successfully than us.. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive, and we face significant competition from companies in the biotechnology, pharmaceutical and other related markets that are researching and marketing products designed to address solid tumors and hematologic malignancies. Established pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that are known to be involved in oncology research and currently sell or are developing drugs in our markets of interest include AbbVie, Amgen, Astellas, AstraZeneca, Bayer, BMS, Celgene, Genentech (Roche), GSK, Johnson & Johnson, Lilly, Merck, Merck Serono, Novartis, Pfizer, Regeneron, Sanofi, Teva and others. There are also biotechnology companies of various sizes that are developing therapies against immuno-oncology targets.. It is possible that our competitors will develop and market drugs or other treatments that are less expensive and more effective than our therapeutic candidates, or that will render our therapeutic candidates obsolete. It is also possible that our competitors will commercialize competing drugs or treatments before we or our collaboration partners can launch any products developed from our therapeutic candidates. If approved for marketing by the FDA or other regulatory agencies worldwide, our therapeutic candidates would compete against existing cancer treatments such as Avastin®, Erbitux®, Yervoy\231, Keytruda®, Opdivo®, and chemotherapies, and potentially against other novel drug candidates or treatments that are currently in development. Additionally, there have been several additional monoclonal antibodies in development for cancer, such as Abbvie's ABT-165, an anti-DLL4/VEGF dual variable domain immunoglobulin, which is reportedly being studied in clinical trials. In the immuno-oncology field, there are several companies reportedly advancing programs modulating TIGIT and/or GITR in early stage research and development, including Genentech (Roche), Merck, and BMS. We also anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as new companies enter into our target markets and scientific developments surrounding the immuno-oncology field continue to develop.. 43. Many of our competitors have materially greater name recognition and financial, manufacturing, marketing, legal, research and drug development resources than we do. Additional mergers and acquisitions in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries may result in even more resources being concentrated in our competitors. Large pharmaceutical companies in particular have extensive expertise in preclinical and clinical testing and in obtaining regulatory approvals for drugs. In addition, academic institutions, government agencies, and other public and private organizations conducting research may seek patent protection with respect to potentially competitive products or technologies. These organizations may also establish exclusive collaborative or licensing relationships with our competitors.. Failure to successfully validate, develop and obtain regulatory approval for companion diagnostics could harm our product development strategy.. An important element of our clinical development strategy for certain of our therapeutic candidates such as  anti-TIGIT (OMP-313M32) and GITRL-Fc (OMP-336B11) is that we seek to identify patient subsets within a disease category who may derive selective and meaningful benefit from the therapeutic candidates we are developing. In collaboration with our partners, we plan to develop companion diagnostics for selected therapeutic candidates to help us to more accurately identify patients within a particular subset. Such companion diagnostics would be used during our clinical trials as well as in connection with the commercialization of our therapeutic candidates. Companion diagnostics are subject to regulation by the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities as medical devices and therefore require separate regulatory clearance or approval prior to commercialization. The clinical development of novel therapeutics with a companion diagnostic is complex from an operational and regulatory perspective because of the need for both the drug and the diagnostic to receive regulatory clearance or approval.. We will be dependent on identifying suitable third-party development partners, and on entering into appropriate agreements with such third parties, and on the sustained cooperation and effort of our future collaborators in developing and obtaining approval for these companion diagnostics. It may be necessary to resolve issues such as selectivity/specificity, analytical validation, reproducibility, or clinical validation of companion diagnostics during the development and regulatory approval processes. Moreover, even if data from preclinical studies and early clinical trials appear to support development of a companion diagnostic for a therapeutic candidate, data generated in later clinical trials may fail to support the analytical and clinical validation of the companion diagnostic. We and our future collaborators may encounter difficulties in developing, obtaining regulatory approval for, manufacturing and commercializing companion diagnostics similar to those we face with respect to our therapeutic candidates themselves, including issues with achieving regulatory clearance or approval, production of sufficient quantities at commercial scale and with appropriate quality standards, and in gaining market acceptance. Failure to overcome these hurdles would have an adverse effect on our ability to derive revenues from sales of our diagnostic products. Any delay or failure by us or our future collaborators to develop or obtain regulatory approval of the companion diagnostics where required in connection with obtaining approval of our therapeutic candidates could delay or prevent approval of our therapeutic candidates. In addition, a diagnostic company with whom we contract may decide to discontinue selling or manufacturing the companion diagnostic test that we anticipate using in connection with development and commercialization of our therapeutic candidates or our relationship with such diagnostic company may otherwise terminate. We may not be able to enter into arrangements with another diagnostic company to obtain supplies of an alternative diagnostic test for use in connection with the development and commercialization of our therapeutic candidates or do so on commercially reasonable terms, which could adversely affect and/or delay the development or commercialization of our therapeutic candidates.. We may form additional strategic alliances in the future with respect to our independent programs, including programs for which Celgene does not exercise its options, and we may not realize the benefits of such alliances.. We may form strategic alliances, create joint ventures or collaborations or enter into licensing arrangements with third parties with respect to our independent programs that we believe will complement or augment our existing business. For example, we may attempt to find a partner for licensing, development and/or commercialization of our unpartnered research, preclinical and clinical assets, or of clinical assets returned to us by Celgene as a result of its decision to terminate our collaboration agreement or to not exercise its options for such assets. Our currently unpartnered programs include GITRL-Fc (OMP-336B11).  We routinely engage in partnering discussions with a. 44. range of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and could enter into new collaborations at any time. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate strategic partners, and the negotiation process to secure appropriate terms is time-consuming and complex. Any delays in identifying suitable development partners and entering into agreements to develop our therapeutic candidates could also delay the commercialization of our therapeutic candidates, which may reduce their competitiveness even if they reach the market. Moreover, we may not be successful in our efforts to establish such a strategic partnership for any of our unpartnered therapeutic candidates and programs on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. This may be because our therapeutic candidates and programs may be deemed to be at too early of a stage of development for collaborative effort, our research and development pipeline may be viewed as insufficient, and/or third parties may not view our therapeutic candidates and programs as having sufficient potential for commercialization, including the likelihood of an adequate safety and efficacy profile. Even if we are successful in entering into a strategic alliance or license arrangement, there is no guarantee that the collaboration will be successful, or that any future partner will commit sufficient resources to the development, regulatory approval, and commercialization effort for such products, or that such alliances will result in us achieving revenues that justify such transactions.. We may engage in strategic transactions that could impact our liquidity, increase our expenses and present significant distractions to our management.. From time to time, we may consider strategic transactions, such as acquisitions of companies, asset purchases, and out-licensing or in-licensing of products, therapeutic candidates or technologies. Additional potential transactions that we may consider include a variety of different business arrangements, including spin-offs, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, restructurings, divestitures, business combinations and investments. Any such transaction may require us to incur non-recurring or other charges, may increase our near- and long-term expenditures and may pose significant integration challenges or disrupt our management or business, which could adversely affect our operations and financial results. For example, these transactions may entail numerous operational and financial risks, including:. •  exposure to unknown liabilities;. •  disruption of our business and diversion of our management's time and attention in order to develop acquired products, therapeutic candidates or technologies;. •  incurrence of substantial debt or dilutive issuances of equity securities to pay for acquisitions;. •  higher-than-expected acquisition and integration costs;. •  write-downs of assets or goodwill or impairment charges;. •  increased amortization expenses;. •  difficulty and cost in combining the operations and personnel of any acquired businesses with our operations and personnel;. •  impairment of relationships with key suppliers or customers of any acquired businesses due to changes in management and ownership; and. •  inability to retain key employees of any acquired businesses.. Accordingly, although there can be no assurance that we will undertake or successfully complete any transactions of the nature described above, any transactions that we do complete may be subject to the foregoing or other risks, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. We may be subject to costly product liability claims related to our clinical trials and therapeutic candidates and, if we are unable to obtain, or maintain, adequate insurance or are required to pay for liabilities resulting from a claim excluded from, or beyond the limits of, our insurance coverage, a material liability claim could adversely affect our financial condition.. Because we conduct clinical trials with human patients, we face the risk that the use of our therapeutic candidates may result in adverse side effects to patients in our clinical trials. We face even greater risks upon any. 45. commercialization of our therapeutic candidates. Although we have product liability insurance, which covers our clinical trials, for up to $10.0 million, our insurance may be insufficient to reimburse us for any expenses or losses we may suffer, and we may be required to increase our product liability insurance coverage for any advanced clinical trials that we may initiate in the future. We do not know whether we will be able to continue to obtain product liability coverage and obtain expanded coverage if we require it, on acceptable terms, or at all. We may not have sufficient resources to pay for any liabilities resulting from a claim excluded from, or beyond the limits of, our insurance coverage. Where we have provided indemnities in favor of third parties under our agreements with them, there is also a risk that these third parties could incur liability and bring a claim under such indemnities. An individual may bring a product liability claim against us alleging that one of our therapeutic candidates or products causes, or is claimed to have caused, an injury or is found to be unsuitable for consumer use. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in:. •  withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers, investigators, patients or trial sites;. •  the inability to commercialize our therapeutic candidates;. •  decreased demand for our therapeutic candidates;. •  regulatory investigations that could require costly recalls or product modifications;. •  loss of revenues;. •  substantial costs of litigation;. •  liabilities that substantially exceed our product liability insurance, which we would then be required to pay ourselves;. •  an increase in our product liability insurance rates or the inability to maintain insurance coverage in the future on acceptable terms, if at all;. •  the diversion of management's attention from our business; and. •  damage to our reputation and the reputation of our products.. Product liability claims may subject us to the foregoing and other risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. Key elements of our product discovery technologies, such as our linkerless trimer technology, human tumor xenograft models, and antibody display technology, are new approaches to the discovery and development of new therapeutic candidates and may not result in the discovery of any products of commercial value.. We have developed a suite of discovery technologies to enable generation and testing of novel therapeutic candidates. For example, we have developed a novel protein engineering technology that we are using to generate single-gene, linkerless trimers of TNF superfamily ligands as potential therapeutic candidates. In addition, we have created a bank of over 300 patient derived human tumors that we routinely utilize in human tumor xenograft models to screen our therapeutic candidates for evidence of activity. We have also developed a mammalian display antibody technology that we use routinely to select antibody therapeutic candidates for in vivo testing. We cannot assure you that any of these technologies will yield therapeutic candidates of commercial value.. Our business involves the use of hazardous materials and we and our third-party manufacturers must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which may be expensive and restrict how we do business.. Our third-party manufacturers' activities and our own activities involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials, including the components of our pharmaceutical therapeutic candidates, test samples and reagents, biological materials and other hazardous compounds. We and our manufacturers are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials. We currently carry no insurance specifically covering environmental claims relating to the use of hazardous materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials and waste products comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from the use, storage, handling or disposal of. 46. hazardous materials. In the event of an accident, state or federal or other applicable authorities may curtail our use of these materials and/or interrupt our business operations. In addition, if an accident or environmental discharge occurs, or if we discover contamination caused by prior operations, including by prior owners and operators of properties we acquire, we could be liable for cleanup obligations, damages and fines. If such unexpected costs are substantial, this could significantly harm our financial condition and results of operations.. Our internal computer systems, or those of our CROs or other contractors or consultants, may fail or suffer security breaches, which could result in a material disruption of our product development programs.. Our business is increasingly dependent on critical, complex and interdependent information technology systems to support business processes as well as internal and external communications. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems and those of our CROs and other contractors and consultants are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. While, to our knowledge, we have not experienced any such system failure, accident or security breach to date, if such an event were to occur and cause interruptions in our operations, it could result in a material disruption of our programs. For example, the loss of clinical trial data from completed or ongoing clinical trials for any of our therapeutic candidates could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. In addition, our systems are potentially vulnerable to data security breaches, whether by employees or others, which may expose sensitive data to unauthorized persons. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss of or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liability and the further development of our therapeutic candidates could be delayed.. Our employees, independent contractors, principal investigators, CROs, consultants and vendors may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including noncompliance with regulatory standards and requirements.. We are exposed to the risk that our employees, independent contractors, principal investigators, CROs, consultants and vendors may engage in fraudulent or other illegal activity. Misconduct by these parties could include intentional, reckless and/or negligent conduct or disclosure of unauthorized activities to us that violates: (i) FDA laws and regulations, including those laws that require the reporting of true, complete and accurate information to the FDA, (ii) manufacturing standards, (iii) federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations, and (iv) laws that require the true, complete and accurate reporting of financial information or data. In particular, sales, marketing and business arrangements in the healthcare industry are subject to extensive laws and regulations intended to prevent fraud, kickbacks, self-dealing and other abusive practices. These laws and regulations may restrict or prohibit a wide range of pricing, discounting, marketing and promotion, sales commission, customer incentive programs and other business arrangements. Activities subject to these laws also involve the improper use of information obtained in the course of clinical trials, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious harm to our reputation. It is not always possible to identify and deter misconduct by employees and other third parties, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations. Additionally, we are subject to the risk that a person or government could allege such fraud or other misconduct, even if none occurred. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, monetary fines, disgorgements, possible exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs, individual imprisonment, other sanctions, contractual damages, reputational harm, diminished profits and future earnings, and curtailment of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our results of operations.. Requirements associated with being a public company have increased our costs significantly and have diverted significant company resources and management attention.. Prior to our initial public offering in July 2013, we had not been subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, or the other rules and regulations of the SEC or any securities exchange relating to public companies. We are continuing to work with our legal, independent accounting and financial advisors to identify those areas in which changes should be made to our financial and. 47. management control systems to manage our growth and our obligations as a public company. These areas include corporate governance, corporate control, disclosure controls and procedures and financial reporting and accounting systems. We have made, and will continue to make, changes in these and other areas. However, the expenses that have been required in order to operate as a public company have been material, and may increase after we cease to be an \"emerging growth company.\" Compliance with the various reporting and other requirements applicable to public companies has also required considerable time and attention of management. In addition, the changes we have made and may make in the future may not be sufficient to allow us to satisfy our obligations as a public company on a timely basis.. However, for as long as we remain an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the Jumpstart our Business Startups Act, or the JOBS Act, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not \"emerging growth companies,\" including not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We may take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer an \"emerging growth company.\" Once we are no longer an \"emerging growth company,\" or if prior to such date, we opt to no longer take advantage of the applicable exemption, we would incur the greater expenses associated with such reporting requirements.. We will remain an \"emerging growth company\" for up to five years from our initial public offering in July 2013, that is, until December 31, 2018, although if we issue more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt in a three-year period, we would cease to be an \"emerging growth company\" immediately.. In addition, being a public company made it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including directors' and officers' liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage in the future. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, on our board committees or as executive officers.. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may be subject to sanctions by regulatory authorities.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and have provided a management report on the internal control over financial reporting. If we have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, we may not detect errors on a timely basis and our financial statements may be materially misstated. We evaluate our internal controls systems to allow management to report on, and eventually allow our independent auditors to attest to, our internal controls. We are currently performing and will continue to perform the system and process evaluation and testing (and any necessary remediation) required to comply with the management certification and eventual auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The aforementioned auditor attestation requirements will not apply to us until we are no longer considered an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the JOBS Act.. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, or NASDAQ. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results or investors' confidence in us and could cause our stock price to fall. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal controls that are deemed to be material weaknesses, we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by NASDAQ, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would entail expenditure of additional financial and management resources and could materially adversely affect our stock price. Inferior internal controls could also cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on our stock price.. 48. The recently enacted comprehensive tax reform legislation could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"Tax Act\"). The Tax Act makes broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code, including, but not limited to, (1) reducing the U.S. federal top corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%; (2) requiring companies to pay a one-time transition tax on certain unrepatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries; (3) generally eliminating U.S. federal income taxes on dividends from foreign subsidiaries; (4) requiring a current inclusion in U.S. federal taxable income of certain earnings of controlled foreign corporations; (5) eliminating the corporate alternative minimum tax (\"AMT\") and changing how existing AMT credits can be realized; (6) creating the base erosion anti-abuse tax, a new minimum tax; (7) creating a new limitation on deductible interest expense; and (8) changing rules related to the use and limitations of net operating loss carryforwards created in tax years beginning after December 31, 2017. Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the Tax Act is uncertain and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, it is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to the newly enacted federal tax law. The determination of the benefit from (or provision for) income taxes requires complex estimations, significant judgments and significant knowledge and experience concerning the applicable tax laws. Given that we are still in the transition period for the accounting for income tax effects of the Tax Act, the current assessment on deferred tax assets (liabilities) is based on the currently available information and guidance. If in the future any element of the Tax Act changes the related accounting guidance for income tax, it could affect our income tax position and we may need to adjust the benefit from (or provision for) income taxes accordingly.. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited.. We have incurred substantial losses during our history and do not expect to become profitable in 2018 and may never achieve profitability. To the extent that we continue to generate taxable losses, unused losses will carry forward to offset future taxable income, if any, until such unused losses expire. We may be unable to use these losses to offset income before such unused losses expire. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"), if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change\" (generally defined as a greater than 50 percentage point change (by value) in its equity ownership over a rolling three-year period), the corporation's ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes to offset its post-change income may be further limited. We have experienced ownership changes in the past, and we may experience additional ownership changes in the future as a result of subsequent shifts in our equity ownership, some of which are outside of our control. As of December 31, 2017, we had federal and California net operating loss carryforwards of $229.3 million and $97.0 million, respectively, that could be limited if we experience an ownership change, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. We may be adversely affected by the current global economic environment.. Our ability to attract and retain collaboration partners or customers, invest in and grow our business and meet our financial obligations depends on our operating and financial performance, which, in turn, is subject to numerous factors, including the prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors beyond our control, such as the rate of unemployment, the number of uninsured persons in the United States and inflationary pressures. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by general conditions in the global economy and in the global financial markets. The recent global financial crisis caused extreme volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit markets. We cannot anticipate all the ways in which the current global economic climate and global financial market conditions could adversely impact our business.. We are exposed to risks associated with reduced profitability and the potential financial instability of our collaboration partners or customers, many of which may be adversely affected by volatile conditions in the financial markets. For example, unemployment and underemployment, and the resultant loss of insurance, may decrease the demand for healthcare services and pharmaceuticals. If fewer patients are seeking medical care because they do not have insurance coverage, our collaboration partners or customers may experience reductions in revenues, profitability and/or cash flow that could lead them to reduce their support of our programs or financing activities. If collaboration partners or customers are not successful in generating sufficient revenue or are precluded from securing financing, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable that are owed to us.. 49. In addition, the volatility in the financial markets could cause significant fluctuations in the interest rate and currency markets. We currently do not hedge for these risks. The foregoing events, in turn, could adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity. To the extent economic challenges result in fewer individuals pursuing or being able to afford our therapeutic candidates once commercialized, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected.. Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenues and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses.. Our operations could be subject to earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics and other natural or manmade disasters or business interruptions. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could seriously harm our operations and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our corporate headquarters is located in California and certain clinical sites for our therapeutic candidates, operations of our existing and future partners and suppliers are or will be located in California near major earthquake faults and fire zones. The ultimate impact on us, our significant partners, suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults and fire zones and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown, but our operations and financial condition could suffer in the event of a major earthquake, fire or other natural or manmade disaster.. Risks Related to Intellectual Property. We or our collaborators may become subject to third parties' claims alleging infringement of their patents and proprietary rights, which could be costly or delay or prevent the development and commercialization of our therapeutic candidates, or we may need to become involved in legal proceedings to invalidate the patents or proprietary rights of third parties.. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others.  Litigation relating to infringement or misappropriation of patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries is common. We or our collaborators may be subject to third-party claims in the future that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and which, if successful, could cause us to pay substantial damages, if we or our collaborators are found to be infringing a third party's patent rights. These damages potentially include increased damages and attorneys' fees if we are found to have infringed such rights willfully. Further, if a patent infringement suit is brought against us or our collaborators, our research, development, manufacturing or sales activities relating to the product or therapeutic candidate that is the subject of the suit may be delayed or terminated. As a result of patent infringement claims, or in order to avoid potential infringement claims, we or our collaborators may choose to seek, or be required to seek, a license from the third party, which would be likely to include a requirement to pay license fees or royalties or both. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if a license can be obtained on acceptable terms, the rights may be nonexclusive, which would give our competitors access to the same intellectual property rights. If we are unable to enter into a license on acceptable terms, we or our collaborators could be prevented from commercializing one or more of our therapeutic candidates, or forced to modify such therapeutic candidates, or to cease some aspect of our business operations, which could harm our business significantly.. We are aware of U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications controlled by third parties that may relate to the areas in which we are developing therapeutic candidates. Because all issued patents are entitled to a presumption of validity in many countries, including the United States and many European countries, issued patents held by others that claim our products or technology may limit our freedom to operate unless and until these patents expire or are declared invalid or unenforceable in a court of applicable jurisdiction, if we do not obtain a license or other right to practice the claimed inventions. Pending patent applications controlled by third parties may result in additional issued patents claiming our products and technology. In addition, the publication of patent applications occurs with a certain delay after the date of filing, so we may not be aware of all relevant patent applications of third parties at a given point in time. Further, publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, so we may not be able to determine whether inventions claimed in patent applications of third parties have been made before or after the date on which inventions claimed in our patent applications and patents have been made. If U.S. patent applications filed by third parties claim technology or therapeutics that are also claimed by our patent applications or patents, we may, under certain circumstances, have. 50. to participate in interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, to determine the priority of invention. We may also become involved in inter partes or post-grant review proceedings in the USPTO, opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office, or EPO, or other proceedings before patent offices in the U.S. or foreign countries, regarding the intellectual property rights of third parties. We may also become involved in legal proceedings before courts in the U.S. or foreign countries in which we challenge the intellectual property rights of a third party.  The outcome of these proceedings may be uncertain. An unfavorable outcome in these proceedings regarding the intellectual property rights of a third party could require us to attempt to license rights from the prevailing party, or to cease using the related technology or developing or commercializing the related therapeutic candidate, which would have a material adverse effect on our business.. For example, we initiated an opposition proceeding at the EPO to narrow or invalidate the claims of European Patent No. 2157192 (the '192 patent), a European patent owned by a third party that relates to certain anti-RSPO3 antibodies. The EPO has, in a first instance, found the patent, as amended during the opposition proceeding, to be valid. We are appealing this decision, but the EPO Board of Appeal will not be expected to issue a final decision for a couple more years and the ultimate outcome is uncertain. If we are not ultimately successful in the appeal proceeding and the issued claims of the '192 patent are determined to be valid and construed to cover rosmantuzumab (anti-RSPO3; OMP-131R10), we and our collaborators may not be able to commercialize rosmantuzumab in some or all European countries prior to expiration of the patent without obtaining a license to the patented technology, which may cause us to incur licensing-related costs. Also, a license may not be available under acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, even if we are ultimately successful in the appeal proceeding, such result would be limited to our activities in Europe. The third party that owns the '192 patent has pursued, in other countries including the U.S., claims that are similar to those granted by the EPO in the '192 patent, and we may need to initiate or engage in opposition proceedings or other legal proceedings in such other countries with respect to patents that have issued or may issue with claims similar in scope to those of the '192 patent. If we are unsuccessful in challenging a patent similar to the '192 patent in a country, and if a valid claim of the similar patent is construed to cover rosmantuzumab, we may be required to obtain a license to continue developing and commercializing rosmantuzumab in that country, which may not be available under acceptable terms, or at all.. We may become subject to third parties' claims seeking to invalidate our patents or proprietary rights, or we may need to become involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings to protect or enforce our patents, which could put our patents and other proprietary rights at risk.. Competitors may infringe our patents, or misappropriate or violate our other intellectual property rights. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may find it necessary to file infringement or other claims to protect our intellectual property rights. In addition, in any infringement proceeding brought by us against a third party to enforce our rights, a court may decide that a patent of ours is invalid or unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the basis that our patents do not cover the technology in question. In patent litigation in the U.S., defendant counterclaims alleging invalidity or unenforceability are commonplace, and there are numerous grounds upon which a third party can assert invalidity or unenforceability of a patent. An adverse result in any patent litigation proceeding could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly, which could open us up to additional competition and have a material adverse effect on our business.. Third parties may also raise claims alleging the invalidity or unenforceability of our patents in other forms of proceedings, including proceedings before administrative bodies in the U.S. or abroad, even outside the context of patent litigation. The use of administrative proceedings for challenging patents, including interference, derivation, and reexamination proceedings before the USPTO or oppositions and other comparable proceedings in foreign jurisdictions, is common in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries. For instance, we may be involved in opposition proceedings in the EPO regarding our intellectual property rights with respect to our therapeutic candidates. Due to recent changes in U.S. patent law, new procedures including inter partes review and post-grant review have been implemented and are now also available for use in patent challenges, and the use of inter partes review to challenge the validity of patents in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries has become increasingly common. The outcome of administrative proceedings in which our patents are challenged may be uncertain.  An unfavorable outcome of these proceedings could weaken our intellectual property position, including potentially reducing some of the patent protection on our therapeutic candidates, and potentially open us up to additional competition.  Additional competition may reduce our market share and adversely affect our business.. 51. For example, an anonymous third party initiated an opposition at the EPO against one of our European patents that related in part to certain anti-RSPO and anti-LGR antibodies and certain of their uses. Our patent was revoked in the opposition proceeding, but we are appealing that decision and the ultimate outcome of the appeal remains uncertain.  The EPO Board of Appeal will not be expected to issue a final decision for several more years.   If we are ultimately unsuccessful in reversing the revocation decision during the appeal proceeding, or unsuccessful in defending the patent in any subsequent opposition proceedings or appeals, the patent may remain revoked or, if the patent is reinstated, the claims of the patent may be narrowed. The revocation of the patent or narrowing of the claims could weaken our intellectual property position on anti-RSPO and/or anti-LGR5 antibodies, reduce in part some of the patent protection on rosmantuzumab, and potentially open us up to additional competition.. Any lawsuits or other legal proceedings in which we or our collaborators may become involved regarding our patents or proprietary rights and/or the patents or proprietary rights of third parties could be costly, time-consuming, delay or prevent the development and commercialization of our therapeutic candidates, or adversely affect our stock price.. The cost to us of any patent litigation or other proceedings regarding our patents and/or third party patents, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Such litigation or proceedings could substantially increase our operating losses and reduce our resources available for development activities. We may not have sufficient financial or other resources to adequately conduct such litigation or proceedings. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments, and, if securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, there could be a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also require significant time and attention of management and technical staff, which may materially and adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with any intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation.. Our proprietary rights may not adequately protect our technologies and therapeutic candidates. If we are unable to protect our therapeutic candidates and our intellectual property rights, it may materially and adversely affect our position in the market.. Our commercial success will depend on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection for our technologies, intellectual property and therapeutic candidates in the United States and other countries. There is no guarantee that any of our patent applications will result in issued patents, or that any patents, if issued, will include claims that are sufficiently broad to cover our therapeutic candidates or products, or to provide meaningful protection from our competitors. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies and future products are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets within our organization. If third parties disclose or misappropriate our proprietary rights, it may materially and adversely impact our position in the market.. We apply for patents covering both our technologies and therapeutic candidates, as we deem appropriate. However, we may fail to apply for patents on important technologies or therapeutic candidates in a timely fashion, or at all. Our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from using our technologies or from developing competing products and technologies. Moreover, the patent positions of numerous biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. As a result, the validity and enforceability of our patents cannot be predicted with certainty. In addition, we cannot guarantee you that:. •  we were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our issued patents and pending patent applications;. •  we were the first to file patent applications for these inventions;. 52. •  others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies by inventing around our claims;. •  a third party will not challenge our proprietary rights, and, if challenged, that a court or patent office, as applicable, will hold that our patents are valid and enforceable;. •  any patents issued to us or our collaboration partners will cover our product as ultimately developed, or provide us with any competitive advantages, or will not be challenged by third parties;. •  we will develop additional proprietary technologies or therapeutic candidates that are patentable; or. •  the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our business.. Patent applications in the United States and most other countries are confidential for a period of time until they are published, and publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature typically lags behind actual discoveries by several months or more. As a result, we cannot be certain that the inventors of our issued patents and applications and those of any patents and applications that we may in-license were the first to conceive of the inventions covered by such patents and pending patent applications or that we or a licensor were the first to file patent applications covering such inventions.. Our issued patents covering our therapeutic candidates could be found invalid or unenforceable if challenged in court or before the USPTO or comparable foreign authority. For instance, we may become involved in opposition proceedings before the EPO, proceedings such as interferences, re-examination, inter partes review, or post-grant review before the USPTO, and/or legal proceedings before the courts in the U.S. or foreign countries regarding patents in our portfolio, and the outcome of any such proceeding may be uncertain. The outcome regarding legal assertions of invalidity and unenforceability is unpredictable. If a third party challenging one or more of our patents were to prevail on a legal assertion of invalidity and/or enforceability, we would lose at least part, and perhaps all, of the patent protection on our therapeutic candidates. Such a loss of patent protection could have a material adverse impact on our business.. In addition, there are numerous recent changes to the patent laws and proposed changes to the rules of the USPTO which may have a significant impact on our ability to protect our technology and enforce our intellectual property rights. For example, on September 16, 2011, President Obama signed the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, which codifies several significant changes to the U.S. patent laws, including, among other things, changing from a \"first to invent' to a \"first inventor to file\" system, limiting where a patentee may file a patent suit, eventually eliminating interference proceedings while creating derivation actions, and creating a set of procedures to challenge patents in the USPTO after they have issued. The effects of these changes are currently uncertain as the courts have yet to address many of these provisions in the context of a dispute. The U.S. Supreme Court has also recently issued multiple decisions regarding patent law, the full impact of which is not yet known. The rulings have narrowed the scope of patent protection available under certain circumstances and weakened the rights of patent owners in certain situations. In addition to increasing uncertainty with regard to the ability to obtain patents in the future, these events have created uncertainty with respect to the value of patents once obtained. For example, on March 20, 2012 in Mayo Collaborative Services, DBA Mayo Medical Laboratories, et al. v. Prometheus Laboratories, Inc., the Court held that several claims drawn to measuring drug metabolite levels from patient samples and correlating them to drug doses were not patent eligible subject matter. The decision appears to impact diagnostics patents that merely apply a law of nature via a series of routine steps and it has created uncertainty around the ability to patent certain biomarker-related method claims. Additionally, on June 13, 2013 in Association for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad Genetics, Inc., the Court held that claims to isolated genomic DNA are not patentable, but claims to complementary DNA (cDNA) molecules were held to be valid. The effect of the decision on patents for other isolated natural products is uncertain. Depending on decisions by the U.S. Congress, the federal courts, the USPTO, and foreign courts and patent offices, the laws and regulations governing patents could change in unpredictable ways that would weaken our ability to obtain new patents or to enforce our existing patents and patents that we might obtain in the future.. 53. Restrictions on our patent rights relating to our therapeutic candidates may limit our ability to prevent third parties from competing against us.. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to prevent third parties from infringing upon our proprietary rights. Composition-of-matter patents on the biological or chemical active pharmaceutical ingredient are generally considered to be the strongest form of intellectual property protection for pharmaceutical products, as such patents provide protection without regard to any method of use. We have filed composition-of-matter patent applications for all of our therapeutic candidates. However, we cannot be certain that the claims in our patent applications to inventions covering our therapeutic candidates will be considered patentable by the USPTO and courts in the United States or by the patent offices and courts in foreign countries.. In addition to composition-of-matter patents and patent applications, we also have filed method-of-use patent applications. This type of patent protects the use of the product only for the specified method. However, this type of patent does not prevent a competitor from making and marketing a product that is identical to our product for an indication that is outside the scope of the patented method. Moreover, even if these competitors do not actively promote their product for our targeted indication, physicians may prescribe these products \"off-label.\" Although off-label prescriptions may infringe or contribute to the infringement of method-of-use patents, the practice is common and such infringement is difficult to prevent or prosecute.. Although we have a number of issued patents and numerous patent applications pending before the USPTO and foreign patent offices, the resulting patent protection may lapse before we manage to obtain commercial value from them, which might result in increased competition and materially affect our position in the market. Even if our patents do not lapse before we are able to obtain at least some commercial value from them, the life of any patent, and the protection it affords, is limited. Although the term of a U.S. patent may be increased to compensate for certain delays caused by the USPTO, this increase may also be reduced or offset entirely by delays caused by the patent applicant during patent prosecution. Once the patent life has expired for any of our therapeutic candidates, we may be open to competition from biosimilars, which may potentially reduce our market share, and our business and results of operations will be adversely affected.. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights throughout the world.. Filing, prosecuting and defending patents on all of our therapeutic candidates and technologies throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection to develop their own products and further, may export otherwise infringing products to territories where we have patent protection, but where enforcement is not as strong as that in the United States. These products may compete with our future products in jurisdictions where we do not have any issued patents and our patent claims or other intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent them from so competing.. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to biopharmaceuticals, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents or marketing of competing products in violation of our proprietary rights generally. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial cost and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. Furthermore, such proceedings could put our patents at risk of being invalidated, held unenforceable, or interpreted narrowly, could put our other patent applications at risk of not issuing and could provoke third parties to assert counter claims of infringement or misappropriation against us. We may not be able to obtain injunctive relief in foreign jurisdictions to prevent ongoing infringement while we enforce our patent rights and we may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially meaningful. Accordingly, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights around the world may be inadequate to obtain a significant commercial advantage from our intellectual property.. 54. If we fail to comply with our obligations in our intellectual property licenses with third parties, we could lose license rights that are important to our business.. We are a party to intellectual property license agreements with third parties, including with respect to navicixizumab (anti-DLL4/VEGF bispecific, OMP-305B83) and the production of all of our biologic therapeutic candidates, and expect to enter into additional license agreements in the future. Our existing license agreements impose, and we expect that our future license agreements will impose, various diligence, milestone payment, royalty, insurance, indemnification and other obligations on us. If we fail to comply with these obligations, our licensors may have the right to terminate these agreements, in which event we, or our collaborators, might not be able to develop and market any therapeutic candidate that is covered by these agreements. Termination of these licenses or reduction or elimination of our licensed rights may result in our having to negotiate new or reinstated licenses with less favorable terms, or in the inability to obtain access to the licensed technology at all. The occurrence of such events could materially harm our business.. Obtaining and maintaining our patent protection depends on compliance with various procedural, document submission, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements.. The USPTO and various foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other provisions during the patent application process. In addition, periodic maintenance fees on any issued patent are due to be paid to the USPTO and foreign patent agencies in several stages over the lifetime of a patent. There are situations in which noncompliance can result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. Noncompliance events that could result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application include failure to respond to official actions within prescribed time limits, non-payment of fees, and failure to properly legalize and submit formal documents. In the event that noncompliance leads to abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application, competitors might be able to enter the market earlier than would otherwise have been the case, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. If our trademarks and trade names are not adequately protected, then we may not be able to build name recognition in our markets of interest and our business may be adversely affected.. Our registered or unregistered trademarks or trade names may be challenged, infringed, circumvented or declared generic or determined to be infringing on other marks. Litigation may be necessary to protect our rights to our trademarks or trade names. Such litigation may be costly and be a distraction to management. Also, an adverse result in any such litigation proceedings could put our trademarks or trade names at risk. We may not be able to protect our rights to these trademarks and trade names, which we need to build name recognition by potential partners or customers in our markets of interest. Over the long term, if we are unable to establish name recognition based on our trademarks and trade names, then we may not be able to compete effectively and our business may be adversely affected.. We may be subject to claims that we or our employees or consultants have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of our employees' or consultants' former employers or their clients. These claims may be costly to defend and if we do not successfully do so, we may be required to pay monetary damages and may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel.. Many of our employees were previously employed at universities or biopharmaceutical or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel or their work product could hamper our ability to commercialize, or prevent us from commercializing our therapeutic candidates, which could severely harm our business. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management.. 55. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, our business and competitive position would be harmed.. In addition to seeking patents for some of our technology and therapeutic candidates, we also rely on trade secrets, including unpatented know-how, technology and other proprietary information, to maintain our competitive position. We seek to protect these trade secrets, in part, by entering into non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with parties who have access to them, such as our employees, corporate collaborators, outside scientific collaborators, contract manufacturers, consultants, advisors and other third parties. We also enter into confidentiality and invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and consultants that obligate them to assign their inventions to us. Despite these efforts, any of these parties may breach the agreements and disclose our proprietary information, including our trade secrets, and we may not be able to obtain adequate remedies for such breaches. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally disclosed or misappropriated a trade secret is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, some courts inside and outside the United States, including in foreign jurisdictions, are less willing or unwilling to protect trade secrets. If any of our trade secrets were to be lawfully obtained or independently developed by a competitor, we would have no right to prevent them from using that technology or information to compete with us. If any of our trade secrets were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our competitive position would be harmed.. Risks Related to Government Regulation. The regulatory approval process is expensive, time-consuming and uncertain and may prevent us or our collaboration partners from obtaining approvals for the commercialization of some or all of our therapeutic candidates.. The development, research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, approval, selling, import, export, marketing and distribution of drug and biologic products are subject to extensive and evolving regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities in the United States, principally by the FDA, and foreign regulatory authorities, which regulations differ from country to country. Neither we nor our collaboration partners are permitted to market our therapeutic candidates in the United States until we receive regulatory approval from the FDA. Our therapeutic candidates are subject to regulation as biologics, and we will require approval of a BLA from the FDA before we may market our therapeutic candidates. Neither we nor our collaboration partners have submitted an application for or received marketing approval for any of our therapeutic candidates. Obtaining approval of a BLA can be a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process. In addition, failure to comply with FDA and other applicable U.S. and foreign regulatory requirements may subject us to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including:. •  warning letters;. •  civil and criminal penalties;. •  injunctions;. •  withdrawal of approved products;. •  product seizure or detention;. •  product recalls;. •  total or partial suspension of production; and. •  refusal to approve pending BLAs or supplements to approved BLAs.. Prior to receiving approval to commercialize any of our therapeutic candidates in the United States or abroad, we and our collaboration partners must demonstrate with substantial evidence from well-controlled clinical trials, and to the satisfaction of the FDA and other regulatory authorities abroad, that such therapeutic candidates are safe and effective for their intended uses. Preclinical testing and clinical trials are long, expensive and uncertain processes. We may spend several years completing our testing for any particular therapeutic candidate, and failure can occur at any stage. Negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could also cause the FDA or us to terminate a clinical trial or require that we repeat it or conduct additional clinical trials. Additionally, data obtained from preclinical studies and clinical trials can be interpreted in different ways and the FDA or other regulatory authorities may interpret the results of our studies and trials less favorably than we do. Even if we and our collaboration partners believe the preclinical or clinical data for our therapeutic candidates are. 56. promising, such data may not be sufficient to support approval by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Administering any of our therapeutic candidates to humans may produce undesirable side effects, which could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of our therapeutic candidates and result in the FDA or other regulatory authorities denying approval of our therapeutic candidates for any or all targeted indications.. Regulatory approval of our therapeutic candidates is not guaranteed, and the approval process is expensive and may take several years. The FDA and foreign regulatory entities also have substantial discretion in the approval process. Despite the time and expense exerted, failure can occur at any stage, and we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon or repeat clinical trials, or perform additional preclinical studies and clinical trials. The number of preclinical studies and clinical trials that will be required for FDA approval varies depending on the therapeutic candidate, the disease or condition that the therapeutic candidate is designed to address, and the regulations applicable to any particular therapeutic candidate. The FDA can delay, limit or deny approval of a therapeutic candidate for many reasons, including, but not limited to, the following:. •  a therapeutic candidate may not be deemed safe or effective;. •  FDA officials may not find the data from preclinical studies and clinical trials sufficient;. •  the FDA might not approve our or our third-party manufacturer's processes or facilities; or. •  the FDA may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations.. If any of our therapeutic candidates fails to demonstrate safety and efficacy in clinical trials or does not gain regulatory approval, our business and results of operations will be materially and adversely harmed.. Even if we or our collaboration partners receive regulatory approval for a therapeutic candidate, we and our collaboration partners will be subject to ongoing regulatory obligations and continued regulatory review, which may result in significant additional expense and subject us to penalties if we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements.. Once regulatory approval has been granted, the approved product and its manufacturer are subject to continual review by the FDA and/or non-U.S. regulatory authorities. Any regulatory approval that we or our collaboration partners receive for our therapeutic candidates may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing follow-up studies to monitor the safety and efficacy of the product. In addition, if the FDA and/or non-U.S. regulatory authorities approve any of our therapeutic candidates, we will be subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements by the FDA and other regulatory authorities with regard to the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping for our products. Manufacturers of our products are required to comply with cGMP regulations, which include requirements related to quality control and quality assurance as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Further, regulatory authorities must approve these manufacturing facilities before they can be used to manufacture our products, and these facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities for compliance with cGMP regulations. If we, a collaboration partner or a regulatory authority discovers previously unknown problems with a product, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, a regulatory authority may impose restrictions on that product, the collaboration partner, the manufacturer or us, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market or suspension of manufacturing. If we, our therapeutic candidates or the manufacturing facilities for our therapeutic candidates fail to comply with regulatory requirements of the FDA and/or other non-U.S. regulatory authorities, we could be subject to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including:. •  warning letters;. •  civil or criminal penalties;. •  injunctions;. •  suspension of or withdrawal of regulatory approval;. •  suspension of any ongoing clinical trials;. 57. •  voluntary or mandatory product recalls and publicity requirements;. •  refusal to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new products or supplements to approved applications filed by us;. •  restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; or. •  seizure or detention of our products or import bans.. The regulatory requirements and policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted for which we may also be required to comply and that could prevent, limit or delay regulatory approval of our therapeutic candidates. For example, in December 2016, the 21st Century Cures Act, or Cures Act, was signed into law.  The Cures Act, among other things, is intended to modernize the regulation of biologics and spur innovation, but its ultimate implementation is unclear. If we or our collaboration partners are slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing requirements or the adoption of new requirements or policies, or if we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we or our collaboration partners, as applicable, may lose any marketing approval that we may have obtained and will not be permitted to market our future products, which would adversely affect our business, prospects and ability to achieve or sustain profitability.. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative or executive action, either in the United States or abroad.  For example, certain policies of the Trump administration may impact our business and industry.  Namely, the Trump administration has taken several executive actions, including the issuance of a number of Executive Orders, that could impose significant burdens on, or otherwise materially delay, FDA's ability to engage in routine regulatory and oversight activities such as implementing statutes through rulemaking, issuance of guidance, and review and approval of marketing applications. It is difficult to predict how these executive actions, including the Executive Orders, will be implemented, and the extent to which they will impact the FDA's ability to exercise its regulatory authority.  If these executive actions impose constraints on FDA's ability to engage in oversight and implementation activities in the normal course, our business may be negatively impacted.. The availability of adequate third-party coverage and reimbursement for newly approved products is uncertain, and failure to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors could impede our ability to market any future products we may develop and could limit our ability to generate revenue.. There is significant uncertainty related to the third-party payor coverage and reimbursement of newly approved medical products. The commercial success of our future products in both domestic and international markets depends on whether such third-party coverage and reimbursement is available for our future products. Governmental payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, health maintenance organizations and other third-party payors are increasingly attempting to manage their healthcare expenditures by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of newly approved drugs and biologics and, as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate reimbursement for our future products. These payors may not view our future products as cost-effective, and coverage and reimbursement may not be available to our customers or may not be sufficient to allow our future products to be marketed on a competitive basis. Third-party payors are exerting increasing influence on decisions regarding the use of, and coverage and reimbursement levels for, particular treatments. Such third-party payors, including Medicare, are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services, and many third-party payors limit or delay coverage and reimbursement for newly approved healthcare products. In particular, third-party payors may limit the covered indications. Cost-control initiatives could cause us to decrease the price we might establish for products, which could result in lower than anticipated product revenues. If we decrease the prices for our therapeutic candidates because of competitive pressures or if governmental and other third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage or reimbursement, our prospects for revenue and profitability will suffer.. Failure to obtain regulatory approvals in foreign jurisdictions will prevent us from marketing our therapeutic candidates internationally.. We may seek a distribution and marketing partner for our unpartnered programs outside North America and may market future products in international markets. In order to market our therapeutic candidates in the European Economic Area, or EEA (which is comprised of the 28 Member States of the EU plus Norway, Iceland and. 58. Liechtenstein), and many other foreign jurisdictions, we or our collaboration partners must obtain separate regulatory approvals. More concretely, in the EEA, medicinal products can only be commercialized after obtaining a Marketing Authorization, or MA. There are two types of marketing authorizations:. •  The Community MA, which is issued by the European Commission through the Centralized Procedure, based on the opinion of the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use of the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, and which is valid throughout the entire territory of the EEA. The Centralized Procedure is mandatory for certain types of products, such as biotechnology medicinal products, orphan medicinal products, and medicinal products indicated for the treatment of AIDS, cancer, neurodegenerative disorders, diabetes, auto-immune and viral diseases. The Centralized Procedure is optional for products containing a new active substance not yet authorized in the EEA, or for products that constitute a significant therapeutic, scientific or technical innovation or which are in the interest of public health in the EU.. •  National MAs, which are issued by the competent authorities of the Member States of the EEA and only cover their respective territory, are available for products not falling within the mandatory scope of the Centralized Procedure. Where a product has already been authorized for marketing in a Member State of the EEA, this National MA can be recognized in another Member State through the Mutual Recognition Procedure. If the product has not received a National MA in any Member State at the time of application, it can be approved simultaneously in various Member States through the Decentralized Procedure.. Under the above described procedures, before granting the MA, the EMA or the competent authorities of the Member States of the EEA make an assessment of the risk-benefit balance of the product on the basis of scientific criteria concerning its quality, safety and efficacy.. We have had limited interactions with foreign regulatory authorities, and the approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional clinical testing, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. Clinical trials conducted in one country may not be accepted by regulatory authorities in other countries. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one or more foreign regulatory authorities does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or by the FDA. However, a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in others. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. We or our collaboration partners may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. We or our collaboration partners may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and even if we or our collaboration partners file, we may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our therapeutic candidates in any market.. Healthcare reform measures could hinder or prevent our therapeutic candidates' commercial success.. In the United States, there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of legislative and regulatory changes and proposed changes to the healthcare system that could affect our future revenues and profitability and the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers. Federal and state lawmakers regularly propose and, at times, enact legislation that results in significant changes to the healthcare system, some of which are intended to contain or reduce the costs of medical products and services. For example, in March 2010, the U.S. Congress passed and President Obama signed into law the Affordable Care Act. It contains a number of provisions, including those governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, reimbursement changes and fraud and abuse measures, all of which have impacted existing government healthcare programs and have resulted in the development of new programs. The Affordable Care Act, among other things:. •  imposed a non-deductible annual fee on pharmaceutical manufacturers or importers who sell \"branded prescription drugs\";. •  increased the minimum level of Medicaid rebates payable by manufacturers of brand-name drugs from 15.1% to 23.1%;. •  extended the rebate program to individuals enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations;. 59. •  addressed a new methodology by which rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program are calculated for drugs that are inhaled, infused, instilled, implanted or injected;. •  expanded the eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs by, among other things, allowing states to offer Medicaid coverage to additional individuals and by adding new mandatory eligibility categories for certain individuals with income at or below 133% of the federal poverty level, thereby potentially increasing a manufacturer's Medicaid rebate liability;. •  expanded access to commercial health insurance coverage through new state-based health insurance marketplaces, or exchanges; and. •  required manufacturers to participate in a coverage gap discount program, under which they must agree to offer 50% point-of-sale discounts, which, through subsequent legislative amendments, were increased to 70%, off negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturer's outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D.. Since its enactment, there have been judicial and Congressional challenges to certain aspects of the Affordable Care Act. We expect that the current presidential administration and U.S. Congress will likely continue to seek to modify, repeal, or otherwise invalidate all or certain provisions of, the Affordable Care Act. Most recently, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was enacted, which, among other things, removes penalties for not complying with the Affordable Care Act's individual mandate to carry health insurance. There is still uncertainty with respect to the impact President Trump's administration and the U.S. Congress may have, if any, and any changes will likely take time to unfold, and could have an impact on coverage and reimbursement for healthcare items and services covered by plans that were authorized by the Affordable Care Act. However, we cannot predict the ultimate content, timing or effect of any healthcare reform legislation or the impact of potential legislation on us.. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted in the United States since the Affordable Care Act was enacted. These changes include aggregate reductions of Medicare payments to providers of 2 percent per fiscal year, which went into effect on April 1, 2013, and, due to subsequent legislative amendments, will remain in effect through 2025 unless additional Congressional action is taken. In January 2013, the American Taxpayer Relief Act was enacted, which, among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to several types of providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. These new laws may result in additional reductions in Medicare and other health care funding, which could have a material adverse effect on our customers and accordingly, our financial operations.. Moreover, payment methodologies, including payment for companion diagnostics, may be subject to changes in healthcare legislation and regulatory initiatives. For example, the CMS has begun bundling the Medicare payments for certain laboratory tests ordered while a patient received services in a hospital outpatient setting and, in 2018, the CMS began paying for clinical laboratory services based on a weighted average of reported prices that private payors, Medicare Advantage plans, and Medicaid Managed Care plans pay for laboratory services. In addition, recently, there has been heightened governmental scrutiny over the manner in which manufacturers set prices for their marketed products, which has resulted in several Congressional inquiries and proposed bills designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to product pricing, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, and reform government program reimbursement methodologies for drug products. For example, the 21st Century Cures Act changed the reimbursement methodology for infusion drugs and biologics furnished through durable medical equipment in an attempt to remedy over- and underpayment of certain products. Individual states in the United States have also become increasingly active in implementing regulations designed to control pharmaceutical product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, discounts, restrictions on certain product access and marketing cost disclosure and transparency measures, and, in some cases, designed to encourage importation from other countries and bulk purchasing. We expect that additional state and federal healthcare reform measures will be adopted in the future, any of which could limit the amount that federal and state governments will pay for healthcare products and services, which could result in reduced demand for our therapeutic candidates or companion diagnostics or additional pricing pressures.. There likely will continue to be legislative and regulatory proposals at the federal and state levels directed at containing or lowering the cost of health care. We cannot predict the initiatives that may be adopted in the future or. 60. their full impact. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of healthcare services to contain or reduce costs of health care may adversely affect:. •  our ability to set a price we believe is fair for our products;. •  our ability to generate revenues and achieve or maintain profitability; and. •  the availability of capital.. In light of widely publicized events concerning the safety risk of certain drug products, regulatory authorities, members of Congress, the Governmental Accounting Office, medical professionals and the general public have raised concerns about potential drug safety issues. These events have resulted in the withdrawal of drug products, revisions to drug labeling that further limit use of the drug products and establishment of risk management programs that may, for instance, restrict distribution of drug products. The increased attention to drug safety issues may result in a more cautious approach by the FDA to clinical trials and the drug approval process. Data from clinical trials may receive greater scrutiny with respect to safety, which may make the FDA or other regulatory authorities more likely to terminate clinical trials before completion, or require longer or additional clinical trials that may result in substantial additional expense and a delay or failure in obtaining approval or approval for a more limited indication than originally sought. In, addition, because of the serious public health risks of high profile adverse safety events with certain products, the FDA may require, as a condition of approval, costly risk management programs which may include safety surveillance, restricted distribution and use, patient education, enhanced labeling, special packaging or labeling, expedited reporting of certain adverse events, preapproval of promotional materials and restrictions on direct-to-consumer advertising.. Our therapeutic candidates for which we intend to seek approval as biologic products may face competition from biosimilars and may face such competition sooner than anticipated.. With the enactment of the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009, or BPCIA, as part of the Affordable Care Act, an abbreviated pathway for the approval of biosimilar and interchangeable biological products was created. The abbreviated regulatory pathway establishes legal authority for the FDA to review and approve biosimilar biologics, including the possible designation of a biosimilar as \"interchangeable,\" based on their similarity to existing brand product. Under the BPCIA, an application for a biosimilar product cannot be submitted to the FDA until four years following the date that the reference product was first licensed by the FDA, and the approval of a biosimilar product may not be made effective by the FDA until 12 years from the date on which the reference product was first licensed. During this 12-year period of exclusivity, another company may still market a competing version of the reference product if the FDA approves a full BLA for the competing product containing the sponsor's own preclinical data and data from adequate and well-controlled clinical trials to demonstrate the safety, purity and potency of their product. The 12 years of data exclusivity afforded to biologics under the BPCIA does not prevent another company from developing a product that is highly similar to the innovative product, generating its own data, and seeking approval. Data exclusivity only assures that another company cannot rely upon data within the innovator's application to support the biosimilar product's application. The law is complex and is subject to continuing interpretation and implementation by the FDA. As a result, its ultimate impact, implementation and meaning are subject to continuing uncertainty. The FDA has approved few biosimilar products to date, however, reflecting that the Agency is continuing to move forward with implementation and application of a regulatory pathway for biosimilars despite some ongoing uncertainty surrounding the specifics of the biosimilar regulatory pathway. The FDA's processes for biosimilars could have a material adverse effect on the future commercial prospects for our biological products.. We believe that any of our therapeutic candidates approved as a biological product under a BLA should qualify for the 12-year period of exclusivity. However, there is a risk that the U.S. Congress could amend the BPCIA to significantly shorten this exclusivity period or take other measures to reduce or eliminate periods of exclusivity. There is also a risk that the FDA will not consider our therapeutic candidates to be reference products for competing products, potentially creating the opportunity for competition sooner than anticipated. Moreover, the extent to which a biosimilar, once approved, will be substituted for any one of our reference products in a way that is similar to traditional generic substitution for non-biological products is not yet clear, and will depend on a number of marketplace and regulatory factors that are still developing.. 61. In addition, foreign regulatory authorities may also provide for exclusivity periods for approved biological products. For example, biological products in Europe may be eligible for a 10-year period of exclusivity. Biosimilar products have been approved under the centralized procedure since 2006. The pathway allows sponsors of a biosimilar product to seek and obtain regulatory approval based in part on the clinical trial data of an originator product to which the biosimilar product has been demonstrated to be \"similar.\" In many cases, this allows biosimilar products to be brought to market without conducting the full suite of clinical trials typically required of originators. It is unclear whether we would face competition to our products in European markets sooner than anticipated.. If we fail to comply with healthcare regulations, we could face substantial penalties and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Even though we do not and will not control referrals of healthcare services or bill directly to Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payors, certain federal and state healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse and patients' rights are and will be applicable to our business. We could be subject to healthcare fraud and abuse and patient privacy regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. The regulations that may affect our ability to operate include, without limitation:. •  the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, any person from knowingly and willfully offering, soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce either the referral of an individual, for an item or service or the purchasing or ordering of a good or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. A person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. In addition, the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims statutes;. •  the federal False Claims Act, which prohibits, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, false claims, or knowingly using false statements, to obtain payment from the federal government, and which may apply to entities that provide coding and billing advice to customers;. •  federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters. Similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of these statutes or specific intent to violate them in order to have committed a violation;. •  the federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which requires manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children's Health Insurance Program (with certain exceptions) to report annually to the government information related to payments or other \"transfers of value\" made to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors) and teaching hospitals, and applicable manufacturers and group purchasing organizations to report annually to the government ownership and investment interests held by physicians (as defined above) and their immediate family members and payments or other \"transfers of value\" to such physician owners. Manufacturers are required to report such data to the government by the 90th calendar day of each year;. •  the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, which governs the conduct of certain electronic healthcare transactions and protects the security and privacy of protected health information; and. •  state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers; state laws that require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government or otherwise restrict payments that may be made to healthcare providers; state laws that require drug manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers or pricing information and marketing expenditures; and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which. 62. differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts.. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. Moreover, achieving and sustaining compliance with applicable federal and state privacy, security and fraud laws may prove costly.. Risks Related to the Securities Market and Investment in Our Common Stock. The price of our common stock may be volatile, and you may not be able to resell your shares at prices that are attractive to you.. There was no public market for our common stock prior to our initial public offering in July 2013, the trading volume of our common stock on The NASDAQ Global Select Market has been limited since then, and there can be no assurance that an active and liquid trading market for our common stock will be sustained. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in our company will sustain an active trading market on The NASDAQ Global Select Market or otherwise or how liquid that market might become. If an active and liquid market is not sustained, it may be difficult for stockholders to sell their shares of common stock at prices that are attractive to them, or at all. Further, an inactive market may also impair our ability to raise capital by selling shares of our common stock and may impair our ability to enter into strategic partnerships or acquire companies or products, therapeutic candidates or technologies by using our shares of common stock as consideration. Stockholders may also be unable to sell their shares of common stock at prices that are attractive to them due to fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. Factors that could cause volatility in the market price of our common stock include, but are not limited to:. •  ability to commercialize or obtain regulatory approval for our therapeutic candidates, or delays in commercializing or obtaining regulatory approval;. •  results from, or any delays in, clinical trial programs relating to our therapeutic candidates, including the ongoing and planned clinical trials for navicixizumab (anti-DLL4/VEGF bispecific, OMP-305B83), anti-TIGIT (OMP-313M32), GITRL-Fc (OMP - 336B11), and other therapeutic candidates;. •  failure to achieve anticipated research and development milestones and obtain the applicable milestone payments under our agreements with our collaboration partners, on our anticipated timelines or at all;. •  any need to suspend or discontinue clinical trials due to side effects or other safety risks, or any need to conduct studies on the long-term effects associated with the use of our therapeutic candidates;. •  announcements relating to future collaborations; our existing collaboration with  Celgene, including decisions regarding the exercise by Celgene of its options or any termination by Celgene of any development program under its partnerships with us; or our small molecule program collaboration with Bayer, including the advancement or non-advancement of the small molecule programs into further development and potential commercialization by Bayer;. •  manufacturing issues related to our therapeutic candidates for clinical trials or future products for commercialization;. •  commercial success and market acceptance of our therapeutic candidates following regulatory approval;. •  undesirable side effects caused by therapeutic candidates after they have entered the market;. •  ability to discover, develop and commercialize additional therapeutic candidates;. •  success of our competitors in discovering, developing or commercializing products;. •  strategic transactions undertaken by us;. •  additions or departures of key personnel;. 63. •  product liability claims related to our clinical trials or therapeutic candidates;. •  prevailing economic conditions;. •  business disruptions caused by external factors, such as natural disasters and other crises;. •  disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights;. •  FDA or other U.S. or foreign regulatory actions affecting us or our industry;. •  healthcare reform measures in the United States;. •  sales of our common stock by our officers, directors or significant stockholders;. •  future sales or issuances of equity or debt securities by us;. •  fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; and. •  the issuance of new or changed securities analysts' reports or recommendations regarding us.. In addition, the stock markets in general, and the markets for pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that have been often unrelated to the operating performance of the issuer. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price or liquidity of our common stock. In the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against the issuer. If any of our stockholders were to bring such a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit and the attention of our management would be diverted from the operation of our business.. Together with their affiliates, our directors and management own a significant percentage of our stock and will be able to exert significant control over matters subject to stockholder approval.. Based on the beneficial ownership of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2017, our officers and directors, together with their respective affiliates, beneficially own approximately 22.5% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, these stockholders will continue to have significant influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transaction. The interests of these stockholders may not be the same as or may even conflict with your interests. For example, these stockholders could delay or prevent a change of control of our company, even if such a change of control would benefit our other stockholders, which could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company or our assets and might affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. The significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock due to investors' perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise.. We are an \"emerging growth company\" and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the JOBS Act, and may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not \"emerging growth companies\" including not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. In addition, Section 102 of the JOBS Act also provides that an \"emerging growth company\" can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, for complying with new or revised accounting standards. An \"emerging growth company\" can therefore delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise. 64. apply to private companies. However, we chose to \"opt out\" of such extended transition period, and as a result, we will comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that our decision to opt out of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards is irrevocable.. Future sales of our common stock or securities convertible or exchangeable for our common stock may depress our stock price.. If our existing stockholders or holders of our options or warrants sell, or indicate an intention to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. The perception in the market that these sales may occur could also cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. As of December 31, 2017, we have a total of 38,212,505 shares of common stock outstanding.. Based on the number of shares subject to outstanding awards under our 2004 Stock Incentive Plan and 2013 Equity Incentive Award Plan, or available for issuance under our 2013 Equity Incentive Award Plan and Employee Stock Purchase Plan as of December 31, 2017, 7,909,008  shares of common stock that are either subject to outstanding options, outstanding but subject to vesting, or reserved for future issuance under our employee benefit plans will be eligible for sale in the public market, subject to, in the case of shares issued to directors, executive officers and other affiliates, the volume limitations under Rule 144 under the Securities Act. If these additional shares of common stock are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline.. Approximately 4.4 million shares of our common stock are entitled to rights with respect to the registration of their shares under the Securities Act. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in the shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act, except for shares purchased by affiliates. In addition, our directors, executive officers and other affiliates may establish, and certain executive officers, directors and affiliates have established, programmed selling plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Exchange Act, for the purpose of effecting sales of our common stock. Any sales of securities by these stockholders, or the perception that those sales may occur, including the entry into such programmed selling plans, could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock.. Future sales and issuances of equity and debt securities could result in additional dilution to our stockholders and could place restrictions on our operations and assets, and such securities could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our common stock.. We expect that significant additional capital will be needed in the future to continue our planned operations. To raise capital, we may from time to time issue additional shares of common stock at a discount from the then-current trading price of our common stock. As a result, our common stockholders would experience immediate dilution upon the purchase of any shares of our common stock sold at such discount. For example, on August 23, 2016, we closed the sale of an aggregate of 6,325,000 shares of our common stock at a public offering price of $10.00 per share, a discount from the then-current trading price of our common stock. In addition, as opportunities present themselves, we may enter into financing or similar arrangements in the future, including the issuance of debt securities, preferred stock or common stock. Whether or not we issue additional shares of common stock at a discount, any issuance of common stock will, and any issuance of other equity securities or of options, warrants or other rights to purchase common stock may, result in additional dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders and could cause our stock price to decline. New investors could also gain rights, preference and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Debt securities may also contain covenants that restrict our operational flexibility or impose liens or other restrictions on our assets, which could also cause the price of our common stock to decline.. Pursuant to our equity incentive plan, we are authorized to grant equity-based incentive awards to our employees, directors and consultants. As of December 31, 2017, there were 606,463 shares of our common stock reserved for future issuance under our 2013 Equity Incentive Award Plan, or the 2013 Plan. The number of shares of our common stock reserved for issuance under our 2013 Plan will be increased (i) from time to time by the number of shares of our common stock forfeited upon the expiration, cancellation, forfeiture, cash settlement or other termination of awards under our 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, or the 2004 Plan, and (ii) annually on the first day of the. 65. year by the lesser of (x) a number of additional shares of our common stock representing 4% of our then-outstanding shares of common stock on the last day of the immediately preceding fiscal year; (y) 1,500,000 shares of our common stock; and (z) such smaller number of shares as determined by our board of directors. As a result of this increase, an additional 1,500,000 shares of our common stock became available for future issuance under our 2013 Plan as of January 1, 2018. Future option grants and issuances of common stock under our 2013 Plan may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. In addition, pursuant to our 2013 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, or ESPP, as of December 31, 2017, 1,205,870 shares of our common stock were available for issuance to our employees. The number of shares of our common stock reserved for issuance under our ESPP will be increased annually on the first day of the year by the lesser of (x) a number of additional shares of our common stock representing 1% of our then-outstanding shares of common stock on the last day of the immediately preceding fiscal year; (y) 350,000 shares of our common stock; and (z) such number of shares as determined by our board of directors. As a result of this increase, an additional 350,000 shares of our common stock became available for future issuance under our ESPP as of January 1, 2018. Future issuances of common stock under our ESPP may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly or may fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, each of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate or decline.. We expect our operating results to be subject to quarterly fluctuations. Our net loss and other operating results will be affected by numerous factors, including:. •  variations in the level of expenses related to our therapeutic candidates or future development programs;. •  if any of our therapeutic candidates receives regulatory approval, the level of underlying demand for these therapeutic candidates and wholesalers' buying patterns;. •  addition or termination of clinical trials or funding support;. •  our execution of any collaborative, licensing or similar arrangements, and the timing of payments we may make or receive under these arrangements or existing such arrangements, such as our collaboration agreement with  Celgene and our small molecule program collaboration with Bayer;. •  any intellectual property infringement lawsuit or opposition, interference, or cancellation proceeding in which we may become involved; and. •  regulatory developments affecting our therapeutic candidates or those of our competitors.. If our quarterly operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Furthermore, any quarterly fluctuations in our operating results may, in turn, cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially. We believe that quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance.. Provisions of our charter documents or Delaware law could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and could make it more difficult for you to change management.. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempt by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult to replace or remove our board of directors. These provisions include:. •  a classified board of directors so that not all directors are elected at one time;. •  a prohibition on stockholder action through written consent;. 66. •  a requirement that special meetings of stockholders be called only by the board of directors, the chairman of the board of directors, the chief executive officer or, in the absence of a chief executive officer, the president;. •  an advance notice requirement for stockholder proposals and nominations;. •  the authority of our board of directors to issue preferred stock with such terms as our board of directors may determine; and. •  a requirement of approval of not less than 66 2/3% of all outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote to amend any bylaws by stockholder action, or to amend specific provisions of our certificate of incorporation.. In addition, Delaware law prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person who, together with its affiliates, owns or within the last three years has owned 15% or more of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Furthermore, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation specifies that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the sole and exclusive forum for most legal actions involving actions brought against us by stockholders. We believe this provision benefits us by providing increased consistency in the application of Delaware law by chancellors particularly experienced in resolving corporate disputes, efficient administration of cases on a more expedited schedule relative to other forums and protection against the burdens of multi-forum litigation. However, the provision may have the effect of discouraging lawsuits against our directors and officers. The enforceability of similar choice of forum provisions in other companies' certificates of incorporation has been challenged in legal proceedings, and it is possible that, in connection with any applicable action brought against us, a court could find the choice of forum provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in such action.. Provisions in our charter and other provisions of Delaware law could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock.. Our employment agreements with our officers may require us to pay severance benefits to any of those persons who are terminated in connection with a change of control of us, which could harm our financial condition or results.. Our officers are parties to employment agreements providing for aggregate cash payments of up to approximately $4.1 million for severance and other benefits and acceleration of vesting of stock options with a value of up to approximately $8.2 million (as of December 31, 2017) in the event of a termination of employment in connection with a change of control of us. The accelerated vesting of options could result in dilution to our existing stockholders and harm the market price of our common stock. The payment of these severance benefits could harm our financial condition and results. In addition, these potential severance payments may discourage or prevent third parties from seeking a business combination with us.. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our capital stock in the foreseeable future; therefore capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future.. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our capital stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. In addition, the terms of any future debt financing arrangement may contain terms prohibiting or limiting the amount of dividends that may be declared or paid on our common stock. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future.. 67. If securities or industry analysts publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, or fail to publish research about our business regularly, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will depend, in part, on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. A limited number of securities and industry analysts currently publish research on our company. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. In addition, if our operating results fail to meet the forecast of analysts, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of the analysts covering us or our business cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which might cause our stock price and trading volume to decline.. Changes in, or interpretations of, accounting rules and regulations could result in unfavorable accounting charges or require us to change our compensation policies.. Accounting methods and policies for biopharmaceutical companies, including policies governing revenue recognition, research and development and related expenses and accounting for stock-based compensation, are subject to further review, interpretation and guidance from relevant accounting authorities, including the SEC. Changes to, or interpretations of, accounting methods or policies may require us to reclassify, restate or otherwise change or revise our financial statements, including those contained in this filing."
