[1] "Item 1A.   Risk Factors. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks are realized, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. The risks described below are not the only risks facing the Company. Risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects.. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition and Capital Requirements. We have a limited operating history, have incurred significant losses and negative cash flows from operations since our inception and expect to continue to incur significant losses and negative cash flows from operations for at least the next 12 months.. We are a biopharmaceutical company with a limited operating history and we have incurred net losses in each year since our inception in January 5, 2010, including net losses of<U+2009> $38.8 million and $53.3 million for the years ended September 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively.. We have devoted substantially all of our financial resources to identify, develop and manufacture our product candidates, including conducting, among other things, analytical characterization, process development and manufacture, formulation and clinical trials, regulatory filing and communication activities and providing general and administrative support for these operations. To date, we have financed our operations primarily through the sale of equity securities and debt financings, as well as to a limited degree, payments under our co-development and license agreements with Zhejiang Huahai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., or Huahai, Laboratorios Liomont, S.A. de C.V., or Liomont, IPCA Laboratories Limited, or IPCA and GMS Tenshi Holdings Pte, Limited or GMS Tenshi. The amount of our future net losses will depend, in part, on our ability to generate revenue from providing contract development and manufacturing services, the rate of our future expenditures and our ability to obtain funding through equity or debt financing or strategic licensing or co-development collaborations.. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses and increasing operating losses for at least the next 12 months. We anticipate that our expenses will increase substantially if and as we:. •. invest in, and maintain, our development and manufacturing facilities and infrastructure;. •. continue preclinical studies and clinical development of our identified product candidates;. •. initiate additional preclinical, clinical or other studies for our product candidates;. •. advance our programs into larger global clinical trials;. •. establish a sales and marketing infrastructure to commercialize any contract development and manufacturing services we may provide;. •. change or add clinical research service providers, testing laboratories, device suppliers, legal service providers or other vendors or suppliers;. •. seek regulatory and marketing approvals for our product candidates that successfully complete clinical trials;. •. establish a sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure to commercialize any products for which we may obtain marketing approval;. •. seek to identify, assess, acquire or develop other biosimilar or other product candidates that may be complementary to our product candidates;. •. make upfront, milestone, royalty or other payments under any license agreements;. •. seek to create, maintain, protect and expand our intellectual property portfolio;. 28. TABLE OF CONTENTS. •. engage in litigation, including patent litigation, with originator companies or others that may hold patents to the reference products for which we are developing biosimilars, or to methods of manufacture or methods of use we may employ in the production of our biosimilars;. •. seek to attract and retain skilled personnel;. •. create additional infrastructure to support our operations as a public company and our product development and planned future commercialization efforts; and. •. experience any delays or encounter issues with any of the above, including but not limited to failed clinical trials, conflicting results, safety issues or regulatory challenges that may require longer follow-up of existing studies, additional major studies or additional supportive studies in order to pursue marketing approval.. Our failure to become and remain profitable would decrease the value of the company and could impair our ability to raise capital, maintain our research and development efforts, expand our business or continue our operations. A decline in the value of our company could also cause you to lose all or part of your investment.. Our independent registered public accounting firm has expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern.. As described in their audit report, our auditors have included an explanatory paragraph that states that we have incurred recurring losses and negative cash flows from operations since inception and have an accumulated deficit at September 30, 2017 of<U+2009> $186.2 million, $13.5 million of senior secured notes due in December 2018 and $4.6 million of indebtedness that is due on demand. These matters raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. If we cannot continue as a viable entity, our securityholders may lose some or all of their investment in our company.. We have never generated any revenue from providing contract development and manufacturing services and may never be profitable.. We intend to expand our BioSymphony Platform capability to provide contract development and manufacturing services to help fund the future development of our pipeline of biosimilar product candidates. We have not provided these services on a contract basis in the past and may not be able to generate any revenue from providing these services. Our ability to generate revenue and achieve profitability depends on our ability to successfully expand our facility, attract and retain qualified personnel and secure contracts from potential customers. We cannot predict when we will begin generating revenue from providing contract services for a fee, as this depends heavily on our success in many areas, including but not limited to:. •. successfully completing the expansion of our manufacturing plant;. •. attracting and retaining qualified leadership and operational personnel to run the development and manufacturing facility and sell our services;. •. our ability to attract customers to use our services; and. •. our ability to compete with larger, established competitors servicing our target market.. We have never generated any revenue from product sales and may never be profitable.. Although we have received upfront and milestone payments from our license and collaboration agreements, we have no products approved for commercialization and have never generated any revenue from product sales. Our ability to generate revenue and achieve profitability depends on our ability, alone or with strategic collaboration partners, to successfully complete the development of, and obtain the regulatory and marketing approvals necessary to commercialize, one or more of our product candidates. We cannot predict when we will begin generating revenue from product sales, as this depends heavily on our success in many areas, including but not limited to:. 29. TABLE OF CONTENTS. •. completing preclinical and clinical development of our product candidates;. •. developing and testing of our product candidate formulations;. •. obtaining regulatory and marketing approvals for product candidates for which we complete clinical trials, including any delays as a result of petitions by reference product sponsors, or RPSs, or patent holders;. •. obtaining extensions of approvals for our product candidates to other indications for which the reference product is approved and commercialized;. •. developing a sustainable and scalable manufacturing process for any approved product candidates to support clinical development and the market demand for any such approved product candidates;. •. launching and commercializing product candidates for which we obtain regulatory and marketing approval, either directly or with collaboration partners;. •. obtaining adequate third-party coverage and reimbursements for our products;. •. obtaining market acceptance of our product candidates as viable treatment options, including with respect to the efficacy, safety and biosimilarity of our product candidates to the reference products;. •. addressing any competing technological and market developments;. •. identifying, assessing and developing, or acquiring and in-licensing, new product candidates;. •. negotiating favorable terms in any collaboration, licensing or other arrangements into which we may enter;. •. establishing through litigation or otherwise that we are not violating the intellectual property rights of innovators of reference products for which we are developing biosimilars, or that of other third parties;. •. maintaining, protecting and expanding our portfolio of intellectual property rights, including patents, trade secrets and know-how; and. •. attracting, hiring and retaining qualified personnel.. Even if one or more of the product candidates is approved for commercialization, we anticipate incurring significant costs to commercialize any such product. Our expenses could increase beyond our expectations if we are required by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, the European Medicines Agency, or the EMA, other regulatory agencies, domestic or foreign, or by any unfavorable outcomes in intellectual property litigation filed against us, to change our manufacturing processes or assays or to perform clinical, preclinical or other types of studies in addition to those that we currently anticipate. In cases where we are successful in obtaining regulatory approvals to market one or more of our product candidates, our revenue will be dependent, in part, upon:. •. the size of the markets in the territories for which we gain regulatory approval;. •. the number of biosimilar and other competitors in such markets;. •. the market acceptance of our products, or biosimilars in general, over the reference products;. •. novel therapies for the approved indications in our biosimilar market that erode uptake;. •. the accepted price for the product and the ability to get reimbursement at any price;. •. the nature and degree of competition from originators and other biosimilar companies (including competition from large pharmaceutical companies entering the biosimilar market that may be able to gain advantages in the sale of biosimilar products based on brand recognition and/or existing relationships with providers, pharmacy benefit managers and payors);. 30. TABLE OF CONTENTS. •. the quality and performance of our products compared to the reference products or other competing products, including the relative safety and efficacy; and. •. whether we own, or have partnered, the commercial rights for that territory.. If the market for our product candidates, or our share of that market, is not as large as we expect, the number of indications approved by regulatory authorities is narrower than we expect or the target population for treatment is narrowed by competition, physician choice or treatment guidelines, we may not generate significant revenue from sales of such products to become profitable. If we are unable to successfully complete development and obtain regulatory approval for our lead product candidates, namely ONS-3010, ONS-1045 and ONS-1050, our business will be harmed.. We will need to raise substantial additional funding to complete the expansion of our manufacturing plant and development of our product candidate pipeline. This additional funding may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. Failure to obtain this necessary capital when needed may force us to delay, limit or terminate our contract development and manufacturing and/or product development efforts or other operations.. Our plans to expand our manufacturing facility to support our efforts to begin selling contract development and manufacturing services will require significant additional funding to complete the expansion. We are also currently advancing our product candidates through preclinical development, but have decided to secure additional development partners before advancing our product candidates into and through clinical trials. Developing product candidates is an expensive, risky and lengthy process, and upon securing additional development partners we expect our expenses to increase in connection with our ongoing activities, particularly as we continue the research and development of, continue and initiate clinical trials of, and seek marketing approval for, our product candidates, in particular ONS-3010 and ONS-1045.. As of September 30, 2017, our cash balance was $3.2 million. We expect that our current cash along with the $21.7 million of cash received from our private placement of convertible preferred stock and warrants in October 2017 will be sufficient to fund our operations through June 2018. We expect that we will require substantial additional capital to commercialize ONS-3010 and ONS-1045, and to commence clinical trials, obtain regulatory approval for, and to commercialize, our product candidates, including our other preclinical product candidates and our future product candidates. However, our operating plan may change as a result of many factors currently unknown to us, and we may need to seek additional funds sooner than planned, through public or private equity or debt financings, third-party funding, marketing and distribution arrangements, as well as other collaborations, strategic alliances and licensing arrangements, or a combination of these approaches. In any event, we will require additional capital to pursue preclinical and clinical activities, pursue regulatory approval for, and to commercialize, our longer term pipeline product candidates. Even if we believe we have sufficient funds for our current or future operating plans, we may seek additional capital if market conditions are favorable or if we have specific strategic considerations.. Any additional fundraising efforts may divert our management from their day-to-day activities, which may adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates. In addition, we cannot guarantee that future financing will be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Moreover, the terms of any financing may negatively impact the holdings or the rights of our stockholders, and the issuance of additional securities, whether equity or debt, by us or the possibility of such issuance may cause the market price of our securities to decline. The incurrence of indebtedness could result in increased fixed payment obligations and we may be required to agree to certain restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional debt, limitations on our ability to acquire, sell or license intellectual property rights and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. For example, our senior secured notes issued between December 2016 and May 2017 include restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness and pay stockholder dividends, among other restrictions. We could also be required to seek funds through arrangements with collaborative partners or otherwise at an earlier stage than would be desirable and we may be required to relinquish rights to some of our technologies or product candidates or otherwise agree to terms unfavorable to us, any of which may harm our business, operating results and prospects. Even if we believe we have sufficient funds for our current or future operating plans, we may seek additional capital if market conditions are favorable or for specific strategic considerations.. 31. TABLE OF CONTENTS. If we are unable to obtain funding on a timely basis, we may be required to significantly curtail, delay or discontinue one or more of our development programs or the commercialization of any product candidates. We may also be unable to expand our operations or otherwise capitalize on our business opportunities, as desired, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our securityholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights to our technologies or product candidates.. Until such time, if ever, as we can generate substantial services or product revenues, we expect to finance our cash needs through a combination of equity and debt financings, as well as selectively continuing to enter into collaborations, strategic alliances and licensing arrangements. We do not currently have any committed external source of funds. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, your ownership interest will be diluted, and the terms of these securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect your rights as a securityholder. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends, and may be secured by all or a portion of our assets.. If we raise funds by selectively continuing to enter into collaborations, strategic alliances or licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish additional valuable rights to our technologies, future revenue streams, research programs or product candidates or to grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. If we are unable to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings when needed, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our product development or future commercialization efforts or grant rights to develop and market product candidates that we would otherwise prefer to develop and market ourselves. If we are unable to raise additional funds through collaborations, strategic alliances or licensing arrangements, we may be required to terminate product development or future commercialization efforts or to cease operations altogether.. Risks Related to the Discovery and Development of Our Product Candidates. We are dependent on the success of our two most advanced product candidates, ONS-3010 and ONS-1045. All of our other product candidates are still in various stages of preclinical development. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize, ONS-3010 and ONS-1045, our business will be harmed.. Biosimilar product development is a highly speculative undertaking and involves a substantial degree of risk. We have initiated preparatory activities for our confirmatory Phase 3 clinical trial of ONS-3010, our adalimumab (Humira) biosimilar candidate, and ONS-1045, our bevacizumab (Avastin) biosimilar candidate. It may be several years, if ever, before we initiate and complete Phase 3 clinical trials and have a product candidate ready to file for market approval with the relevant regulatory agencies. We will require additional funds to advance the development of ONS-3010 through Phase 3 clinical trials. Further, we will need to raise substantial additional capital, either through equity or debt issuances or through strategic collaborations to advance our other product candidates, including ONS-1045, into clinical trials. If we obtain regulatory approval to market a biosimilar product candidate, our future revenue will depend upon the size of any markets in which our product candidates may receive approval and our ability to achieve sufficient market acceptance, pricing, reimbursement from third-party payors and adequate market share for our product candidates in those markets. Even if one or more of our product candidates gain regulatory approval and are commercialized, we may never become profitable.. To date, we have invested substantially all of our efforts and financial resources to identify, develop and manufacture our product candidates. Our long term success is dependent on our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval for, and commercialize and obtain adequate third-party coverage and reimbursement for one or more product candidates. We currently do not have any approved products and generate no revenue from sales of any products, and we may never be able to develop or commercialize a marketable product.. Our product candidates are in varying stages of development and will require significant additional investment before we generate any revenue from product sales, if at all. Notably, we must continue clinical development, including managing preclinical and clinical manufacturing activities, obtain regulatory. 32. TABLE OF CONTENTS. approvals, manufacture adequate commercial supplies, build a commercial organization and conduct significant marketing efforts. We have initiated Phase 3 preparatory activities for ONS-3010 and ONS-1045. We are not permitted to market or promote any of our product candidates before we receive regulatory approval from the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities, and we may never receive such regulatory approval for any of our product candidates. We have not submitted any marketing applications for our product candidates to the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities and any application we submit may not be approved.. We plan to seek regulatory approval to commercialize our product candidates in the United States, the European Union, or the EU, and in additional foreign countries where we or our partners have commercial rights. To obtain regulatory approval, we and our collaboration partners must comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of such countries regarding safety, efficacy, chemistry, manufacturing and controls, clinical trials, commercial sales and pricing and distribution of our product candidates. Even if we are successful in obtaining approval in one jurisdiction, we cannot ensure that we will obtain approval in any other jurisdictions. If we are unable to obtain approval for our product candidates in multiple jurisdictions, our revenue and results of operations could be negatively impacted.. We cannot be certain that any of our product candidates will be successful in clinical trials or receive regulatory approval. Further, our product candidates may not receive regulatory approval even if they are successful in clinical trials. If we do not receive regulatory approvals for our product candidates, we may not be able to continue our operations.. The development, manufacture and commercialization of biosimilar products under various global regulatory pathways pose unique risks. To our knowledge, there have been only nine biosimilar product applications approved by the FDA under the 351(k) pathway to date.. United States Regulatory Framework for Biosimilars. We and our collaboration partners intend to pursue market authorization globally. In the United States, an abbreviated pathway for approval of biosimilar products was established by the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009, or BPCIA, enacted on March 23, 2010, as part of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. The BPCIA established this abbreviated pathway under section 351(k) of the Public Health Service Act, or PHSA. Subsequent to the enactment of the BPCIA, the FDA issued draft guidance regarding the demonstration of biosimilarity as well as the submission and review of biosimilar applications. To our knowledge, there have been only nine mAb biosimilar product applications approved by the FDA under the 351(k) pathway to date. Moreover, market acceptance of biosimilar products in the United States is still in its infancy and continues to evolve.. Numerous states are considering or have already enacted laws that regulate or restrict the substitution by state pharmacies of biosimilars for reference products already licensed by the FDA. Market success of biosimilar products will depend on demonstrating to patients, physicians, payors and relevant authorities that such products are similar in quality, safety and efficacy as compared to the reference product.. The BPCIA requires a biosimilar applicant to demonstrate biosimilarity with respect to a reference product that has been approved by FDA in the United States. Biosimilars approved in the EU and other non-U.S.jurisdictions may not be approved in the United States without additional \"bridging\" studies demonstrating biosimilarity to an FDA-approved reference product. Biosimilars approved in the United States may also not be approved in foreign jurisdictions without additional bridging studies. The requirements for such bridging studies are not well defined, which may delay the global marketing of our product candidates.. We will continue to analyze and incorporate into our biosimilar development plans any final regulations or guidance issued by the FDA, pharmacy substitution policies enacted by state governments and other applicable requirements established by relevant authorities. The costs of development and approval, along with the probability of success for our biosimilar product candidates, will be dependent upon application of any laws and regulations issued by the relevant regulatory authorities.. Biosimilar products may also be subject to extensive patent clearances and patent infringement litigation, which may delay and could prevent the commercial launch of a product. Moreover, the BPCIA prohibits the FDA from accepting an application for a biosimilar candidate to a reference product within four years. 33. TABLE OF CONTENTS. of the reference product's licensure by the FDA. In addition, the BPCIA provides reference biologics with 12 years of exclusivity from the date of their licensure, during which time the FDA cannot approve any application for a biosimilar candidate to the reference product. For example, the FDA would not be able to grant approval of any application submitted for a bevacizumab (Avastin) biosimilar or a trastuzumab (Herceptin) biosimilar, until 12 years after the original biologics license application or the BLAs, for these drugs were approved, which occurred on February 26, 2004 in the case of Avastin and September 25, 1998 in the case of Herceptin. However, in the past, legislative proposals have been introduced to cut this 12-year period of exclusivity down to seven years and prohibit additional periods of exclusivity due to minor changes in product formulations, a practice often referred to as \"evergreening.\" In addition, the Federal Circuit has recently interpreted the BPCIA as requiring (under certain circumstances) the biosimilar applicant to give the RPS 180 days' notice of commercial launch after receiving approval from FDA. This could result in an additional six months of market exclusivity for the reference product. Patent infringement litigation under the BPCIA may also be complex and time-consuming. RPSs may seek preliminary injunctions barring launch during the pendency of such litigation, which could substantially delay market entry.. The BPCIA is complex and only beginning to be interpreted and implemented by the FDA and courts. As a result, its ultimate impact, implementation and meaning are evolving and subject to significant uncertainty. Future implementation decisions by the FDA or court decisions could result in delays in the development or commercialization of our product candidates or increased costs to assure regulatory compliance and could adversely affect our operating results by restricting or significantly delaying our ability to market new biosimilar products.. Regulatory Framework for Biosimilars Outside the United States. In 2004, the European Parliament issued legislation allowing the approval of biosimilar therapeutics. Since then, the European Commission has granted marketing authorizations for biosimilars pursuant to a set of general and product class-specific guidelines for biosimilar approvals issued over the past few years. Because of their extensive experience in the review and approval of biosimilars, the EU has more final guidelines than the FDA, including specific product data requirements needed to support approval.. Generally speaking, under current EU regulations, an application for regulatory approval of a biosimilar drug cannot be submitted in the EU until expiration of an eight year data exclusivity period for the reference product, measured from the date of the reference product's initial marketing authorization. Furthermore, once approved, the biosimilar cannot be marketed until expiration of a 10-year period following the initial marketing authorization of the reference product, such 10-year period being extendible to 11 years if the reference product received approval of an additional therapeutic indication within the first eight years following its initial marketing authorization, representing a significant clinical benefit in comparison with existing therapies. However, we understand that reference products approved prior to November 20, 2005 (which would include, for example, Humira, approved in the EU on August 9, 2003) are subject to a 10-year period of data exclusivity. While the data exclusivity periods for Humira have now expired in the EU, the reference product is presently still subject to unexpired patents.. In the EU, the approval of a biosimilar for marketing is based on an opinion issued by the EMA and a decision issued by the European Commission. Therefore, the marketing approval will cover the entire European Economic Area, or EEA. However, substitution of a biosimilar for the reference product is a decision that is made at the Member State level.. Additionally, a number of countries do not permit the automatic substitution of biosimilars for the reference product. Therefore, even if we obtain marketing approval for the entire EEA, we may not receive substitution in one or more European nations, thereby restricting our ability to market our products in those jurisdictions.. Other regions, including Canada, Mexico, China, Japan and Korea, also have their own legislation outlining a regulatory pathway for the approval of biosimilars. In some cases, other countries have either adopted European guidance (Singapore and Malaysia) or are following guidance issued by the World Health Organization (Cuba and Brazil). While there is overlap in the regulatory requirements across regions, there are also some areas of non-overlap. Additionally, we cannot predict whether countries that we may wish to. 34. TABLE OF CONTENTS. market in, which do not yet have an established or tested regulatory framework, could decide to issue regulations or guidance and/or adopt a more conservative viewpoint than other regions. Therefore, it is possible that even if we obtain agreement from one health authority to an accelerated or optimized development plan, we will need to defer to the most conservative view to ensure global harmonization of the development plan. Also, for regions where regulatory authorities do not yet have sufficient experience in the review and approval of a biosimilar product, these authorities may rely on the approval from another region such as the United States or the EU, which could delay our approval in that region.. Due to our limited resources and access to capital, we have, and will continue to need to, prioritize development of certain product candidates; and these decisions may prove to have been wrong and may harm our business.. Because we have limited resources and access to capital to fund our operations, we must decide which product candidates to pursue and the amount of resources to allocate to each. We are currently seeking additional development or licensing partners for the development of our mAb biosimilars and, in particular, ONS-3010, ONS-1045 and ONS-1050. Our decisions concerning the allocation of research, collaboration, management and financial resources toward particular product candidates or therapeutic areas may not lead to the development of viable commercial products and may divert resources away from better opportunities. Similarly, our potential decisions to delay, terminate or collaborate with third parties in respect to certain product development programs may also prove not to be optimal and could cause us to miss valuable opportunities. If we make incorrect determinations regarding the market potential of our product candidates or misread trends in the biosimilar industry, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed.. The evolving regulatory approval processes of the FDA, EMA and comparable foreign authorities are lengthy, time-consuming, rigorous and inherently unpredictable. If we and our collaboration partners are ultimately unable to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, our business will be harmed.. The research, development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, packaging, approval, promotion, advertising, storage, marketing, distribution, post-approval monitoring and reporting and export and import of biologic products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory authorities in the United States, by the EMA and Competent Authorities in the EEA, and by other regulatory authorities in other countries, where regulations differ from country to country. We are not permitted to market our product candidates in the United States until we receive approval from the FDA, or in the EEA until we receive European Commission or EEA Competent Authority approvals.. The exact amount of time required to obtain approval by the FDA and comparable foreign authorities is unpredictable, may take years following the completion of clinical trials and depends upon numerous factors, which may not be within our control. In addition, approval policies, regulations or the type and amount of clinical data necessary to gain approval may change during the course of a product candidate's clinical development and may vary among jurisdictions, which could cause delays in the approval or the decision not to approve an application. We have not obtained regulatory approval for any of our product candidates, and it is possible that none of our current or future product candidates will ever obtain regulatory approval.. Applications for our product candidates could fail to receive regulatory approval for many reasons, including but not limited to the following:. •. the data collected from clinical trials of our product candidates may not be sufficient to support the submission of a BLA, a biosimilar product application under the 351(k) pathway of the PHSA, a biosimilar marketing authorization under Article 6 of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004 and/or Article 10(4) of Directive 2001/83/EC in the EEA or other submission or to obtain regulatory approval in the United States, the EEA or elsewhere;. •. the FDA, EMA or other foreign regulatory authorities may disagree with the design or implementation of our clinical trials;. •. the population studied in the clinical trial may not be sufficiently representative to assure safety in the full population for which we seek approval;. 35. TABLE OF CONTENTS. •. the FDA, EMA or other foreign regulatory authorities may disagree with our interpretation of data from analytical and bioanalytical studies, preclinical studies or clinical trials;. •. we may be unable to demonstrate to the FDA, EMA or other foreign regulatory authorities that our product candidate is highly similar to biological reference products already licensed by the regulatory authority pursuant to marketing applications, notwithstanding minor differences in clinically inactive components;. •. we may be unable to extrapolate or obtain approval of other indication for which the reference product is approved by the FDA, EMA or other foreign regulatory authority to other indications for which the reference product is approved;. •. we may be unable to obtain an interchangeability designation by the FDA or other foreign regulatory authority for our product candidate, which may deter physicians, providers and payors from prescribing our product candidates;. •. the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may fail to deem our manufacturing processes, test procedures and specifications or our manufacturing facilities adequate for approval; and. •. the approval policies or regulations of the FDA, EMA or other foreign regulatory authorities may significantly change in a manner rendering our clinical data insufficient for approval.. This lengthy approval process, as well as the unpredictability of the results of clinical trials, may result in our failure to obtain regulatory approval to market any of our product candidates, which would significantly harm our business. Moreover, any delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing could significantly impact our product development costs and commercial return potential, and could result in the need for additional financing.. In addition, if we change the regulatory pathway through which we intend to seek approval of any of our product candidates, or alter their composition or method of manufacturing, we may have to conduct additional clinical trials, which may delay our ability to submit a marketing application for the product.. Even if we or our collaboration partners were to obtain approval for any of our product candidates, regulatory agencies may limit the scope of such approval for fewer or more limited indications than we request, may grant approval contingent on the completion of costly additional clinical trials or may approve a product candidate with a label that does not include the labeling claims necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of that product candidate. Any of the foregoing could harm the commercial prospects for our product candidates.. If we are not able to demonstrate the biosimilarity of our product candidates to the satisfaction of regulatory authorities, we will not obtain regulatory approval for commercial sale of our product candidates and our future results of operations will be adversely affected.. Our future results of operations depend heavily on our ability to obtain regulatory approval for and to commercialize our biosimilar product candidates. To obtain regulatory approval for the commercial sale of these product candidates, we will be required to demonstrate to the satisfaction of regulatory authorities, among other relevant groups such as physicians and payors, that our biosimilar product candidates are highly similar to biological reference products already licensed by the regulatory authority pursuant to marketing applications, notwithstanding minor differences in clinically inactive components, and that there are no clinically meaningful differences as compared to the marketed reference products in terms of the safety, purity and potency of such reference products. Each jurisdiction may apply different criteria to assess biosimilarity, based on a preponderance of the data that can be interpreted subjectively in some cases.. Although we have had several interactions with both the FDA and EMA for our lead product candidates and will continue to meet with regulators as necessary, we cannot be assured that results from our scientific studies will meet the rigorous requirements for approval. In addition, we cannot be certain of potential future changes to regulatory requirements that may require additional work before approval can be granted. It is also uncertain if regulatory authorities will grant the full reference label to our biosimilar product. 36. TABLE OF CONTENTS. candidates when they are approved. For example, an infliximab (Remicade®) biosimilar molecule was approved in the EU for the full reference label but did not receive the full reference label when approved in Canada. A similar outcome could occur with respect to one or more of our product candidates, which would have a negative impact on our ability to commercialize our products.. The structure of complex mAb biologics is inherently variable and highly dependent on the processes and conditions used to manufacture them. If we are unable to develop manufacturing processes that achieve a requisite degree of biosimilarity to the reference product, and within a range of variability considered acceptable by regulatory authorities, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for our products.. MAb biologics are inherently heterogeneous and their structures are highly dependent on the cell line and production process conditions. Products from one production facility can differ within an acceptable range from those produced in another facility. Similarly, physicochemical differences can also exist among different lots produced within a single facility. The physicochemical complexity and size of biologic therapeutics create significant technical and scientific challenges in the context of their replication as biosimilar products.. The inherent variability in the protein structure from one production lot to another is a fundamental consideration with respect to establishing biosimilarity to a reference product to support regulatory approval requirements. For example, the glycosylation of the protein, meaning the manner in which sugar molecules are attached to the protein when it is produced, can be critical to the half-life, efficacy, immunogenicity and safety of the therapeutic and is therefore a key consideration for biosimilarity. Also, small changes in the structure or folding of the protein backbone of a mAb can impact its affinity, specificity and immunogenicity. Defining and understanding the variability of a reference product in order to match its glycosylation profile and other critical quality attributes requires significant skill in cell biology, protein purification and analytical protein chemistry. Furthermore, manufacturing proteins with reliable and consistent product quality at scale is challenging and highly dependent on the skill of the cell biologist and process scientist.. There are extraordinary technical challenges in developing complex mAb biologics that not only must achieve an acceptable degree of similarity to the reference product in terms of structural characteristics, but also the ability to develop manufacturing processes that can replicate the necessary structural characteristics within an acceptable range of variability sufficient to satisfy regulatory authorities.. Given the challenges caused by the inherent variability in protein production, we may not be successful in developing our product candidates if regulators conclude that we have not achieved a sufficient level of biosimilarity to the reference product, or that the processes we use to manufacture our product candidates are unable to produce our product candidates within an acceptable range of variability. These challenges may result in a failure to obtain regulatory approval for our products and could harm our business.. Clinical drug development is a lengthy and expensive process and we may encounter substantial delays in our clinical trials or may fail to demonstrate safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities.. Before obtaining marketing approval from regulatory authorities for the sale of our product candidates, we and our collaboration partners must conduct clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the product candidates in humans.. We cannot guarantee that any clinical trials will be conducted as planned or completed on schedule, if at all. A failure of one or more clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing, and our future clinical trials may not be successful. Events that may prevent successful or timely completion of clinical development include but are not limited to:. •. inability to generate sufficient preclinical, toxicology or other in vivo or in vitro data to support the initiation of human clinical trials;. •. delays in reaching a consensus with regulatory agencies on study design;. •. delays in reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations, or CROs, and clinical trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and clinical trial sites;. 37. TABLE OF CONTENTS. •. delays in obtaining required Institutional Review Board, or IRB, approval at each clinical trial site;. •. imposition of a clinical hold by regulatory agencies, after review of an investigational new drug, or IND, application or amendment or equivalent filing, or an inspection of our clinical trial operations or trial sites, or as a result of adverse events reported during a clinical trial;. •. delays in recruiting suitable patients to participate in our clinical trials;. •. difficulty collaborating with patient groups and investigators;. •. failure by our CROs, other third parties or us to adhere to clinical trial requirements;. •. failure to perform in accordance with the FDA's good clinical practice, or GCP, requirements or applicable regulatory guidelines in other countries;. •. delays in having subjects complete participation in a study or return for post-treatment follow-up, or subjects dropping out of a study;. •. occurrence of adverse events associated with the product candidate that are viewed to outweigh its potential benefits;. •. changes in regulatory requirements and guidance that require amending or submitting new clinical protocols;. •. the cost of clinical trials of our product candidates being greater than we anticipate;. •. inability to obtain sufficient quantities of reference product for the comparator arm of our studies;. •. clinical trials of our product candidates producing negative or inconclusive results, which may result in us deciding or regulators requiring us to conduct additional clinical trials or abandon product development programs; and. •. delays in manufacturing, testing, releasing, validating or importing/exporting and/or distributing sufficient stable quantities of our product candidates and reference products for use in clinical trials or the inability to do any of the foregoing.. Any inability to successfully complete preclinical studies and clinical development could result in additional costs to us or impair our ability to generate revenue. In addition, if we make manufacturing or formulation changes to our product candidates, we may need to conduct additional clinical trials to bridge our modified product candidates to earlier versions.. Clinical development of biosimilars is different and can be more complex than clinical development programs for the reference products.. Clinical trials to show comparability of a biosimilar candidate to an approved reference product are new and differ from the clinical trials to gain approval for a new biologic. This may lead to difficulties in designing, initiating and enrolling trials for our product candidates. Some of these difficulties include:. •. finding eligible patients willing to participate in clinical trials for biosimilar drugs;. •. finding investigators willing to participate in biosimilar trials and who have access to appropriate patients;. •. accommodating changes to reference product formulations during the conduct of clinical trials;. •. competition for sites and patients where new and competitive therapies are being tested;. •. designing, enrolling and completing a clinical trial to demonstrate biosimilarity and, where appropriate, interchangeability; and. •. working with investigators that are not as experienced in conducting biosimilarity or interchangeability trials, or with the regulations applicable to such clinical trials.. 38. TABLE OF CONTENTS. These requirements and difficulties may lead to data quality issues or an inability to start or finish a clinical trial, or may lead to significant delays, which in turn may lead to the inability to produce data for approval of our biosimilar product candidates.. The results of previous clinical trials may not be predictive of future results, and the results of our current and planned clinical trials may not satisfy the requirements of the FDA, EMA or other foreign regulatory agencies.. Clinical failure can occur at any stage of clinical development. Clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we or any of our current and future collaborators may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical or preclinical testing. We will be required to demonstrate with substantial evidence through well-controlled clinical trials that our product candidates are as safe and effective for use in a specific patient population as the respective reference products before we can seek regulatory approvals for their commercial sale. Success in early clinical trials does not mean that future larger registration clinical trials will be successful because product candidates in later-stage clinical trials may fail to demonstrate equivalent safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the FDA, EMA and other foreign regulatory agencies despite having progressed through initial clinical trials. Product candidates that have shown promising results in early clinical trials may still fail in subsequent confirmatory clinical trials. Similarly, the outcome of preclinical testing and early clinical trials may not be predictive of the success of later clinical trials, and interim results of a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including those with greater resources and experience than us, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after obtaining promising results in earlier clinical trials.. In addition, the design of a clinical trial can determine whether its results will support approval of a product and flaws in the design of a clinical trial may not become apparent until the clinical trial is well advanced. We may be unable to design and execute a clinical trial to support regulatory approval. In some instances, there can be significant variability in safety or efficacy results between different trials of the same product candidate due to numerous factors, including but not limited to changes in trial protocols, differences in size and type of the patient populations, adherence to the dosing regimen and the rate of dropout among clinical trial participants.. Further, our product candidates may not be approved even if they achieve their primary endpoints in Phase 3 clinical trials or registration trials. The FDA, EMA and other foreign regulatory agencies may disagree with our trial design and our interpretation of data from preclinical studies and clinical trials. In addition, any of these regulatory authorities may change the requirements for the approval of a product candidate even after reviewing and providing comments or advice on a protocol for a Phase 3 clinical trial that has the potential to result in FDA or other agencies' approval. We initially intend to seek approval for ONS-3010 for the treatment of plaque psoriasis and ONS-1045 for the treatment of non-squamous, non-small cell lung cancer. We have not yet determined the indication for which we will seek initial approval for ONS-1050 or our preclinical biosimilar product candidates. We plan to extrapolate to all indications in the approved product labeling of the reference product based on the sensitive population agreed by the FDA and EMA in the confirmatory clinical study. During review of the registration application, our justification for the extrapolation may not be accepted. Any of the regulatory authorities may approve a product candidate for fewer indications than we request or may grant approval contingent on the performance of costly post-marketing clinical trials. In addition, the FDA, EMA and other foreign regulatory agencies may not approve the additional indication extrapolations that we believe would be necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of our product candidates.. Our product candidates may cause undesirable side effects or have other properties that could delay or prevent their regulatory approval, limit the commercial profile of an approved label or result in significant negative consequences following marketing approval, if granted.. As with most pharmaceutical products, use of our product candidates could be associated with side effects or adverse events, which can vary in severity and frequency. Side effects or adverse events associated with the use of our product candidates may be observed at any time, including in clinical trials or when a product is commercialized. Undesirable side effects caused by our product candidates could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in a more restrictive label or the delay or. 39. TABLE OF CONTENTS. denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other foreign authorities. Results of our studies could reveal a high and unacceptable severity and prevalence of side effects, toxicity or other safety issues, and could require us to perform additional studies or halt development or sale of these product candidates or expose us to product liability lawsuits that will harm our business. In such an event, we may be required by regulatory agencies to conduct additional animal or human studies regarding the safety and efficacy of our product candidates that we have not planned or anticipated or our studies could be suspended or terminated, and the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities could order us to cease further development of or deny or withdraw approval of our product candidates for any or all targeted indications. There can be no assurance that we will resolve any issues related to any product-related adverse events to the satisfaction of the FDA or any other regulatory agency in a timely manner, if ever, which could harm our business, prospects and financial condition.. Additionally, product quality characteristics have been shown to be sensitive to changes in process conditions, manufacturing techniques, equipment or sites and other related considerations, and as such, any manufacturing process changes we implement prior to or after regulatory approval could impact product safety.. Additionally, if one or more of our product candidates receives marketing approval, and we or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by such products, a number of potentially significant negative consequences could result, including but not limited to:. •. regulatory authorities may withdraw approvals of such product;. •. regulatory authorities may require additional warnings on the label;. •. we may be required to create a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy plan, which could include a medication guide outlining the risks of such side effects for distribution to patients, a communication plan for healthcare providers and/or other elements to assure safe use;. •. we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients; and. •. our reputation may suffer.. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the particular product candidate, if approved, and could significantly harm our business, results of operations and prospects.. If we receive approval, regulatory agencies including the FDA, EMA and other foreign regulatory agency regulations require that we report certain information about adverse medical events if those products may have caused or contributed to those adverse events. The timing of our obligation to report would be triggered by the date we become aware of the adverse event as well as the nature of the event. We may fail to report adverse events we become aware of within the prescribed timeframe. We may also fail to appreciate that we have become aware of a reportable adverse event, especially if it is not reported to us as an adverse event or if it is an adverse event that is unexpected or removed in time from the use of our products. If we fail to comply with our reporting obligations, the FDA, EMA or other foreign regulatory agencies could take action including but not limited to criminal prosecution, the imposition of civil monetary penalties, seizure of our products or delay in approval or clearance of future products.. If other biosimilars of adalimumab (Humira), bevacizumab (Avastin) or trastuzumab (Herceptin) are determined to be interchangeable and our biosimilar product candidates for these reference products are not, our business would suffer.. The FDA or other relevant regulatory authorities may determine that a proposed biosimilar product is \"interchangeable\" with a reference product, meaning that the biosimilar product may be substituted for the reference product without the intervention of the healthcare provider who prescribed the reference product, if the application includes sufficient information to show that the product is biosimilar to the reference product and that it can be expected to produce the same clinical result as the reference product in any given patient. If the biosimilar product may be administered more than once to a patient, the applicant must demonstrate that the risk in terms of safety or diminished efficacy of alternating or switching between the biosimilar product and the reference product is not greater than the risk of using the reference product. 40. TABLE OF CONTENTS. without such alternation or switch. To make a final determination of biosimilarity or interchangeability, regulatory authorities may require additional confirmatory information beyond what we plan to initially submit in our applications for approval, such as more in-depth analytical characterization, animal testing or further clinical trials. Provision of sufficient information for approval may prove difficult and expensive.. We cannot predict whether any of our biosimilar product candidates will meet regulatory authority requirements for approval as a biosimilar product or as an interchangeable product in any jurisdiction. Furthermore, legislation governing interchangeability could differ by jurisdiction on a state or national level worldwide.. The concept of<U+2009> \"interchangeability\" is important in the U.S. market, potentially the largest global market for biosimilars, because the first biosimilar determined to be interchangeable with a particular reference product for any condition of use is eligible for a period of market exclusivity with respect to other interchangeable biosimilars. The FDA may not designate a second or subsequent biosimilar product as interchangeable with the reference product until the earlier of: (1) one year after the first commercial marketing of the first interchangeable product; (2) 18 months after resolution of a patent infringement suit instituted under 42 U.S.C. § 262(l)(6) against the applicant that submitted the application for the first interchangeable product; (3) 42 months after approval of the first interchangeable product, if a patent infringement suit instituted under 42 U.S.C. § 262(l)(6) against the applicant that submitted the application for the first interchangeable product is still ongoing; or (4) 18 months after approval of the first interchangeable product if the applicant that submitted the application for the first interchangeable product has not been sued under 42 U.S.C. § 262(l)(6). Thus, a determination that another company's product is interchangeable with the reference biologic before we obtain such a designation may delay the potential determination that our products are interchangeable with the reference product, which could harm our results of operations and delay, prevent or limit our ability to generate revenue.. If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our current or future product candidates, and our existing insurance coverage may not be sufficient to satisfy any liability that may arise.. Drug-related side effects could affect patient recruitment for clinical trials, the ability of enrolled patients to complete our studies or result in potential product liability claims. We currently carry product liability insurance in the amount of<U+2009> $10.0 million per product candidate and we are required to maintain product liability insurance pursuant to certain of our license agreements. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could negatively impact our results of operations and business. In addition, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in impairment of our business reputation, withdrawal of clinical trial participants, costs due to related litigation, distraction of management's attention from our primary business, initiation of investigations by regulators, substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants, the inability to commercialize our product candidates and decreased demand for our product candidates, if approved for commercial sale. Furthermore, we may also not be able to take advantage of limitations on product liability lawsuits that apply to generic drug products, which could increase our exposure to liability for products deemed to be dangerous or defective.. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in any targeted jurisdiction would prevent us from marketing our products to a larger patient population and reduce our commercial opportunities.. We and our collaboration partners have not initiated marketing efforts in any jurisdiction. Subject to product approvals and relevant patent expirations, we or our collaboration partners intend to first market our products in the EU and Japan followed by the United States.. In order to market our products in the EU, the United States and other jurisdictions, we and our collaboration partners must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The EMA is responsible for the regulation and recommendation for approval of human medicines in the EU. This procedure results in a single marketing authorization that is valid in all EU countries, as well as in Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. The time required to obtain approval abroad may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process may include. 41. TABLE OF CONTENTS. all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval and we may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or by the FDA. We or our collaboration partners may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products within the EU, the United States or in other jurisdictions. Failure to obtain these approvals would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Approval in the United States requires a demonstration of biosimilarity to a U.S.-approved reference product. EMA approval requires a demonstration of biosimilarity to an EMA-approved reference product. Accordingly, for our global clinical program, bridging studies will be required in order to use the clinical testing in one jurisdiction in another. The bridging studies must demonstrate that the data demonstrating biosimilarity against the EMA-approved reference product are sufficient to demonstrate biosimilarity to the FDA-approved reference product, and vice versa. The need for such bridging studies may delay or limit our ability to market our products globally.. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for a product candidate, our products will remain subject to regulatory scrutiny.. If our product candidates are approved, they will be subject to ongoing regulatory requirements for manufacturing, labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, sampling, record-keeping, conduct of post-marketing studies and submission of safety, efficacy and other post-market information, including both federal and state requirements in the United States and requirements of comparable foreign regulatory authorities.. Manufacturers and manufacturing facilities are required to comply with extensive FDA, and comparable foreign regulatory authority, requirements, including ensuring that quality control and manufacturing procedures conform to current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, regulations. As such, we will be subject to continual review and inspections to assess compliance with cGMP and adherence to commitments made in any non-disclosure agreement, BLA or marketing authorization application, or MAA. Accordingly, we and our collaborators and suppliers must continue to expend time, money and effort in all areas of regulatory compliance, including manufacturing, production and quality control.. Any regulatory approvals that we or our collaboration partners receive for our product candidates may be subject to limitations on the approved indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or to the conditions of approval or may contain requirements for potentially costly additional clinical trials and surveillance to monitor the safety and efficacy of the product candidate. We will be required to report certain adverse reactions and production problems, if any, to the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities. Any new legislation addressing drug safety issues could result in delays in product development or commercialization or increased costs to assure compliance. We will have to comply with requirements concerning advertising and promotion for our products. Promotional communications with respect to prescription drugs are subject to a variety of legal and regulatory restrictions and must be consistent with the information in the product's approved label. As such, we are not allowed to promote our products for indications or uses for which they do not have approval. If our product candidates are approved, we must submit new or supplemental applications and obtain approval for certain changes to the approved products, product labeling or manufacturing process. We could also be asked to conduct post-marketing clinical trials to verify the safety and efficacy of our products in general or in specific patient subsets. An unsuccessful post-marketing study or failure to complete such a study could result in the withdrawal of marketing approval.. If a regulatory agency discovers previously unknown problems with an approved product, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency or problems with our manufacturing facilities or disagrees with the promotion, marketing or labeling of a product, such regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product or us, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency or enforcement authority may, among other things:. •. issue untitled and warning letters;. 42. TABLE OF CONTENTS. •. impose civil or criminal penalties;. •. suspend or withdraw regulatory approval;. •. suspend any of our ongoing clinical trials;. •. refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications submitted by us;. •. impose restrictions on our operations, including closing our manufacturing facilities; or. •. seize or detain products or require a product recall.. Any government investigation of alleged violations of law could require us to expend significant time and resources in response and could generate negative publicity. Any failure to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements may significantly and adversely affect our ability to commercialize and generate revenue from our products. If regulatory sanctions are applied or if regulatory approval is withdrawn, the value of our company and our operating results will be negatively impacted.. Adverse events involving a reference product, or other biosimilars of such reference product, may adversely affect our business.. In the event that use of a reference product, or other biosimilar for such reference product, results in unanticipated side effects or other adverse events, it is likely that our biosimilar product candidate will be viewed comparably and may become subject to the same scrutiny and regulatory sanctions as the reference product or other biosimilar, as applicable. Discovery of such unanticipated side effects or other adverse events in a reference product may result in changes to its approved labeling or indications, or even withdrawal of the reference product from the market. Additionally, if a biosimilar is approved for the same reference product as one of our product candidates and unanticipated side effects or other adverse events are associated with such third-party biosimilar in the future, the development and market for our product candidate could be adversely affected.. As a result, we may become subject to regulatory supervisions, clinical holds, product recalls or other regulatory actions for matters outside of our control that affect the reference product, or other biosimilar, as applicable, if and until we are able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of our regulators that our biosimilar product candidate is not subject to the same issues leading to the regulatory action as the reference product or other biosimilar, as applicable.. We may elect to seek licensure of our biosimilar products under the 351(a) (novel biologic) approval pathway instead of the 351(k) (biosimilar) approval pathway. This approval pathway may require us to undertake more expensive clinical trials and may present greater risk of failure than the 351(k) (biosimilar) approval pathway.. While we have elected to proceed under the 351(k) (biosimilar) approval pathway for ONS-3010, ONS-1045 and ONS-1050, we may elect for future products to pursue a 351(a) (novel biologic) approval pathway for a variety of clinical, regulatory and business reasons. The 351(a) (novel biologic) approval pathway generally requires three study phases (as contrasted with the two-study phases generally accepted by FDA for an application submitted under the 351(k) (biosimilar) pathway). Moreover, the 351(a) pathway generally does not allow for the possibility that a clinical trial in one indication can be extrapolated to multiple indications as is generally the case under the 351(k) (biosimilar) approval pathway. Pursuing licensure under the 351(a) (novel biologic) approval pathway may present disadvantages in terms of the requirements for additional clinical and nonclinical trials, clinical trial cost and failure risk, as well as the likelihood that multiple clinical trials would be required to obtain approval for all of the indications approved for the reference drug.. Risks Related to Commercialization of Our Product Candidates. We face intense competition and rapid technological change and the possibility that our competitors may develop therapies that are similar, more advanced or more effective than ours. Other biosimilars or \"biobetters\" of the reference products we are targeting may be approved and successfully commercialized before ours, which may adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates.. We expect to enter highly competitive pharmaceutical markets. Successful competitors in the pharmaceutical markets have demonstrated the ability to effectively discover, obtain patents, develop, test. 43. TABLE OF CONTENTS. and obtain regulatory approvals for products, as well as an ability to effectively commercialize, market and promote approved products. Numerous companies, universities and other research institutions are engaged in developing, patenting, manufacturing and marketing of products competitive with those that we are developing. Many of these potential competitors are large, experienced pharmaceutical companies that enjoy significant competitive advantages, such as substantially greater financial, research and development, manufacturing, personnel and marketing resources. These companies also have greater brand recognition and more experience in conducting preclinical testing and clinical trials of product candidates and obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products.. We have competitors both in the United States and internationally, including major multinational pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies. Some of the pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies we expect to compete with include, for example, Amgen Inc., or Amgen, Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, or Boehringer, Hanwha Chemical Corporation, Pfizer Inc., or Pfizer, Samsung Bioepis Co., Ltd. (a Merck/Biogen/ Samsung biosimilar venture), Sandoz International GmbH, or Sandoz and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, Ltd., as well as other smaller companies such as Adello Biologics, LLC, Celltrion, Inc., Coherus Biosciences, Inc. and Mylan N.V. We are currently aware that such competitors are engaged in the development of biosimilar product candidates to adalimumab (Humira)<U+2009> - <U+2009>for which Amgen has received approval, bevacizumab (Avastin) and trastuzumab (Herceptin), and expect that some of these competitors will commercialize their biosimilar products prior to us, which could materially harm our ability to gain market share.. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and other resources, such as larger research and development staff and experienced marketing and manufacturing organizations. Additional mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical industry may result in even more resources being concentrated in our competitors. As a result, these companies may obtain regulatory approval more rapidly than we are able to and may be more effective in selling and marketing their products. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large, established companies. Our competitors may succeed in developing, acquiring or licensing on an exclusive basis, products that are more effective or less costly than any product candidate that we may develop; they may also obtain patent protection that could block our products; and they may obtain regulatory approval, product commercialization and market penetration earlier than we do. Biosimilar product candidates developed by our competitors may render our potential product candidates uneconomical, less desirable or obsolete, and we may not be successful in marketing our product candidates against competitors. Competitors may also assert in their marketing or medical education programs that their biosimilar products demonstrate a higher degree of biosimilarity to the reference products than do ours or other competitor's biosimilar products, thereby seeking to influence healthcare practitioners to select their biosimilar products rather than ours or other competitors. Competitors may also develop \"biobetter\" versions of reference products we are targeting. A biobetter is a product that contains alterations to the reference product's chemical structure or delivery system that provide a clinical benefit over the original reference product. Biobetters developed by our competitors may compete advantageously against our products and limit our market success.. We expect additional companies to seek approval to manufacture and market biosimilar versions of Humira, Avastin and Herceptin, in some cases, in advance of our commercialization timeline. If other biosimilars of Humira, Avastin or Herceptin are approved and successfully commercialized before ONS-3010, ONS-1045 or ONS-1050, respectively, we may never achieve significant market share for these products, our revenue would be reduced and, as a result, our business, prospects and financial condition could be harmed.. 44. TABLE OF CONTENTS. If efforts by developers and manufacturers of reference products to delay or limit the use of biosimilars are successful, our sales of biosimilar products may suffer.. Many developers and manufacturers of reference products have increasingly used legislative, regulatory and other means to delay regulatory approval and to seek to restrict competition from manufacturers of biosimilars. These efforts may include or have included:. •. settling patent lawsuits with biosimilar companies, resulting in such patents remaining an obstacle for biosimilar approval by others; submitting Citizen Petitions to request the FDA Commissioner to take administrative action with respect to prospective and submitted biosimilar applications;. •. appealing denials of Citizen Petitions in United States federal district courts and seeking injunctive relief to reverse approval of biosimilar applications;. •. restricting access to reference brand products for equivalence and biosimilarity testing that interferes with timely biosimilar development plans;. •. attempting to influence potential market share by conducting medical education with physicians, payors, regulators and patients claiming that biosimilar products are too complex for biosimilar approval or are too dissimilar from reference products to be trusted as safe and effective alternatives;. •. implementing payor market access tactics that benefit their brands at the expense of biosimilars;. •. seeking state law restrictions on the substitution of biosimilar products at the pharmacy without the intervention of a physician or through other restrictive means such as excessive recordkeeping requirements or patient and physician notification;. •. seeking federal or state regulatory restrictions on the use of the same nonproprietary name as the reference brand product for a biosimilar or interchangeable biologic;. •. seeking changes to the United States Pharmacopeia, an industry-recognized compilation of drug and biologic standards;. •. obtaining new patents covering existing products or processes that could extend patent exclusivity for a number of years or otherwise delay the launch of biosimilars; and. •. influencing legislatures so that they attach special patent extension amendments to unrelated federal legislation.. If an improved version of a reference product, such as Humira, Avastin or Herceptin, is developed or if the market for the reference product significantly declines, sales or potential sales of our biosimilar product candidates may suffer.. Originator companies may develop improved, or \"biobetter,\" versions of a reference product or change the product formulation as part of a life cycle extension strategy and may obtain regulatory approval of the improved version under a new or supplemental BLA filed with the applicable regulatory authority. If the originator company succeeds in obtaining an approval of an improved biologic product, it may capture a significant share of the collective reference product market in the applicable jurisdiction and significantly reduce the market for the reference product and thereby the potential size of the market for our biosimilar product candidates. For example, AbbVie has obtained approval in the United States and Europe of an improved formulation of Humira that reduces injection pain, injection volume and potentially the number of injections a patient receives. Switching existing patients to biobetter versions reduces the available market size for a biosimilar. In addition, the improved product may be protected by additional patent rights that may subject our follow-on biosimilar product to claims of infringement.. Biologic reference products may also face competition as technological advances are made that may offer patients a more convenient form of administration or increased efficacy or as new products are introduced. As new products are approved that compete with the reference products to our biosimilar product candidates, sales of the reference products may be adversely impacted or rendered obsolete. If the market. 45. TABLE OF CONTENTS. for the reference product is impacted, we may lose significant market share or experience limited market potential for our approved biosimilar products or product candidates, and the value of our product pipeline could be negatively impacted. As a result of the above factors, our business, prospects and financial condition could be harmed.. The commercial success of any current or future product candidate will depend upon the degree of market acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payors and others in the medical community.. Even with the requisite approvals from the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities, the commercial success of our product candidates will depend in part on the medical community, patients and third-party payors accepting our product candidates as medically useful, cost-effective and safe. Any product that we bring to the market may not gain market acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payors and others in the medical community. The degree of market acceptance of any of our product candidates, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including but not limited to:. •. the safety and efficacy of the product as demonstrated to be \"highly similar\" in clinical trials, and potential advantages over competing treatments and the reference product;. •. labeling or naming imposed by FDA or other regulatory agencies that suggest clinical differences between the product and the reference product;. •. the publication of unfavorable safety or efficacy data concerning our product by third-parties;. •. the prevalence and severity of any side effects, including any limitations or warnings contained in a product's approved labeling;. •. the clinical indications for which approval is granted;. •. whether we achieve an interchangeability designation in the United States, and if such designation has a material effect on the perception of equivalence;. •. the possibility that a competitor may achieve interchangeability and we may not;. •. relative convenience and ease of administration as compared to the reference product;. •. the extent to which our product may be more or less similar to the reference product than competing biosimilar product candidates;. •. recognition and acceptance of our product candidates over our competitors' products;. •. prevalence of the disease or condition for which the product is approved;. •. the cost of treatment, particularly in relation to competing treatments;. •. the willingness of the target patient population to try biosimilar therapies and of physicians to prescribe these therapies;. •. the strength of marketing and distribution support and timing of market introduction of competitive products;. •. the extent to which the product is approved for inclusion on formularies of hospitals and managed care organizations;. •. publicity concerning our products or competing products and treatments;. •. the extent to which third-party payors provide coverage and adequate reimbursement for our product candidates, if approved; and. •. our ability to maintain compliance with regulatory requirements.. 46. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Moreover, the market success of a biosimilar product, including widespread patient and doctor acceptance, may ultimately depend on whether it receives an interchangeability designation. This is particularly true if one or more competing biosimilars receives such a designation. Future laws and drug formulary rules requiring or facilitating automatic substitution of biosimilars for reference products at the pharmacy level may also be limited to biosimilars that have received an interchangeable designation.. The labeling requirements for a biosimilar product have not been fully developed and there is uncertainty as to how much of the reference product label a biosimilar applicant may or must copy, and the extent to which the applicant must distinguish its product from the reference product. The naming of biosimilars is also subject to significant uncertainty, and it is unclear whether biosimilar products will be required to bear names that distinguish them from their reference products. Differences between the labels and names of the biosimilar and reference product may make it more difficult for us to achieve market uptake for our product.. Even if our product candidate displays an equivalent or more favorable efficacy and safety profile in preclinical and clinical trials, market acceptance of the product candidate will not be fully known until after it is launched and may be negatively affected by a potential poor safety experience and the track record of other biosimilar product candidates. If market acceptance of our product is less than that of the reference product or competing biosimilars, the price of the product may need to be reduced or we may need to implement additional marketing endeavors in order to accrue market share, which will negatively affect profitability. Our efforts to educate the medical community and third-party payors on the benefits of our product candidates may require significant resources, may be under-resourced compared to large well-funded pharmaceutical entities and may never be successful. If our product candidates are approved but fail to achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payors and others in the medical community, we will not be able to generate sufficient revenue to become or remain profitable.. We currently have no marketing and sales organization. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities in jurisdictions for which we choose to retain commercialization rights, we may be unable to generate any revenue.. We currently have no marketing or sales organization. Our products have not yet been approved for sale, and we, as a company, have no experience selling and marketing our product candidates. To successfully commercialize any products that may result from our development programs, we will need to develop these capabilities, either on our own or with others. If our product candidates receive regulatory approval, we intend to establish a sales and marketing organization with technical expertise and supporting distribution capabilities to commercialize our product candidates in major markets where we may choose to retain commercialization rights. Doing so will be expensive, difficult and time-consuming. Any failure or delay in the development of our internal sales, marketing and distribution capabilities would adversely impact the commercialization of our products. Further, given our lack of prior experience in marketing and selling biosimilar products, our initial estimate of the size of the required sales force may be materially more or less than the size of the sales force actually required to effectively commercialize our product candidates. As such, we may be required to hire substantially more sales representatives and medical support liaisons to adequately support the commercialization of our product candidates or we may incur excess costs as a result of hiring more sales representatives than necessary. With respect to certain geographical markets, we may enter into collaborations with other entities to utilize their local marketing and distribution capabilities, but we may be unable to enter into such agreements on favorable terms, if at all. If our future collaboration partners do not commit sufficient resources to commercialize our future products, if any, and we are unable to develop the necessary marketing capabilities on our own, we will be unable to generate sufficient product revenue to sustain our business. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities for any approved product, whether on our own or through collaborations, our results of operations will be negatively impacted.. We may need to enter into alliances with other companies that can provide capabilities and funds for the development and commercialization of our product candidates. If we are unsuccessful in forming or maintaining these alliances on favorable terms, our business could be harmed.. Because we are a clinical stage biopharmaceutical company, we have found it necessary to enter into alliances with other companies. For example, we entered into service agreements with the Center for Human. 47. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Drug Research and InVentiv Health Clinical, LLC, or InVentiv, to assist us in conducting our Phase 1 clinical trials and with InVentiv in preparation for conducting Phase 3 clinical trials for ONS-3010 and ONS-1045. Aside from our joint participation agreement with Huahai for ONS-3010, we do not have any agreements for the development and commercialization of our biosimilar product candidates for any major ex-U.S. markets, such as the EU and Japan. To date, we only have such agreements for smaller ex-U.S.markets. In particular, we entered into a co-development and license agreement with Huahai to co-develop ONS-3010 and ONS-1045 for Huahai to commercialize in the greater China region; a license agreement with Liomont to develop and commercialize ONS-3010 and ONS-1045 in Mexico; a license and collaboration agreements with IPCA to develop and commercialize ONS-3010, ONS-1045 and ONS-1050 in India, Sri-Lanka, Myanmar, Nepal and Bhutan; and a joint development and license agreement with GMS Tenshi to develop and commercialize ONS-3010 and ONS-1045 in emerging markets, excluding China, India and Mexico. In the future, we may also find it necessary to form other alliances or joint ventures with major pharmaceutical companies to jointly develop and/or commercialize specific biosimilar product candidates. In such alliances, we would expect our collaboration partners to provide substantial capabilities in regulatory affairs, as well as sales and marketing. We may not be successful in entering into any such alliances. Even if we do succeed in securing such alliances, we may not be able to maintain them if, for example, development or approval of a product candidate is delayed or sales of an approved product are disappointing. If we are unable to secure or maintain such alliances we may not have the capabilities necessary to continue or complete development of our product candidates and bring them to market, which may have an adverse effect on our business.. In addition to commercialization capabilities, we may depend on our alliances with other companies to provide substantial additional funding for development and potential commercialization of our product candidates. We may not be able to obtain funding on favorable terms from these alliances, and if we are not successful in doing so, we may not have sufficient funds to develop a particular product candidate internally or to bring product candidates to market. Failure to bring our product candidates to market will prevent us from generating sales revenue, and this will substantially harm our business. Furthermore, any delay in entering into these alliances could delay the development and commercialization of our product candidates and reduce their competitiveness even if they reach the market. As a result, our business and operating results may be harmed.. Policies and practices governing the naming of biosimilar product candidates are neither fully established nor fully harmonized and are subject to debate and change. Failure to achieve a nonproprietary name sufficiently close to the reference product or be competitively disadvantaged in this regard, could adversely affect the commercial performance of our biosimilar product candidate.. United States Adopted Name, or USAN, and International Nonproprietary Names, or INN, two important bodies involved in nonproprietary nomenclature, have no policy for the naming of biosimilar product candidates, and products are named on a case by case basis. Non-glycosylated proteins can follow the approach established for small molecule generics, which is to retain the same nonproprietary name if it is synthesized by a different route provided the substance is the same. Glycosylated proteins from different sources are given distinct names, as these proteins are expected to differ in their glycosylation profile. The same approach is valid for all other modifications to the protein that can occur in a cell after the cell has finished making the protein. A system currently under discussion at the World Health Organization that would enable the clear definition of all similar biotherapeutic proteins would include the INN of the reference product in the first part of the name, and some form of biological qualifier that could uniquely identify the substance. Currently the FDA and EMA have final authority regarding names in the United States and the EU, respectively, and it is unclear how they will handle nonproprietary nomenclature in the future. However, recent draft FDA guidance has recommended an approach to distinguish product manufacturers of the reference biologic, biosimilars, interchangeables, and related biologics by establishing nonproprietary names that are distinct from the reference product. For the reference biologic, FDA intends to use as a \"core name\" the name adopted by the USAN Council for the drug substance. For a biosimilar, interchangeable, or related biologic, the core name is the name of the drug substance contained in the relevant previously licensed product.. Under FDA's proposed approach, the nonproprietary name designated for reference biologics, related biologics, and biosimilars will include a unique suffix in addition to the core name. FDA is seeking comment on whether the nonproprietary name for an interchangeable product should include a unique. 48. TABLE OF CONTENTS. suffix, or should share the same suffix as its reference product. This policy could suggest to payors, providers and patients that our biosimilar product is different from the reference product, which may negatively affect the price we can charge, our sales and market share, which could harm our business. Notably, by affixing a random four letter suffix to the USAN, there is a potential for misuse that could cause misreporting of adverse events or otherwise to the wrong biosimilar product. If our biosimilars were wrongly reported as having caused adverse events or other negative outcomes, it could affect our brand and negatively harm our business.. The third-party coverage and reimbursement status of newly approved products is uncertain. Failure to obtain or maintain adequate coverage and reimbursement for new or current products could limit our ability to market those products and decrease our ability to generate revenue.. Pricing, coverage and reimbursement of our biosimilar product candidates, if approved, may not be adequate to support our commercial infrastructure. Our per-patient prices may not be sufficient to recover our development and manufacturing costs and potentially achieve profitability. The availability and adequacy of coverage and reimbursement by governmental and private payors are essential for most patients to be able to afford expensive treatments such as ours, if approved. Accordingly, sales of our product candidates will depend substantially, both domestically and abroad, on the extent to which the costs of our product candidates will be paid for by health maintenance, managed care, pharmacy benefit and similar healthcare management organizations or reimbursed by government authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors. If coverage and reimbursement are not available, or are available only at insufficient levels, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our product candidates. Coverage decisions may depend upon clinical and economic standards that disfavor new drug products when more established or lower cost therapeutic alternatives are already available or subsequently become available. Even if coverage is provided, the approved reimbursement amount may not be adequate to allow us to establish or maintain pricing sufficient to realize a return on our investment.. There is significant uncertainty related to third-party coverage and reimbursement of newly approved products. In the United States, third-party payors, including private and governmental payors such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs, play an important role in determining the extent to which new drugs and biologics will be covered and reimbursed. The Medicare program covers certain individuals aged 65 or older or those who are disabled or suffering from end-stage renal disease. The Medicaid program, which varies from state to state, covers certain individuals and families who have limited financial means and/or certain disabilities. The Medicare and Medicaid programs increasingly are used as models for how private payors and other governmental payors develop their coverage and reimbursement policies for drugs and biologics. It is difficult to predict at this time what third-party payors will decide with respect to the coverage and reimbursement for our biosimilar product candidates, if approved. In addition, in the United States, no uniform policy of coverage and reimbursement for biologics exists among third-party payors. Therefore, coverage and reimbursement for biologics can differ significantly from payor to payor. As a result, the process for seeking favorable coverage determinations often is time-consuming and costly and may require us to provide scientific and clinical support for the use of our products to each payor separately, with no assurance that coverage and adequate reimbursement will be obtained. Our inability to promptly obtain coverage and profitable reimbursement rates from both government-funded and private payors for any approved products that we develop could have an adverse effect on our operating results, our ability to raise capital needed to commercialize products and our overall financial condition.. Outside the United States, pharmaceutical businesses are generally subject to extensive governmental price controls and other market regulations. We believe the increasing emphasis on cost-containment initiatives in the EU, Canada and other countries has and will continue to put pressure on the pricing and usage of our product candidates. In many countries, the prices of medical products are subject to varying price control mechanisms as part of national health systems. Other countries allow companies to fix their own prices for medical products, but monitor and control company profits. Additional foreign price controls or other changes in pricing regulation could restrict the amount that we are able to charge for our product candidates. Accordingly, in markets outside the United States, the reimbursement for our products may be reduced compared with the United States and may be insufficient to generate commercially reasonable revenue and profits.. 49. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Moreover, increasing efforts by governmental and third-party payors in the United States and abroad to control healthcare costs may cause such organizations to limit both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new products approved and, as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our product candidates. While cost containment practices generally benefit biosimilars, severe cost containment practices may adversely affect our product sales. We expect to experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of any of our product candidates due to the trend toward managed healthcare, the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations and additional legislative changes.. Our biosimilar product candidates, if approved, will face price competition from both the respective reference products and other biosimilars. This price competition could exceed our capacity to respond, negatively impacting our market share and revenue as well as adversely affecting the overall financial health and attractiveness of the market for the biosimilar.. Successful competitors in the biosimilar market will likely have the ability to effectively compete on price through payors and their third-party administrators who exert downward pricing pressure. It is possible our competitors' compliance with price discounting demands in exchange for market share could exceed our capacity to respond in kind and reduce market prices beyond our expectations. In addition, the RPS may compete effectively on price and limit our ability to accrue market share. Such practices may limit our and our collaboration partners' ability to increase market share and will also impact profitability.. Risks Related to Our Reliance on Third Parties. We rely on third parties to conduct our preclinical and clinical trials and perform other tasks for us. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties, meet expected deadlines or comply with regulatory requirements, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates and our business could be harmed.. We have relied upon and plan to continue to rely upon CROs to monitor and manage data for our ongoing preclinical and clinical programs. We rely on these parties for execution of our preclinical and clinical trials and we can only control certain aspects of their activities. Nevertheless, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our studies is conducted in accordance with the applicable protocol, legal, regulatory and scientific requirements and standards and our reliance on the CROs does not relieve us of our regulatory responsibilities. We and our CROs and other vendors are required to comply with cGMP, GCP, and Good Laboratory Practices, or GLP, which are regulations and guidelines enforced by the FDA, the Competent Authorities of the Member States of the EEA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities for all of our product candidates in clinical development. Regulatory authorities enforce these regulations through periodic inspections of study sponsors, principal investigators, study sites and other contractors. If we, any of our CROs, service providers or investigators fail to comply with applicable regulations or GCPs, the data generated in our preclinical and clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA, EMA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may require us to perform additional preclinical and clinical trials before approving our marketing applications. We cannot assure you that upon inspection by a given regulatory authority, such regulatory authority will determine that any of our clinical trials comply with GCP requirements. In addition, our clinical trials must be conducted with products produced under cGMP regulations. Failure to comply by any of the participating parties or ourselves with these regulations may require us to repeat clinical trials, which would delay the regulatory approval process. Moreover, our business may be implicated if our CROs or any other participating parties violate federal or state fraud and abuse or false claims laws and regulations or healthcare privacy and security laws.. If any of our relationships with any of these third-party CROs terminate, we may not be able to enter into arrangements with alternative CROs or do so on commercially reasonable terms. In addition, our CROs are not our employees, and except for remedies available to us under our agreements with such CROs, we cannot control whether or not they devote sufficient time and resources to our on-going preclinical and clinical programs. If CROs do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, if they need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our protocols, regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our product candidates. CROs may also generate higher costs than anticipated. As a result, our results of operations and the commercial prospects for our product candidates would be harmed, our costs could increase and our ability to generate revenue could be delayed.. 50. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Changing or adding additional CROs involves additional cost and requires management time and focus. In addition, there is a natural transition period when a new CRO commences work. As a result, delays may occur, which can negatively impact our ability to meet our desired clinical development timelines. We may encounter challenges or delays in the future and these delays or challenges may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and prospects.. We manufacture bulk drug substance for preclinical and clinical supplies of our product candidates in our in-house facility, and intend to do the same for other companies. We also intend to manufacture bulk drug substance for commercial sale in our facility. Our business could be harmed if our facility is damaged or we otherwise fail to manufacture our product candidates at the necessary quantity or quality levels.. If we are unable to manufacture sufficient supplies of our product candidates, our development efforts would be delayed, which would adversely affect our business and prospects. In addition, our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect supplies of our product candidates or any other product candidates or products that we may develop.. If any of our product candidates are approved, in order to produce the quantities necessary to meet anticipated market demand, we may need to increase our manufacturing capacity. If we are unable to produce our product candidates and in sufficient quantities to meet the requirements for the launch of these products or to meet future demand, our revenue and gross margins could be adversely affected.. Our manufacturing depends on our suppliers. For single-use technology, we depend on specialty-manufactured bags and our reliability on the supply of such bags can impact manufacturing. In addition, the quality of such bags may vary, and in certain rare circumstances, the bag components may leak into the product, which would make the product unsuitable. We also depend on the timely supply and quality of all raw materials, which are crucial to the successful manufacturing of our products. Further, we depend on our fill-finish partners to ensure quality products and our partners' failure to deliver a consistent supply of high-quality products is a risk to the business.. We have never manufactured commercial scale quantities in our facilities and we may face challenges in ensuring a consistent supply for global markets.. Any adverse developments affecting the manufacturing operations of our biosimilar product candidates could substantially increase our costs and limit supply for our product candidates.. The process of manufacturing our product candidates is complex, highly regulated and subject to several risks, including but not limited to:. •. failure to establish contracts with fill-finish contract manufacturing organization or CMOs, and device vendors;. •. product loss due to contamination, equipment failure or improper installation or operation of equipment or vendor or operator error;. •. failure to maintain fermentation or other manufacturing conditions necessary to achieving biosimilarity to the reference product;. •. infringing intellectual property rights of third parties relating to manufacturing and quality testing;. •. failure to achieve or maintain compliance with FDA's requirements for acceptance of our manufacturing facilities; and. •. labor shortages, natural disasters and power failures.. Even minor deviations from normal manufacturing processes for any of our product candidates could result in reduced production yields, product defects and other supply disruptions. In addition, if we require a change in CMO, this will add time along with financial and personnel resources to change manufacturing sites. If microbial, viral or other contaminations are discovered in our product candidates or in our manufacturing facilities, our facilities may need to be closed for an extended period of time to investigate and remedy the contamination.. 51. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Any adverse developments affecting manufacturing operations for our product candidates may result in shipment delays, inventory shortages, lot failures, withdrawals or recalls or other interruptions in the supply of our product candidates. We may also have to take inventory write-offs and incur other charges and expenses for product candidates that fail to meet specifications, undertake costly remediation efforts or seek more costly manufacturing alternatives.. We expect to depend on third parties for the commercialization of our biosimilar product candidates, and their failure to commercialize in those markets could harm our business and operating results.. We will need to identify third-parties and then negotiate the terms of the development and commercialization agreements for the United States and major ex-U.S. markets, such as the EU and Japan. We may not be successful in identifying contract counterparties, and we may not be able to reach agreements with such parties on terms that are as favorable to our company as we would anticipate. We currently have in place only one licensing agreement for commercialization in the United States. Our other current arrangements are for smaller ex-U.S. markets where we would not otherwise intend to commercialize our biosimilar product candidates, such as China, Mexico and India, among others. If these entities fail to exercise commercially reasonable efforts to market and sell our products in their respective licensed jurisdictions or are otherwise ineffective in doing so, our business will be harmed and we may not be able to adequately remedy the harm through negotiation, litigation, arbitration or termination of the license agreements.. Moreover, any disputes with our collaboration partners concerning the adequacy of their commercialization efforts will substantially divert the attention of our senior management from other business activities and will require us to incur substantial legal costs to fund litigation or arbitration proceedings.. In the event that any of our license agreements terminate, we may need to find another partner in those markets to commercialize and in certain instances, manufacture our biosimilar product candidates. Further, upon any such termination, our contract counterparties may still have the right to commercialize these biosimilar product candidates in such markets, which may affect our ability to commercialize in the same markets.. We are required to co-fund the development of, and proportionately share in the revenue from, the commercialization of ONS-3010 in the United States, Canada, EU, Japan, Australia and New Zealand under a joint participation agreement with Huahai. We may also be required to form a joint venture to further co-develop and commercialize ONS-3010 with Huahai in the agreed countries, if so requested by Huahai.. We currently have a joint participation arrangement with Huahai that provides for the co-funding of the development of ONS-3010 in the United States, Canada, EU, Japan, Australia and New Zealand and the proportionate sharing of the revenue from commercialization of ONS-3010 in such countries. We could also be required to further co-develop and commercialize ONS-3010 with Huahai in the agreed countries pursuant to a joint venture, if so requested by Huahai, as contemplated by our joint participation agreement. Under the joint participation agreement, assuming Huahai funds its proportionate share of development costs incurred after completion of the \"Phase-3 Ready Package\" for ONS-3010, we will have a 49% value ownership interest with Huahai having a 51% value ownership interest in ONS-3010. Accordingly, our share of any potential revenues from the successful commercialization of ONS-3010 in the agreed countries, including major markets such as the United States and EU, would also be in proportion to such ownership interests. While we anticipate that we will each act in accordance with the terms of our agreement for the joint development and commercialization of ONS-3010, we cannot control Huahai, nor can we predict with any certainty that our interests will be aligned and that we will successfully collaborate.. We entered into a lease for additional manufacturing and research and development space and our business may be interrupted if these facilities are not ready for occupation in time to implement our expansion efforts, which could impact our ability to advance our early-stage preclinical pipeline and any future product candidates.. We entered into a lease for a new facility in our current industrial complex, which commenced in March 2016. We may build-out this facility as an additional state-of-the-art development infrastructure, which we will occupy in phases, as needed. There can be no assurance that the new space will be prepared. 52. TABLE OF CONTENTS. and ready in time for our move-in, or we may never need the facility. Further, the expansion could disrupt our current development and manufacturing operations, resulting in an inability to meet our deadlines and leading to a slow realization of the efficiencies and capacity anticipated from such expansion. Adverse consequences resulting from a delay in the expansion could harm our relationships with our license and collaboration partners, and further affect our ability to develop and commercialize our biosimilar product candidates. In addition, such expansions of our manufacturing and research and development capabilities may increase our costs. Any of the above could delay regulatory approval and commercialization of our current early-stage preclinical and future biosimilar product candidates. All of the foregoing could result in substantial costs to us and could result in material interruption to our business and operations.. We currently engage single source suppliers for clinical trial services and multiple source suppliers for fill-finish manufacturing and product testing of our biosimilar product candidates. The loss of any of these suppliers, or any future single source suppliers, could harm our business.. Our current clinical stage biosimilar product candidates were fill-finished by Ajinomoto Althea, Inc., or Althea. As such, we are heavily dependent on Althea for supplying us with finished product candidates. Although we believe that there are alternate sources for this service, we cannot assure you that identifying and establishing new relationships would not result in significant delay in the development of our biosimilar product candidates. Additionally, we may not be able to enter into arrangements with alternative vendors on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. A delay in the development of our biosimilar product candidates or having to enter into a new agreement with a different third party on less favorable terms than we have with our current suppliers could negatively impact our business.. We are subject to significant regulation with respect to manufacturing our product candidates. Our manufacturing facilities may not continue to meet regulatory requirements or may not be able to meet supply demands.. Components of a finished therapeutic product approved for commercial sale or used in late-stage clinical trials must be manufactured in accordance with cGMP and other applicable regulations. These regulations govern manufacturing processes and procedures (including record keeping) and the implementation and operation of quality systems to control and assure the quality of investigational products and products approved for sale. Poor control of production processes can lead to the introduction of contaminants or to inadvertent changes in the properties or stability of our product candidates that may not be detectable in final product testing. We must supply all necessary documentation in support of a BLA or MAA on a timely basis and must adhere to GLP and cGMP regulations enforced by the FDA and other regulatory agencies through their facilities inspection program. We have never produced a commercially approved pharmaceutical product at our facilities and therefore have not obtained the requisite regulatory authority approvals to do so. Our facilities and quality systems must pass a pre-approval inspection for compliance with the applicable regulations as a condition of regulatory approval of our product candidates or any of our other potential products. In addition, the regulatory authorities may, at any time, audit or inspect our manufacturing facility or our associated quality systems for compliance with the regulations applicable to the activities being conducted. If our facilities do not pass a pre-approval facility inspection, regulatory approval of the products may not be granted or may be substantially delayed until any violations are corrected to the satisfaction of the regulatory authority, if ever.. The regulatory authorities also may, at any time following approval of a product for sale, audit our manufacturing facilities. If any such inspection or audit identifies a failure to comply with applicable regulations or if a violation of our product specifications or applicable regulations occurs independent of such an inspection or audit, the relevant regulatory authority may require remedial measures that may be costly and time-consuming for us to implement and that may include the temporary or permanent suspension of a clinical trial or commercial sales or the temporary or permanent closure of our facility. Any such remedial measures could harm our business.. If we fail to maintain regulatory compliance, the FDA or other applicable regulatory authority can impose regulatory sanctions including, among other things, refusal to approve a pending application for a new biologic product, withdrawal of an approval or suspension of production. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed.. 53. TABLE OF CONTENTS. These factors could cause us to incur higher costs and could cause the delay or termination of clinical trials, regulatory submissions, required approvals or commercialization of our product candidates.. Risks Related to Intellectual Property. If we infringe or are alleged to infringe intellectual property rights of third parties, our business could be harmed. Third-party claims of intellectual property infringement may prevent or delay our development and commercialization efforts.. Our commercial success depends in large part on avoiding infringement of the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. There have been many lawsuits and other proceedings involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical industry, including patent infringement lawsuits, interferences, oppositions and reexamination proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, and corresponding foreign patent offices. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields in which we are developing product candidates. As the pharmaceutical industry expands and more patents are issued, the risk increases that our product candidates may be subject to claims of infringement of the patent rights of third parties.. Our research, development and commercialization activities may infringe or otherwise violate or be claimed to infringe or otherwise violate patents owned or controlled by other parties. The companies that originated the products for which we intend to introduce biosimilar versions, such as AbbVie, Inc., or AbbVie, and Genentech, Inc., or Genentech, as well as other competitors (including other companies developing biosimilars) have developed worldwide patent portfolios of varying sizes and breadth, many of which are in fields relating to our business, and it may not always be clear to industry participants, including us, which patents cover various types of products, formulations, manufacturing processes or methods of use.. Third parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. There may be third-party patents or patent applications with claims to compositions, formulations, methods of manufacture or methods for treatment related to the use or manufacture of our product candidates. We have conducted patent searches for third-party patents with respect to each of our lead product candidates, and are aware of third-party patent families with claims that, if valid and enforceable, could be construed to cover such product candidates or their respective methods of manufacture or use. Some of these patents have expiration dates that could extend reference product exclusivity past our anticipated product launch dates. We cannot guarantee that any of our analyses are complete and thorough, nor can we be sure that we have identified each and every patent and pending application in the United States and abroad that is relevant or necessary to the commercialization of our product candidates. Moreover, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending patent applications that may later result in issued patents covering our product candidates. We have not yet completed freedom to operate analysis on our early-stage pipeline or products we are evaluating for inclusion in our future biosimilar product pipeline and therefore, we do not know whether or to what extent these products may be subject to unexpired patents. The existence of any patent with valid and enforceable claims covering one or more of our product candidates could cause substantial delays in our ability to introduce a biosimilar candidate into the U.S. market if the term of such patent extends beyond our desired product launch date.. There may also be patent applications that have been filed but not published and if such applications issue as patents, they could be asserted against us. For example, in most cases, a patent filed today would not become known to industry participants for at least 18 months given patent rules applicable in most jurisdictions that do not require publication of patent applications until 18 months after filing. Moreover, we may face claims from non-practicing third-party entities that have no relevant product revenue and against whom our own patent portfolio may have no deterrent effect. In addition, the scope of patent claims is subject to interpretation by the courts, and the interpretation is not always uniform. If we are sued for patent infringement, we would need to demonstrate that our product candidates, products or methods either do not infringe the asserted patent claims or that the claims are invalid and/or unenforceable, and we may not be successful.. Proving that a patent is invalid or unenforceable is difficult. For example, in the United States, proving invalidity requires a showing of clear and convincing evidence to overcome the presumption of validity enjoyed by issued patents. In proceedings before courts in the EU, the burden of proving invalidity of a. 54. TABLE OF CONTENTS. patent also usually rests on the party alleging invalidity. Even if we are successful in litigation, we may incur substantial costs and the time and attention of our management and scientific personnel could be diverted, which could harm our business. In addition, we may not have sufficient resources to bring these actions to a successful conclusion.. Third parties could bring claims against us that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful against us, could cause us to pay substantial monetary damages. The outcome of intellectual property litigation is subject to uncertainties that cannot be adequately quantified in advance. If a patent infringement suit were brought against us, we could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of the product or product candidate that is the subject of the suit. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we are unable to enter into licenses on commercially acceptable terms or at all. If, as a result of patent infringement claims or to avoid potential claims, we choose or are required to seek licenses from third parties, these licenses may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. Even if we are able to obtain a license, the license may obligate us to pay substantial license fees or royalties or both, and the rights granted to us might be nonexclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property.. Parties making claims against us may obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability to further develop and commercialize one or more of our product candidates. Defense of these claims, regardless of their merit, would likely involve substantial litigation expense and would likely be a substantial diversion of employee resources from our business. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may, in addition to being blocked from the market, have to pay substantial monetary damages, including treble damages and attorneys' fees for willful infringement, pay royalties, redesign our infringing products or obtain one or more licenses from third parties, which may be impossible or require substantial time and monetary expenditure.. In addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent litigation and other proceedings, including interference, derivation or post-grant proceedings declared or granted by the USPTO and similar proceedings in foreign countries, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our current or future products. An unfavorable outcome in any such proceedings could require us to cease using the related technology or to attempt to license rights to it from the prevailing party or could cause us to lose valuable intellectual property rights. Our business could be harmed if the prevailing party does not offer us a license on commercially reasonable terms, if any license is offered at all. Litigation or other proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and distract our management and other employees. We may also become involved in disputes with others regarding the ownership of intellectual property rights.. Third parties may submit applications for patent term extensions in the United States or other jurisdictions where similar extensions are available and/or Supplementary Protection Certificates in the EU states (including Switzerland) seeking to extend certain patent protection that, if approved, may interfere with or delay the launch of one or more of our biosimilar product candidates.. The cost to us of any patent litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Patent litigation and other proceedings may fail, and even if successful, may result in substantial costs and distract our management and other employees. The companies that originated the products for which we intend to introduce biosimilar versions, as well as other competitors (including other biosimilar companies) may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could impair our ability to compete in the marketplace.. So called \"submarine\" patents may be granted to our competitors that may significantly alter our launch timing expectations, reduce our projected market size, cause us to modify our product or process or block us from the market altogether.. The term \"submarine\" patent has been used in the pharmaceutical industry and in other industries to denote a patent issuing from a U.S. application with an effective filing date prior to June 8, 1995 that was not published, publically known or available prior to its grant. Submarine patents add substantial risk and. 55. TABLE OF CONTENTS. uncertainty to our business. Submarine patents may be issued to our competitors covering our biosimilar product candidates or our pipeline candidates and thereby cause significant market entry delay, defeat our ability to market our product candidates or cause us to abandon development and/or commercialization of a product candidate.. The issuance of one or more submarine patents may harm our business by causing substantial delays in our ability to introduce a biosimilar candidate into the U.S. market.. We may not identify relevant patents or may incorrectly interpret the relevance, scope or expiration of a patent, which might adversely affect our ability to develop and market our products.. We cannot guarantee that any of our patent searches or analyses, including but not limited to the identification of relevant patents, the scope of patent claims or the expiration of relevant patents, are complete and thorough, nor can we be certain that we have identified each and every patent and pending application in the United States and abroad that is relevant to or necessary for the commercialization of our product candidates in any jurisdiction.. The scope of a patent claim is determined by an interpretation of the law, the written disclosure in a patent and the patent's prosecution history. Our interpretation of the relevance or the scope of a patent or a pending application may be incorrect, which may negatively impact our ability to market our products or pipeline candidates. We may incorrectly determine that our products are not covered by a third party patent. Further, we may conclude that a well-informed court or other tribunal would find the claims of a relevant third-party patent to be invalid based on prior art, enablement, written description, or other ground, and that conclusion may be incorrect, which may negatively impact our ability to market our products or pipeline molecules.. Many patents may cover a marketed product, including but not limited to the composition of the product, methods of use, formulations, cell line constructs, vectors, growth media, production processes and purification processes. The identification of all patents and their expiration dates relevant to the production and sale of a reference product is extraordinarily complex and requires sophisticated legal knowledge in the relevant jurisdiction. It may be impossible to identify all patents in all jurisdictions relevant to a marketed product. We may not identify all relevant patents, or incorrectly determine their expiration dates, which may negatively impact our ability to develop and market our products.. Our failure to identify and correctly interpret relevant patents may negatively impact our ability to develop, market and commercialize our products.. We may become involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce any future patents, which could be expensive, time-consuming and unsuccessful.. Although we have no issued patents, when and if we do obtain issued patents, we may discover that competitors are infringing those patents. Expensive and time-consuming litigation may be required to enforce our patents. If we or one of our collaboration partners were to initiate legal proceedings against a third party to enforce a patent covering one of our product candidates, the defendant could counterclaim that the patent covering our product candidate is invalid and/or unenforceable. In patent litigation in the United States, defendant counterclaims alleging invalidity and/or unenforceability are commonplace. Grounds for a validity challenge could be an alleged failure to meet any of several statutory requirements, including but not limited to lack of novelty, obviousness or non-enablement. Grounds for an unenforceability assertion could include an allegation that someone involved in the prosecution of the patent withheld relevant or material information related to the patentability of the invention from the USPTO or made a misleading statement during prosecution. The outcome following legal assertions of invalidity and unenforceability is unpredictable, and there is a risk that a court will decide that a patent of ours is invalid or unenforceable, in whole or in part, and that we do not have the right to stop the other party from using the invention at issue. There is also a risk that, even if the validity of such patents is upheld, the court will construe the patent's claims narrowly and decide that we do not have the right to stop the other party from using the invention at issue on the grounds that our patent claims do not cover the invention. An adverse outcome in a litigation or proceeding involving our patents could limit our ability to assert our patents against those parties or other competitors, and may curtail or preclude our ability to. 56. TABLE OF CONTENTS. exclude third parties from making and selling similar or competitive products. Any of these occurrences could adversely affect our competitive business position, business prospects and financial condition. Even if we establish infringement, the court may decide not to grant an injunction against further infringing activity and instead award only monetary damages, which may or may not be an adequate remedy.. Similarly, if we assert trademark infringement claims, a court may determine that the marks we have asserted are invalid or unenforceable, or that the party against whom we have asserted trademark infringement has superior rights to the marks in question. In this case, we could ultimately be forced to cease use of such trademarks.. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during any litigation we initiate to enforce our patents. There could also be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a negative impact on the market price of our securities. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient financial or other resources to file and pursue such infringement claims, which typically last for years before they are concluded. Even if we ultimately prevail in such claims, the monetary cost of such litigation and the diversion of the attention of our management and scientific personnel could outweigh any benefit we receive as a result of the proceedings.. We may be subject to claims that our employees, consultants or independent contractors have wrongfully used or disclosed confidential information of third parties or that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers.. We employ individuals and retain independent contractors and consultants and members on our board of directors who were previously employed at universities or other pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. For example, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Pankaj Mohan, Ph.D., our Chief Medical Officer, Kenneth M. Bahrt, M.D., our Senior Vice President of Business Strategy & Development, Stephen J. McAndrew, Ph.D., and our Vice President of Regulatory Affairs, Elizabeth A. Yamashita, are former employees of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company. Further, Dr. Mohan and Dr. Bahrt are former employees of Genentech, which is the reference product sponsor of bevacizumab (Avastin), for which we seek to develop ONS-1045 as a biosimilar, and trastuzumab (Herceptin), for which we seek to develop ONS-1050 as a biosimilar. Additionally, Dr. McAndrew was a former employee of Roche. Although we try to ensure that our employees, consultants and independent contractors do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us and we are not currently subject to any claims that they have done so, we may in the future be subject to such claims. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel, which could adversely impact our business. Even if we are successful in defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management and other employees.. In addition, while we typically require our employees, consultants and contractors who may be involved in the development of intellectual property to execute agreements assigning such intellectual property to us, we may be unsuccessful in executing such an agreement with each party who in fact develops intellectual property that we regard as our own, which may result in claims by or against us asserting ownership of such intellectual property. If we fail in prosecuting or defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights. Even if we are successful in prosecuting or defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to our senior management and scientific personnel.. We currently have no issued patents. If we are unable to obtain and maintain effective patent rights for our product candidates or any future product candidates, we may not be able to prevent competitors from using technologies we consider important in our successful development and commercialization of our product candidates, resulting in loss of any potential competitive advantage our patents may have otherwise afforded us.. While our principal focus in matters relating to intellectual property is to avoid infringing the valid and enforceable rights of third parties, we also rely upon a combination of patents, trade secret protection and. 57. TABLE OF CONTENTS. confidentiality agreements to protect our own intellectual property related to our product candidates and development programs. Our ability to enjoy any competitive advantages afforded by our own intellectual property depends in large part on our ability to obtain and maintain patents and other intellectual property protection in the United States and in other countries with respect to various proprietary elements of our product candidates, such as, for example, our product formulations and processes for manufacturing our products and our ability to maintain and control the confidentiality of our trade secrets and confidential information critical to our business.. We have sought to protect our proprietary position by filing patent applications in the United States and abroad related to our products that are important to our business. This process is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to file and prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. It is also possible that we will fail to identify patentable aspects of our research and development output before it is too late to obtain patent protection. There is no guarantee that any patent application we file will result in an issued patent having claims that protect our products; and, as a result, we may not be able to effectively prevent others from commercializing competitive products. Additionally, while the basic requirements for patentability are similar across jurisdictions, each jurisdiction has its own specific requirements for patentability. We cannot guarantee that we will obtain identical or similar patent protection covering our products in all jurisdictions where we file patent applications.. The patent positions of biopharmaceutical companies generally are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which legal principles remain unresolved. As a result, the patent applications that we own or license may fail to result in issued patents with claims that cover our product candidates in the United States or in other foreign countries for many reasons. There is no assurance that all potentially relevant prior art relating to our patents and patent applications has been found, considered or cited during patent prosecution, which can be used to invalidate a patent or prevent a patent from issuing from a pending patent application. Even if patents do successfully issue, and even if such patents cover our product candidates, third parties may challenge their validity, enforceability or scope, which may result in such patent claims being narrowed, found unenforceable or invalidated. Furthermore, even if they are unchallenged, our patents and patent applications may not adequately protect our intellectual property, provide exclusivity for our product candidates or prevent others from designing around our claims. Any of these outcomes could impair our ability to prevent competitors from using the technologies claimed in any patents issued to us, which may have an adverse impact on our business.. Patents granted by the European Patent Office may be opposed by any person within nine months from the publication of their grant and, in addition, may be challenged before national courts at any time.. Furthermore, even if they are unchallenged, our patents and patent applications may not adequately protect our intellectual property or prevent others from designing around our claims. If the breadth or strength of protection provided by the patents and patent applications we hold, license or pursue with respect to our product candidates is threatened, it could threaten our ability to prevent third parties from using the same technologies that we use in our product candidates. In addition, recent changes to the patent laws of the United States provide additional procedures for third parties to challenge the validity of issued patents based on patent applications filed after March 15, 2013. If the breadth or strength of protection provided by the patents and patent applications we hold or pursue with respect to our current or future product candidates is challenged, then it could threaten our ability to prevent competitive products from using our proprietary technology. Further, because patent applications in the United States and most other countries are confidential for a period of time, typically for 18 months after filing, we cannot be certain that we were the first to either (i) file any patent application related to our product candidates or (ii) invent any of the inventions claimed in our patents or patent applications. Furthermore, for applications filed before March 16, 2013 or patents issuing from such applications, an interference proceeding can be provoked by a third party or instituted by the USPTO to determine who was the first to invent any of the subject matter covered by the patent claims of our applications and patents. If third parties have filed such applications after March 15, 2013, a derivation proceeding in the United States can be initiated by such third parties to determine whether our invention was derived from theirs.. We do not have any issued patents, but we have filed patent applications, which are currently pending, directed to various aspects of our product candidates. We cannot offer any assurances about which, if any,. 58. TABLE OF CONTENTS. patents will be issued, the breadth of any such patent or whether any issued patents will be found invalid and unenforceable or will be threatened or infringed by third parties. Any successful actions by third parties to challenge the validity or enforceability of any patents that may be issued to us could deprive us of the ability to prevent others from using the technologies claimed in such issued patents.. Further, if we encounter delays in regulatory approvals, the period of time during which we could market a product candidate under patent protection could be reduced.. While our business is based primarily on the timing of our biosimilar product launches to occur after the expiration of relevant patents, we have filed two patent applications directed to our own proprietary formulations and processes for our product candidates when we have believed securing such patents may afford a competitive advantage. For example, the companies that originated Humira and Avastin (AbbVie and Genentech, respectively) own patents directed to formulations for these products. Rather than wait for the expiration of these formulation patents, we have developed our own proprietary formulations for these products that we believe are not covered by valid claims of third party patents, including AbbVie or Genentech's formulation patents; and we have filed patent applications directed to our formulations. We cannot guarantee that our proprietary formulations will avoid infringement of third party patents. Moreover, because competitors may be able to develop their own proprietary product formulations, it is uncertain whether issuance of any of our pending patent applications directed to formulations of adalimumab (Humira) and bevacizumab (Avastin) would cover the formulations of any competitors. For example, we are aware that Sandoz is developing biosimilar versions of adalimumab (Humira) and has filed patent applications directed to formulations of adalimumab (Humira). We are also aware that Boehringer is developing a biosimilar version of adalimumab (Humira) and has filed a patent application directed to formulations of adalimumab (Humira). We have also filed patent applications, none of which have yet issued, directed to aspects of our downstream manufacturing processes for various biosimilars, including ONS-3010. In contrast to our patent applications directed to formulations of ONS-3010, the proprietary technologies embodied in our process-related patent filings, while directed to inventions we believe may provide us with competitive advantage, were not developed by us to avoid third-party patents. As in the case of our formulation patent filings, it is highly uncertain and we cannot predict whether our patent filings on process enhancements will afford us a competitive advantage against third parties.. Obtaining and maintaining our patent protection depends on compliance with various procedural requirements, document submissions, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies. Our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements.. The USPTO and various foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other provisions during the patent process. In many cases, an inadvertent lapse can be cured by payment of a late fee or by other means in accordance with the applicable rules. However, there are situations in which noncompliance can result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. In such an event, competitors might be able to enter the market earlier than would otherwise have been the case.. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights throughout the world.. Filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patents on product candidates in all countries throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive, and our intellectual property rights in some countries outside the United States can be less extensive than those in the United States. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as federal and state laws in the United States. Further, licensing partners may choose not to file patent applications in certain jurisdictions in which we may obtain commercial rights, thereby precluding the possibility of later obtaining patent protection in these countries. Consequently, we may not be able to prevent third parties from practicing our inventions in all countries outside the United States or importing products made using our inventions into the United States or other jurisdictions. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection to develop their own products and may also export infringing products to territories where we have patent protection, but the ability to enforce our patents is not as strong as that in the United States. These products may compete with our products and our patents or other intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent them from competing.. 59. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents, trade secrets and other intellectual property protection, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents or marketing of competing products in violation of our proprietary rights generally. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions, whether or not successful, could result in substantial costs and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business, could put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not being approved, and could provoke third parties to assert claims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially meaningful. Governments of some foreign countries may force us to license our patents to third parties on terms that are not commercially reasonable or acceptable to us. Accordingly, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights around the world may be inadequate to obtain a significant commercial advantage from the intellectual property that we develop or license.. Changes in U.S. patent law could diminish the value of patents in general, thereby impairing our ability to protect our product candidates.. As is the case with other biopharmaceutical companies, our success is heavily dependent on intellectual property, particularly patents. Obtaining and enforcing patents in the biopharmaceutical industry involves both technological and legal complexity. Therefore, obtaining and enforcing biopharmaceutical patents is costly, time-consuming and inherently uncertain. In addition, the United States has recently enacted and is currently implementing wide-ranging patent reform legislation, including the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the America Invents Act, signed into law on September 16, 2011.. As of March 16, 2013, the United States transitioned to a \"first-to-file\" system for deciding which party should be granted a patent when two or more patent applications claiming the same invention are filed by different parties. A third party that files a patent application in the USPTO before us could therefore be awarded a patent covering an invention of ours even if we had made the invention before it was made by the third party. The change to \"first-to-file\" from \"first-to-invent\" is one of the changes to the patent laws of the United States resulting from the America Invents Act. Among some of the other significant changes to the patent laws are changes that limit where a patentee may file a patent infringement suit and provide opportunities for third parties to challenge any issued patent in the USPTO via procedures including post-grant and inter partes review. These adversarial actions at the USPTO review patent claims without the presumption of validity afforded to U.S. patents in lawsuits in U.S. federal courts, and use a lower burden of proof than used in litigation in U.S. federal courts. Therefore, it is generally considered easier for a competitor or third party to have a patent invalidated in a Patent Office post-grant review or inter partes review proceeding than invalidated in a litigation in a U.S. federal court. If any of our patents are challenged by a third party in such a USPTO proceeding, there is no guarantee that we or our licensors or collaborators will be successful in defending the patent, which would result in a loss of the challenged patent right. It is not yet clear what, if any, impact the America Invents Act will have on the operation of our business. However, the America Invents Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of any issued patents, all of which could harm our business and financial condition.. Further, recent court rulings in cases such as Association for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad Genetics, Inc. (Myriad I); BRCA1- & BRCA2-Based Hereditary Cancer Test Patent Litig., (Myriad II); and Promega Corp. v. Life Technologies Corp. have narrowed the scope of patent protection available in certain circumstances and weakened the rights of patent owners in certain situations.. In addition to increasing uncertainty with regard to our ability to obtain patents in the future, this combination of events has created uncertainty with respect to the value of patents, once obtained. Depending on future actions by the United States Congress, the Federal Courts and the USPTO, the laws and regulations governing patents could change in unpredictable ways that would weaken our ability to obtain new patents or to enforce existing patents and patents that we might obtain in the future.. 60. TABLE OF CONTENTS. If we are unable to maintain effective proprietary rights for our product candidates or any future product candidates, we may not be able to compete effectively in our markets.. While we have filed patent applications to protect certain aspects of our own proprietary formulation and process developments, we also rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect proprietary scientific, business and technical information and know-how that is not or may not be patentable or that we elect not to patent. However, confidential information and trade secrets can be difficult to protect. Moreover, the information embodied in our trade secrets and confidential information may be independently and legitimately developed or discovered by third parties without any improper use of or reference to information or trade secrets. We seek to protect the scientific, technical and business information supporting our operations, as well as the confidential information relating specifically to our product candidates by entering into confidentiality agreements with parties to whom we need to disclose our confidential information, such as, our employees, consultants, board members, contractors, potential collaborators and financial investors. However we cannot be certain that such agreements have been entered into with all relevant parties. We also seek to preserve the integrity and confidentiality of our data and trade secrets by maintaining physical security of our premises and physical and electronic security of our information technology systems, but it is possible that these security measures could be breached. While we have confidence in these individuals, organizations and systems, agreements or security measures may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Our confidential information and trade secrets thus may become known by our competitors in ways we cannot prove or remedy.. Although we expect all of our employees and consultants to assign their inventions to us, and all of our employees, consultants, advisors and any third parties who have access to our proprietary know-how, information or technology to enter into confidentiality agreements, we cannot provide any assurances that all such agreements have been duly executed. We cannot guarantee that our trade secrets and other confidential proprietary information will not be disclosed or that competitors will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques. For example, any of these parties may breach the agreements and disclose our proprietary information, including our trade secrets, and we may not be able to obtain adequate remedies for such breaches.. Misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of our trade secrets could impair our competitive position and may harm our business. Additionally, if the steps taken to maintain our trade secrets are deemed inadequate, we may have insufficient recourse against third parties for misappropriating any trade secret. We cannot guarantee that our employees, former employees or consultants will not file patent applications claiming our inventions. Because of the \"first-to-file\" laws in the United States, such unauthorized patent application filings may defeat our attempts to obtain patents on our own inventions.. We may be subject to claims challenging the inventorship of our patent filings and other intellectual property.. We may in the future be subject to claims that former employees, collaborators or other third parties have an interest in our patent applications or patents we may be granted or other intellectual property as an inventor or co-inventor. For example, we may have inventorship or ownership disputes arise from conflicting obligations of consultants or others who are involved in developing our product candidates. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these and other claims challenging inventorship or ownership. If we fail in defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights, such as exclusive ownership of or right to use valuable intellectual property. Such an outcome could harm our business. Even if we are successful in defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management and other employees.. If we fail to comply with our obligations in the agreements under which we license intellectual property and other rights from third parties or otherwise experience disruptions to our business relationships with our licensors, we could lose license rights that are important to our business.. We are party to a non-exclusive intellectual property license agreement with Selexis SA, or Selexis, pertaining to cell line expression technology, that is important to our business, and we expect to enter into additional license agreements in the future. Our license agreement with Selexis imposes, and we expect that future license agreements will impose, various milestone payments, royalty payments and other obligations on us. If we fail to comply with our obligations under these agreements or if we are subject to a bankruptcy,. 61. TABLE OF CONTENTS. we may be required to make certain payments to the licensor of our license or the licensor may have the right to terminate the license, in which event we would not be able to develop or market products covered by the license. Additionally, the milestone and other payments associated with these licenses will make it less profitable for us to develop our product candidates.. In the event we breach any of our obligations under these agreements, we may incur significant liability to our licensing partners. Disputes may arise regarding intellectual property subject to a licensing agreement, including but not limited to:. •. the scope of rights granted under the license agreement and other interpretation-related issues;. •. the extent to which our technology and processes infringe on intellectual property of the licensor that is not subject to the licensing agreement;. •. the sublicensing of patents and other rights;. •. our diligence obligations under the license agreement and what activities satisfy those diligence obligations;. •. the ownership of inventions and know-how resulting from the joint creation or use of intellectual property by our licensors and us and our collaborators; and. •. the priority of invention of patented technology.. If disputes over intellectual property and other rights that we have licensed prevent or impair our ability to maintain our current licensing arrangements on acceptable terms, we may be unable to successfully develop and commercialize the affected product candidates and that could harm our business.. We may not be successful in obtaining or maintaining necessary rights to our product candidates through acquisitions and in-licenses.. We currently have rights to certain intellectual property through licenses from third parties, including Selexis, to develop ONS-3010 and ONS-1045. Because we may find that our programs require the use of proprietary rights held by third parties, the growth of our business may depend in part on our ability to acquire, in-license or use these proprietary rights. We may be unable to acquire or in-license compositions, methods of use, processes or other third party intellectual property rights from third parties that we identify as necessary for our product candidates. The licensing and acquisition of third-party intellectual property rights is a competitive area, and a number of more established companies are also pursuing strategies to license or acquire third-party intellectual property rights that we may consider attractive. These established companies may have a competitive advantage over us due to their size, financial resources and greater clinical development and commercialization capabilities. In addition, companies that perceive us to be a competitor may be unwilling to assign or license rights to us. We also may be unable to license or acquire third-party intellectual property rights on terms that would allow us to make an appropriate return on our investment.. If we are unable to successfully obtain rights to required third party intellectual property rights or maintain the existing intellectual property rights we have, we may have to abandon development of that program and our business and financial condition could suffer.. Our ability to market our products in the United States may be significantly delayed or prevented by the BPCIA patent dispute resolution mechanism.. The BPCIA created a new, elaborate and complex patent dispute resolution mechanism for biosimilars that could prevent us from launching our product candidates in the United States or could substantially delay such launches. This mechanism has been referred to as the \"patent dance.\" Uncertainty over how courts will construe the patent dance, for example whether it is the exclusive pathway for litigation involving 351(k) biosimilar applications, may cause our assumptions regarding the scope, timing and expense of patent litigation to be incorrect, and may cause delays in the launch of products subject to such litigation.. 62. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Currently, the patent dance is not mandatory, although this may change in the future. The patent dance mandates patent disclosure and briefing requirements that are demanding and time-sensitive. The following is an overview of the patent exchange and patent briefing procedures:. •. Disclosure of the Biosimilar Application. Within 20 days after receiving a notice from the FDA that its application has been accepted for review, a 351(k) biosimilar applicant provides a copy of its application information to the RPS. Providing of this information begins the patent dance. If the 351(k) biosimilar applicant chooses not to disclose such information, or opts out of later steps of the patent dance, the RPS may bring an immediate suit for patent infringement that will proceed under the conventional procedural rules for patent infringement actions.. •. Identification of Pertinent Patents. Within 60 days of the date of receipt of the application, the RPS must identify the patents owned or controlled by it that it reasonably believes could be asserted against the biosimilar applicant.. •. Statement by the Biosimilar Applicant. Following the receipt of the RPS's patent list, the biosimilar applicant must state either that it will not market its product until the relevant patents have expired or alternatively provide its arguments of stating why the patents are invalid, unenforceable or would not be infringed by the proposed biosimilar product candidate. The biosimilar applicant may also provide the RPS with a list of patents it reasonably believes the RPS could assert against the biosimilar product.. •. Statement by the RPS. In the event the biosimilar applicant has asserted that the patents are invalid, unenforceable or would not be infringed by the proposed follow-on product, the RPS must provide the biosimilar applicant with a response within 60 days. The response must provide the legal and factual basis of the opinion that such patent will be infringed by the commercial marketing of the proposed biosimilar.. •. Patent Resolution Negotiations. If the RPS provides its detailed views that the proposed biosimilar would infringe valid and enforceable patents, then the parties are required to engage in good faith negotiations to identify which of the identified patents will be the subject of a patent infringement action. If the parties agree on the patents to be litigated, the RPS must bring an action for patent infringement within 30 days.. •. Simultaneous Exchange of Patents. If those negotiations do not result in an agreement within 15 days, then the biosimilar applicant must notify the RPS of how many patents (but not the identity of those patents) that it wishes to litigate. Within five days, the parties are then required to exchange lists identifying the patents to be litigated. The number of patents identified by the RPS may not exceed the number provided by the biosimilar applicant. However, if the biosimilar applicant previously indicated that no patents should be litigated, then the RPS may identify one patent.. •. Commencement of Patent Litigation. The RPS must then commence patent infringement litigation within 30 days. That litigation will involve all of the patents on the RPS's list and all of the patents on the biosimilar applicant's list. The biosimilar applicant must then notify the FDA of the litigation. The FDA must then publish a notice of the litigation in the Federal Register.. •. Notice of Commercial Marketing. If the biosimilar applicant opts out of the patent dance, the BPCIA requires the biosimilar applicant to provide notice to the RPS after FDA licensure, and at least 180 days in advance of its first commercial marketing of its proposed follow-on biologic. It is not clear whether the biosimilar applicant must give notice if it complies with the patent dance, but courts may interpret the BPCIA to require such notice. If notice is not given, the RPS may immediately commence a patent infringement action on any patent that was listed (or listable) by the RPS during the dance, but not part of the first wave of patents being litigated. The RPS is allowed to seek a preliminary injunction blocking such marketing based upon any such patents. The litigants are required to \"reasonably cooperate to expedite such further discovery as is needed\" with respect to the preliminary injunction motion.. 63. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Biosimilar companies such as ours have the option of applying for U.S. regulatory approval for our products under either a traditional 351(a) BLA approval route, or under the recently enacted streamlined 351(k) approval route established by the BPCIA. The factors underpinning such a decision are extremely complex and involve, among other things, balancing legal risk (in terms of, e.g., the degree and timing of exposure to potential patent litigation by the RPS) against regulatory risks (in terms of, e.g., the development costs and the differing scope of regulatory approval that may be afforded under 351(a) rather than 351(k)).. A significant legal risk in pursuing regulatory approval under the 351(k) regulatory approval route is that the above-summarized patent exchange process established by the BPCIA could result in the initiation of patent infringement litigation prior to FDA approval of a 351(k) application, and such litigation could result in blocking the market entry of our products. In particular, while the 351(k) route is more attractive to us (rather than 351(a)) for reasons related to development time and costs and the potential broader scope of eventual regulatory approval for our biosimilar product candidates, the countervailing risk in such a regulatory choice is that the complex patent exchange process mandated by the BPCIA could ultimately prevent or substantially delay us from launching our products in the United States.. Preparing for and conducting the patent exchange, briefing and negotiation process outlined above will require extraordinarily sophisticated legal counseling and extensive planning, all under extremely tight deadlines. Moreover, it may be difficult for us to secure such legal support if large, well-funded RPSs have already entered into engagements with highly qualified law firms or if the most highly qualified law firms choose not to represent biosimilar applicants due to their long standing relationships with RPSs.. Furthermore, we could be at a serious disadvantage in this process as an RPS, such as AbbVie (in the case of ONS-3010) or Genentech (in the case of ONS-1045 or ONS-1050), may be able to apply substantially greater legal and financial resources to this process than we could.. Whether courts will view the BPCIA process as the sole avenue for a biosimilar entity and the RPS to identify and potentially litigate such patents remains uncertain, although a Federal Circuit panel has recently held that a biosimilar applicant may opt out of the patent dance. A binding and non-reviewable judicial determination to that effect could increase patent infringement risks for companies, including ours, seeking to introduce biosimilar versions of reference products.. If we file a 351(k) regulatory approval application for one or more of our products, we may consider it necessary or advisable to adopt the strategy of selecting one or more patents of the RPS to litigate in the above described BPCIA process (for example in the third and seventh steps of the process, as outlined above), either to assert our non-infringement of such patents or to challenge their validity; but we may ultimately not be successful in that strategy and could be prevented from marketing the product in the United States.. The complex, untested and uncertain rules of the BPCIA patent provisions, coupled with the inherent uncertainty surrounding the legal interpretation of any RPS patents that might be asserted against us in this new process, may significantly delay or defeat our ability to market our products in the United States.. Risks Related to Our Business Operations. We may not be successful in our efforts to begin selling contract development and manufacturing services.. The success of our business depends upon our ability to identify, develop and commercialize contract development and manufacturing customers. Selling our services to these customers will require significant efforts to identify customers with development stage products that would benefit from our capabilities. Our efforts may fail to generate revenues for a number of reasons, including but not limited to the following:. •. we may not be successful in identifying potential customers;. •. we may not be able to provide services at an acceptable cost, or at all; and. •. we may not generate enough revenue to cover our operating costs.. If any of these events occur, we may be forced to abandon our contract development and manufacturing efforts, which would harm our business and could potentially cause us to cease operations.. 64. TABLE OF CONTENTS. We may not be successful in our efforts to identify, develop or commercialize additional product candidates.. Although a substantial amount of our effort will focus on the continued clinical testing, potential approval and commercialization of our existing product candidates, the success of our business also depends upon our ability to identify, develop and commercialize additional product candidates. Research programs to identify new product candidates require substantial technical, financial and human resources. We may focus our efforts and resources on potential programs or product candidates that ultimately prove to be unsuccessful. Our development efforts may fail to yield additional product candidates suitable for clinical development and commercialization for a number of reasons, including but not limited to the following:. •. we may not be successful in identifying potential product candidates that pass our strict screening criteria;. •. we may not be able to overcome technological hurdles to development or a product candidate may not be capable of producing commercial quantities at an acceptable cost, or at all;. •. we may not be successful in identifying a reference product as to which we can determine how to create a biosimilar;. •. we may not be able to assemble sufficient resources to acquire or discover additional product candidates;. •. our product candidates may not succeed in preclinical or clinical testing;. •. our potential product candidates may fail to show sufficient biosimilarity to reference molecules; and. •. competitors may develop alternatives that render our product candidates obsolete or less attractive or the market for a product candidate may change such that a product candidate may not justify further development.. If any of these events occur, we may be forced to abandon our development efforts for a program or programs or we may not be able to identify, develop or commercialize additional product candidates, which would harm our business and could potentially cause us to cease operations.. We expect to incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives.. As a newly public company, we expect to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and the NASDAQ Global Market, or NASDAQ, have imposed various requirements on public companies. In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, was enacted. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that require the SEC to adopt additional rules and regulations in these areas such as \"say on pay\" and pay parity. Recent legislation permits smaller \"emerging growth companies\" such as our company to implement many of these requirements over a longer period and up to five years from the date of pricing of our May 2016 initial public offering. We intend to take advantage of this new legislation but cannot guarantee that we will not be required to implement these requirements sooner than budgeted or planned and thereby incur unexpected expenses. Stockholder activism, the current political environment and the current high level of government intervention and regulatory reform may lead to substantial new regulations and disclosure obligations, which may lead to additional compliance costs and impact the manner in which we operate our business in ways we cannot currently anticipate. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, we expect these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to incur substantial costs to maintain our current levels of such coverage.. 65. TABLE OF CONTENTS. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, beginning with this form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2017 we were required to perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to report, on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404. Our testing may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. We currently do not have an internal audit group and rely on independent contractors for control monitoring and for the preparation and review of our consolidated financial statements. We are actively seeking additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge to augment our current staff. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or if we identify or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by NASDAQ, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources.. New laws and regulations as well as changes to existing laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and rules adopted by the SEC and by NASDAQ, would likely result in increased costs to us as we respond to their requirements.. We are highly dependent on the services of our key executives and personnel, including our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Pankaj Mohan, Ph.D., and if we are not able to retain these members of our management or recruit additional management, clinical and scientific personnel, our business will suffer.. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific and technical staff, particularly, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Mohan. The loss of service of any of our management or key scientific and technical staff could harm our business. In addition, we are dependent on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified additional management, clinical and scientific personnel. If we are not able to retain our management and to attract, on acceptable terms, additional qualified personnel necessary for the continued development of our business, we may not be able to sustain our operations or grow.. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified personnel in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and other businesses. Our industry has experienced a high rate of turnover of management personnel in recent years. If we are not able to attract, retain and motivate necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will significantly impede the achievement of our development objectives, our ability to raise additional capital and our ability to implement our business strategy.. Our future performance will also depend, in part, on our ability to successfully integrate newly hired executive officers into our management team and our ability to develop an effective working relationship among senior management. Our failure to integrate these individuals and create effective working relationships among them and other members of management could result in inefficiencies in the development and commercialization of our product candidates, harming future regulatory approvals, sales of our product candidates and our results of operations. Additionally, we do not currently maintain \"key person\" life insurance on the lives of our executives or any of our employees.. We will need to expand our organization and we may experience difficulties in managing this growth, which could disrupt our operations.. As of September 30, 2017, we had 48 full-time employees. As our development and commercialization plans and strategies develop, we expect to need additional managerial, operational, sales, marketing, financial, legal and other resources. Our management may need to divert a disproportionate amount of its attention away from our day-to-day operations and devote a substantial amount of time to managing these growth activities. We may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations, which may result in weaknesses in our infrastructure, operational inefficiencies, loss of business opportunities, loss of employees and reduced productivity among remaining employees. Our expected growth could require significant. 66. TABLE OF CONTENTS. capital expenditures and may divert financial resources from other projects, such as the development of our current and potential future product candidates. If our management is unable to effectively manage our growth, our expenses may increase more than expected, our ability to generate and grow revenue could be reduced and we may not be able to implement our business strategy. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize product candidates and compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage any future growth.. Our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman and a former member of our board of directors, are directors of Sonnet Biotherapeutics, Inc. In addition, there is significant overlap between our current common stockholders and the shareholders of Sonnet. Their interests may conflict with those of our other stockholders.. On April 6, 2015, pursuant to a contribution agreement, we contributed certain of our assets, unrelated to our biosimilar business, to Sonnet Biotherapeutics, Inc., or Sonnet, a company focused on the development of bi- or tri-specific antibody fragments that have potential utility in oncology, in exchange for all of Sonnet's outstanding equity interests. We then distributed the equity interests to our stockholders on a pro rata basis. Pankaj Mohan, Ph.D., who is our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Donald J. Griffith, our former Chief Financial Officer and a former member of our board of directors, currently serve as members of the board of directors of Sonnet. In addition, Mr. Griffith serves as the President, Chief Executive Officer and Treasurer of Sonnet. Dr. Mohan does not intend to resign from his respective positions in Sonnet. In addition, Dr. Mohan currently holds greater than 50% of the outstanding capital stock of Sonnet. These relationships could result in conflicts of interest between their obligations to our company and Sonnet. In addition, there is significant overlap between our current stockholders and the shareholders of Sonnet. Sonnet's interests and the interests of its shareholders may be different from ours or those of our other stockholders and this could result in conflicts. The resolution of any of these conflicts may not always be in our or your best interest.. Healthcare legislative reform measures may harm our business and results of operations.. In the United States, there have been and continue to be a number of legislative initiatives to improve the access to and quality of healthcare, and to contain healthcare costs. For example, in March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, or together, the Affordable Care Act, was passed, which substantially changes the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers and significantly impacts the U.S.pharmaceutical industry. The Affordable Care Act, among other things, imposes a new methodology by which rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program are calculated for drugs that are inhaled, infused, instilled, implanted or injected, increases the minimum Medicaid rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, extends the rebate program to individuals enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations, adds a provision to increase the Medicaid rebate for line extensions or reformulated drugs, establishes annual fees and taxes on manufacturers and importers of certain branded prescription drugs and biologic agents, and promotes a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program. The Affordable Care Act also expands eligibility for Medicaid programs and introduced a new Patient Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research. There have been judicial and congressional challenges to certain aspects of the Affordable Care Act, and we expect there will be additional challenges and amendments to the Affordable Care Act in the future particularly in the light of the pending change in administrations following the 2016 U.S. presidential election.. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted in the United States since the Affordable Care Act was enacted. For example, on August 2, 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011, among other things, created measures for spending reductions by Congress. A Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, tasked with recommending a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2012 through 2021, was unable to reach required goals, thereby triggering the legislation's automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes aggregate reductions of Medicare payments to providers up to 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect on April 1, 2013 and will stay in effect through 2025 unless additional Congressional action is taken. Additionally, on January 2, 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to certain providers, including physicians, hospitals and cancer treatment centers. In addition, there has. 67. TABLE OF CONTENTS. been heightened governmental scrutiny recently over the manner in which drug manufacturers set prices for their marketed products, which have resulted in several Congressional inquiries and proposed bills designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to product pricing, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, and reform government program reimbursement methodologies for drug products.. We expect that the Affordable Care Act, as well as other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, may result in more rigorous coverage criteria and lower reimbursement, and additional downward pressure on the price that we receive for any approved product. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare or other government-funded programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. The implementation of cost containment measures or other healthcare reforms could result in reduced demand for our product candidates or additional pricing pressures, and may prevent us from being able to generate revenue, attain profitability or commercialize our drugs.. We may be subject, directly or indirectly, to federal and state healthcare laws and regulations, including fraud and abuse, false claims, physician payment transparency and health information privacy and security laws. If we are unable to comply or have not fully complied with such laws, we could face substantial penalties.. Our operations may be directly or indirectly through our customers subject to various federal and state fraud and abuse laws, including without limitation, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the federal False Claims Act and physician sunshine laws and regulations. These laws may impact, among other things, our clinical research, proposed sales, marketing and education programs. In addition, we may be subject to patient data privacy and security regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. The healthcare laws that may affect our ability to operate include but are not limited to:. •. the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons and entities from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce, reward, or in return for either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, recommendation, order or furnishing of an item or service reimbursable, in whole or in part, under a federal healthcare program, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs;. •. federal civil and criminal false claims laws and civil monetary penalty laws, including the civil False Claims Act, which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting or causing to be presented claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid or other government health programs that are false or fraudulent and which may apply to entities that provide coding and billing advice to customers;. •. the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which created additional federal criminal statutes that prohibit, among other things, executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program and making false statements relating to healthcare matters;. •. HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, and its implementing regulations, which imposes certain requirements, including mandatory contractual terms, relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information on health plans, certain healthcare providers, and healthcare clearinghouses, and their business associates;. •. the federal legislation commonly referred to as the Physician Payments Sunshine Act under the Affordable Care Act, which requires certain manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid, or the Children's Health Insurance Program, with specific exceptions, to report annually to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services information related to payments and other transfers of value made by such manufacturers to physicians and teaching hospitals and ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members and applicable group purchasing organizations; and. 68. TABLE OF CONTENTS. •. analogous state and foreign laws and regulations, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws that may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers; state laws that require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government or otherwise restrict payments that may be made to healthcare providers and other potential referral sources; state laws that require drug manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures; and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts.. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the statutory exceptions and safe harbors available, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. In addition, recent healthcare reform legislation has strengthened these laws. For example, the Affordable Care Act, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal healthcare fraud statutes. A person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of these statutes or specific intent to violate them in order to commit a violation. Moreover, the Affordable Care Act provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the civil False Claims Act.. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, imprisonment, disgorgement, contractual damages, reputational harm, diminished profits and future earnings, additional reporting requirements and oversight if we become subject to a corporate integrity agreement or similar agreement to resolve allegations of non-compliance with these laws, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our results of operations. Defending against any such actions can be costly, time-consuming and may require significant financial and personnel resources.. Therefore, even if we are successful in defending against any such actions that may be brought against us, our business may be impaired.. The international aspects of our business expose us to business, regulatory, political, operational, financial and economic risks associated with doing business outside of the United States.. We currently have limited international operations of our own and have a number of international collaborations. Doing business internationally involves a number of risks, including but not limited to:. •. multiple, conflicting and changing laws and regulations such as privacy regulations, tax laws, export and import restrictions, employment laws, regulatory requirements and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses;. •. failure by us or our collaboration partners to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals for the use of our products in various countries;. •. additional potentially relevant third-party patent rights;. •. complexities and difficulties in obtaining protection and enforcing our intellectual property;. •. difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations by us or our collaboration partners;. •. complexities associated with managing multiple payor reimbursement regimes, government payors or patient self-pay systems by our collaboration partners;. •. limits in our or our collaboration partners' ability to penetrate international markets;. •. financial risks, such as longer payment cycles, difficulty collecting accounts receivable, the impact of local and regional financial crises on demand and payment for our products and exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations;. 69. TABLE OF CONTENTS. •. natural disasters, political and economic instability, including wars, terrorism and political unrest, outbreak of disease, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions;. •. certain expenses including, among others, expenses for travel, translation and insurance; and. •. regulatory and compliance risks that relate to maintaining accurate information and control over sales and activities that may fall within the purview of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, its books and records provisions or its anti-bribery provisions.. If we fail to comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, we could become subject to fines or penalties or incur costs that could harm our business.. Our research, development and manufacturing activities and our third-party suppliers' activities involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials, including the components of our product candidates and other hazardous compounds. We and our suppliers are subject to laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials. In some cases, these hazardous materials and various wastes resulting from their use are stored at our facilities pending their use and disposal. We cannot eliminate the risk of contamination, which could cause an interruption of our commercialization efforts, research, development and manufacturing efforts and business operations, and environmental damage resulting in costly clean-up and liabilities under applicable laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specified waste products. Although we believe that the safety procedures utilized by us for handling and disposing of these materials generally comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, we cannot guarantee that this is the case or eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In such an event, we may be held liable for any resulting damages and such liability could exceed our resources and state or federal or other applicable authorities may curtail our use of certain materials and/or interrupt our business operations. Furthermore, environmental laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent. We cannot predict the impact of such changes and cannot be certain of our future compliance. We do not currently carry biological or hazardous waste insurance coverage.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Securities. Our common stock may be delisted from the Nasdaq and begin trading in the over-the-counter markets if we are not successful in regaining compliance with the Nasdaq's continued listing standards, which may negatively impact the price of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets.. On June 28, 2017, we received written notification from the Nasdaq Stock Market, or Nasdaq, indicating that as of June 28, 2017, we did not meet the $50.0 million minimum market value of listed securities required to maintain continued listing under its rules, and that as of June 28, 2017, we did not meet the alternative requirements of minimum stockholders' equity or total assets/total revenue. Under Nasdaq Rules, we had 180 calendar days from the date of the notification to regain compliance by meeting the continued listing requirement, namely the market value of listed securities closes at $50,000,000 or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days. Because we were unable to regain compliance during the 180-day period, we anticipate that we will receive a delisting determination from Nasdaq, following which we anticipate requesting a hearing to remain on the Nasdaq Global Market. If granted, such request will ordinarily suspend such delisting determination until a decision by Nasdaq subsequent to the hearing.. Although we intend to request a hearing, which stays the delisting, we cannot be certain of any outcome or if we will be given additional time to regain compliance. If we are not successful, we anticipate that our common stock would begin trading on the over-the-counter market. Delisting from Nasdaq and trading on the over-the-counter market could adversely affect the liquidity of our common stock and result in a deemed liquidation event under the terms of our recently issued Series A Convertible. Stocks traded on the over-the-counter market generally have limited trading volume and exhibit a wider spread between the bid/ ask quotation, as compared to securities listed on a national securities exchange. Consequently, you may not be able to liquidate your investment in the event of an emergency or for any other reason.. 70. TABLE OF CONTENTS. If our common stock is delisted from the Nasdaq, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including:. •. The requirement to redeem the Series A Convertible at (x) 120% of the stated value plus (y) 120% of any unpaid but accrued preferred dividends plus (z) any unpaid participating dividends;. •. A limited availability of market quotations for our common stock;. •. A reduced amount of news and analyst coverage for us;. •. A decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future;. •. Reduced liquidity for our stockholders;. •. Potential loss of confidence by partners and employees; and. •. Loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities.. The trading price of our securities is likely to be volatile, and purchasers of our securities could incur substantial losses.. The market price of our securities is likely to be volatile. The stock market in general and the market in which we operate have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. As a result of this volatility, investors may not be able to sell their securities at a profit. The market price of our securities could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including but not limited to:. •. the success of competitive services, products or technologies;. •. adverse results or delays in preclinical or clinical trials;. •. any inability to obtain additional funding;. •. any delay in filing an IND, BLA or other regulatory submission for any of our product candidates and any adverse development or perceived adverse development with respect to the applicable regulatory agency's review of that IND, BLA or other regulatory submission;. •. the perception of limited market sizes or pricing for our product candidates;. •. failure to successfully develop and commercialize our product candidates;. •. post-marketing safety issues relating to our product candidates or biosimilars generally;. •. failure to maintain our existing strategic collaborations or enter into new collaborations;. •. failure by us or our licensors and strategic collaboration partners to prosecute, maintain or enforce our intellectual property rights;. •. changes in laws or regulations applicable to our products;. •. any inability to obtain adequate product supply for our product candidates or the inability to do so at acceptable prices;. •. adverse regulatory decisions;. •. introduction of new products, services or technologies by our competitors, including biosimilars, interchangeable biosimilars, and biobetter versions of the same molecules we are targeting;. •. failure to meet or exceed financial projections we may provide to the public;. •. failure to meet or exceed the financial projections of the investment community;. •. the perception of the pharmaceutical industry by the public, legislatures, regulators and the investment community;. •. announcements of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by us, our strategic collaboration partners or our competitors;. 71. TABLE OF CONTENTS. •. disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies;. •. additions or departures of key scientific or management personnel;. •. significant lawsuits, including stockholder litigation and litigation filed by us or filed against us pertaining to patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights;. •. the outcomes of any citizens petitions filed by parties seeking to restrict or limit the approval of biosimilar products;. •. if securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding our stock;. •. changes in the market valuations of similar companies;. •. general economic, industry or market conditions;. •. sales of our securities by us or our stockholders in the future;. •. trading volume of our securities;. •. issuance of patents to third parties that could prevent our ability to commercialize our product candidates;. •. reductions in the prices of reference products that could reduce the overall market opportunity for our product candidates intended as biosimilars to such reference products;. •. the loss of one or more employees constituting our leadership team;. •. changes in biosimilar regulatory requirements that could make it more difficult for us to develop our product candidates; and. •. the other factors described in this \"Risk Factors\" section.. In addition, biopharmaceutical companies in particular have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our securities, regardless of our actual operating performance.. GMS Tenshi has beneficial ownership of a significant percentage of our common stock, has the right to designate a majority of our board of directors, and is able to exert significant control over matters subject to stockholder approval, preventing new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions.. On October 31, 2017, we closed the sale of the remaining shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, or Series A Convertible, for an aggregate 250,000 shares of Series A Convertible (which are currently convertible into 37,795,948 shares of our common stock) and warrants to acquire 16,750,000 shares of our common stock being issued to GMS Tenshi. GMS Tenshi currently beneficially owns approximately 68.6 % of our common stock, and controls 60.2 % of our outstanding voting power. Under the investor rights agreement with GMS Tenshi, GMS Tenshi also currently has the power to designate a majority of our board of directors, and four of our seven board members were designated by GMS Tenshi. GMS Tenshi's interests may not coincide with the interests of other securityholders GMS Tenshi has the ability to influence our company through both its ownership position and control of our board of directors, which may prevent or discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or offers for our capital stock that you may believe are in your best interest as one of our securityholders.. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly or may fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, each of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate or decline.. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly, which makes it difficult for us to predict our future operating results. These fluctuations may occur due to a variety of factors, many of which are out of our control and may be difficult to predict, including but not limited to:. •. our ability to successfully initiate and provide contract development and manufacturing services;. 72. TABLE OF CONTENTS. •. our ability to successfully develop, market and sell ONS-3010, ONS-1045, ONS-1050 and our other product candidates;. •. the cost of clinical development for ONS-3010, ONS-1045 and ONS-1050;. •. the success of competitive products or technologies;. •. results of clinical trials of our product candidates or those of our competitors;. •. developments or disputes concerning patent applications, issued patents or other proprietary rights;. •. the recruitment or departure of key personnel;. •. the level of expenses related to any of our product candidates or clinical development programs;. •. the results of our efforts to discover, develop, manufacture, acquire or in-license additional product candidates;. •. actual or anticipated changes in estimates as to financial results, development timelines or recommendations by securities analysts;. •. variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us;. •. market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors;. •. general economic, industry and market conditions; and. •. the other factors described in this \"Risk Factors\" section.. If our quarterly operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the market price of our securities could decline substantially. Furthermore, any quarterly fluctuations in our operating results may, in turn, cause the price of our securities to fluctuate substantially. We believe that quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research, or publish unfavorable research, about our business, the market price of our securities and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our securities will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business, our market and our competitors. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our securities or change their opinion of our securities, the market price of our securities would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause the market price of our securities or trading volume to decline.. We are an \"emerging growth company\" and, due to the reduced reporting requirements applicable to emerging growth companies, certain investors may find investing in our securities less attractive.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act. For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in this prospectus and our periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We could be an emerging growth company for up to five years, although circumstances could cause us to lose that status earlier, including if the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of March 31 (the end of our second fiscal quarter) of any fiscal year before that time or if we have total annual gross revenue of<U+2009> $1.07 billion or more during any fiscal year before that time, in which cases we would no longer be an emerging growth company as of the following September 30 (the last day of our fiscal year) or, if we issue more than $1.0 billion in. 73. TABLE OF CONTENTS. non-convertible debt during any three-year period before that time, we would cease to be an emerging growth company immediately. We cannot predict if investors will find our securities less attractive because we may rely on this exemption. If some investors find our securities less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our securities and the market price of our securities may be more volatile.. We have and will continue to incur significant costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies in the United States, which may harm our operating results.. As a public company listed in the United States, we have and will continue to incur significant additional legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including regulations implemented by the SEC and NASDAQ, may increase legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management's time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If, notwithstanding our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards, we fail to comply, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us, and our business may be harmed.. Further, failure to comply with these laws, regulations and standards might also make it more difficult for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we might be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, on committees of our board of directors or as members of senior management.. Due to the speculative nature of warrants, there is no guarantee that it will ever be profitable for holders of the Series A warrants and Series B warrants to exercise such warrants.. The Series A warrants and Series B warrants represent the right to acquire shares of our common stock at a fixed price for a limited period of time. If not exercised prior to their expiration dates, such warrants expire and have no further value. In the event the price of a share of our common stock price does not exceed the exercise price of the warrants, such warrants may not have any value. Moreover, the market value of the warrants is uncertain and there can be no assurance that the market value of the warrants will equal or exceed their initial public offering price. There can be no assurance that the market price of our common stock will ever equal or exceed the exercise price of the warrants, and, consequently, whether it will ever be profitable for holders of the Series A warrants and Series B warrants to exercise such warrants.. Future sales and issuances of our common stock or rights to purchase securities, including pursuant to our equity incentive plans, exercise of warrants or conversion of outstanding convertible preferred securities, could result in additional dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders and could cause the market price of our securities to fall.. We will need additional capital in the future to continue our planned operations. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution. We may sell common stock, convertible securities or other equity securities in one or more transactions at prices and in a manner we determine from time to time. If we sell common stock, convertible securities or other equity securities in more than one transaction, investors may be materially diluted by subsequent sales. These sales may also result in material dilution to our existing stockholders, and new investors could gain rights superior to our existing stockholders.. Pursuant to the 2015 Equity Incentive Plan, or the 2015 Plan, our management is authorized to grant stock options and other equity-based awards to our employees, directors and consultants. Under the 2015 Plan, the number of shares of our common stock reserved for issuance as of September 30, 2017 was 1,214,309 shares. The number of shares available for future grant under the 2015 Plan will be increased by (i) the number of shares pursuant to outstanding awards under the 2015 Plan that are forfeited or lapse. 74. TABLE OF CONTENTS. unexercised and which following the effective date are not issued under the 2015 Plan and (ii) an annual increase on January 1 beginning in 2017 and ending in 2025, equal to 3% of the shares of stock outstanding as of December 31st of the immediately preceding year, or such smaller number of shares as determined by our board of directors. Pursuant to the 2016 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, or the ESPP, which became effective upon the execution of the underwriting agreement related to our initial public offering, upon implementation of an offering under the ESPP, eligible employees will be able to acquire shares of our common stock at a discount to the prevailing market price, and an aggregate of 289,855 shares were available for issuance under the ESPP as of September 30, 2017. The number of shares available for issuance under the ESPP will automatically increase on the first day of each fiscal year beginning in 2016 and ending in 2025, equal to the lesser of<U+2009> (i) 1% of the shares of common stock outstanding on December 31st of the immediately preceding calendar year, (ii) 510,145 shares of common stock, subject to adjustments as provided in the ESPP or (iii) such smaller number of shares as determined by our board of directors. If our board of directors does not elect to reduce the annual increases in the number of shares available for future grant under the 2015 Plan or the ESPP, our stockholders may experience additional dilution, which could cause the market price of our securities to fall.. We also currently have issued and outstanding a number of warrants to purchase shares of our common stock, as well as shares of our convertible preferred stock, the exercise or conversion of which could result in the issuance of a number of shares of our common stock. For example, the 250,000 shares of our Series A Convertible are currently convertible into an aggregate 37,795,948 shares of our common stock, which is more than the current number of shares of common stock that are issued and outstanding.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited.. We have incurred substantial losses during our history and do not expect to become profitable in the near future, and we may never achieve profitability. To the extent that we continue to generate taxable losses, unused losses will carry forward to offset future taxable income, if any, until such unused losses expire. Under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change,\" generally defined as a greater than 50 percentage point change (by value) in its equity ownership by certain stockholders over a three-year period, the corporation's ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs, and other pre-change tax attributes (such as research tax credits) to offset its post-change income or taxes may be limited. We may have experienced ownership changes in the past and may experience ownership changes in the future as a result of subsequent shifts in our stock ownership (some of which shifts are outside our control). As a result, if we earn net taxable income, our ability to use our pre-change NOLs to offset such taxable income will be subject to limitations. Similar provisions of state tax law may also apply to limit our use of accumulated state tax attributes. In addition, at the state level, there may be periods during which the use of NOLs is suspended or otherwise limited, which could accelerate or permanently increase state taxes owed. As a result, even if we attain profitability, we may be unable to use a material portion of our NOLs and other tax attributes, which could adversely affect our future cash flows.. We do not intend to pay dividends on our capital stock, and as such any returns will be limited to the value of our securities.. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Any return to securityholders will therefore be limited to the appreciation of their securities. In addition, our senior secured notes issued December 2016 through May 2017 restrict our ability to pay dividends, and the terms of our Series A Convertible may also act to limit our ability to pay dividends as we may not declare or pay any dividends on our common stock unless we also concurrently declare and set aside for payment or distribution, as applicable, participating dividends for our Series A Convertible.. 75. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us or increase the cost of acquiring us, even if doing so would benefit our securityholders or remove our current management.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws, as amended and Delaware law contain provisions that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us or changes in our management. Our charter documents also contain other provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect, such as:. •. establishing a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board of directors are elected at one time;. •. permitting the board of directors to establish the number of directors and fill any vacancies and newly created directorships;. •. providing that directors may only be removed for cause;. •. prohibiting cumulative voting for directors;. •. requiring super-majority voting to amend some provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws;. •. authorizing the issuance of<U+2009> \"blank check\" preferred stock that our board of directors could use to implement a stockholder rights plan;. •. eliminating the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; and. •. prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders.. These provisions, alone or together, could delay, deter or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management.. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which limits the ability of stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock to merge or combine with us.. Any provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws, as amended or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our securityholders to receive a premium for their securities and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our securities.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws, as amended, provide that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws, as amended, provide that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; any action asserting a breach of fiduciary duty; any action asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our amended and restated bylaws, as amended; or any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. The choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and other employees. If a court were to find the choice of forum provision contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or in our amended and restated bylaws, as amended, to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could harm our business and financial condition.. 76. TABLE OF CONTENTS"
