[1] "ITEM 1A.     RISK FACTORS.. You should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as other information contained in this report, including the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto and \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\"  The occurrence of any of the events discussed below could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.. 25. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS. We have a history of operating losses and may not become profitable in the near future.. We are not profitable and have incurred losses since our inception.  We may not generate substantial revenue from the sale of proprietary pharmaceutical products or certain of our diagnostic products for some time and we have generated only limited revenue from our pharmaceutical operations in the United States, Chile, Mexico, Israel, Spain, and Ireland, and from sale of the 4Kscore test.  We may not successfully leverage the national marketing, sales and distribution resources of BioReference to enhance sales of, and reimbursement for, our 4Kscore test and our other diagnostic products under development, which would adversely impact our ability to generate substantial revenue from the sale of these products for some time.  Rayaldee is our only pharmaceutical product that has been approved for marketing, other than those products sold by our Chilean, Mexican, Israeli, Spanish, and Irish subsidiaries.  We continue to incur substantial research and development and general and administrative expenses related to our operations and, to date, we have devoted most of our financial resources to research and development, including our pre-clinical development activities and clinical trials.  We may incur losses from our operations for the foreseeable future and these losses could increase as we continue our research activities and conduct development of, and seek regulatory approvals and clearances for, our product candidates, and prepare for and begin to commercialize any approved or cleared products, particularly if we are unable to generate profits and cash flow from BioReference and our other commercial businesses.  If we are unable to generate profits and cash flow from BioReference and our other commercial businesses, our product candidates fail in clinical trials or do not gain regulatory approval or clearance, or if our approved products and product  candidates do not achieve market acceptance, we may never become profitable.  In particular, if we are unable to successfully commercialize Rayaldee, we may never generate substantial revenues from Rayaldee or achieve profitability. In addition, if we are required by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (\"FDA\"), to perform studies in addition to those we currently anticipate, our expenses will increase beyond current expectations and the timing of any potential product approval may be delayed.  Even if we achieve profitability in the future, we may not be able to sustain profitability in subsequent periods.. We may require substantial additional funding, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all.. As of December 31, 2017, we have cash and cash equivalents of $91.5 million.  We believe we have sufficient cash and cash equivalents on hand or available to us from operations or through lines of credit to meet our anticipated cash requirements for operations and debt service beyond the next 12 months.  We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong or subject to change, and we may be required to use our available capital resources sooner than we currently expect or curtail aspects of our operations in order to preserve our capital.  Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with the development and commercialization of our products and product candidates, the success of our relationships with Pfizer, VFMCRP and JT and the success of our integration of BioReference and Transition Therapeutics, we are unable to estimate the amounts of increased capital outlays and operating expenditures associated with our current and anticipated clinical trials and our expanded commercial operations.  Our future capital requirements will depend on a number of factors, including the successful commercialization of Rayaldee, our relationships with Pfizer, VFMCRP, and JT, cash flow generated by BioReference and costs associated with the integration of the BioReference and Transition Therapeutics operations, the continued progress of our research and development of product candidates, the timing and outcome of clinical trials and regulatory approvals, the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending, and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights, the status of competitive products, the availability of financing, and our success in developing markets for our products and product candidates.. Until we can generate a sufficient amount of product and service revenue to finance our cash requirements for research, development and operations, we will need to finance future cash needs primarily through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, or strategic collaborations.  Our ability to obtain additional capital may depend on prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors beyond our control.  Disruptions in the U.S. and global financial markets may adversely impact the availability and cost of credit, as well as our ability to raise money in the capital markets.  Economic conditions have been, and continue to be, volatile.  Continued instability in these market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities and access the capital necessary to fund and grow our business.  There can be no assurance that additional capital will be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, liquidity, capital resources and financial condition.  If we are not able to secure additional funding when needed, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our clinical trials or research and development programs.  To the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience additional significant dilution, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants.  To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or our products and product candidates or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us.  We may seek to access the public or private capital markets whenever conditions are favorable, even if we do not have an immediate need for additional capital at that time.. 26. Our research and development activities may not result in commercially viable products.. Many of our product candidates are in the early stages of development and are prone to the risks of failure inherent in drug, diagnostic, and medical device product development.  These risks further include the possibility that such products would:. • be found to be ineffective, unreliable, or otherwise inadequate or otherwise fail to receive regulatory approval;. • be difficult or impossible to manufacture on a commercial scale;. • be uneconomical to market or otherwise not be effectively marketed;. • fail to be successfully commercialized if adequate reimbursement from government health administration authorities, private health insurers, and other organizations for the costs of these products is unavailable;. • be impossible to commercialize because they infringe on the proprietary rights of others or compete with products marketed by others that are superior; or. • fail to be commercialized prior to the successful marketing of similar products by competitors.. The results of pre-clinical trials and previous clinical trials for our products may not be predictive of future results, and our current and planned clinical trials may not satisfy the requirements of the FDA or other non-U.S. regulatory authorities.. Positive results from pre-clinical studies and early clinical trial experience should not be relied upon as evidence that later-stage or large-scale clinical trials will succeed.  Likewise, there can be no assurance that the results of studies conducted by collaborators or other third parties will be viewed favorably or are indicative of our own future study results.  We may be required to demonstrate with substantial evidence through well-controlled clinical trials that our product candidates are either (i) with respect to drugs or Class III devices, safe and effective for use in a diverse population of their intended uses or (ii) with respect to Class I or Class II devices, are substantially equivalent in terms of safety and effectiveness to devices that are already marketed under section 510(k) of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act.  Success in early clinical trials does not mean that future clinical trials will be successful because product candidates in later-stage clinical trials may fail to demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the FDA and other non-U.S. regulatory authorities despite having progressed through initial clinical trials.. Further, our drug candidates may not be approved or cleared even if they achieve their primary endpoints in phase 3 clinical trials or registration trials.  In addition, our diagnostic test candidates may not be approved or cleared, as the case may be, even though clinical or other data are, in our view, adequate to support an approval or clearance.  The FDA or other non-regulatory authorities may disagree with our trial design and our interpretation of data from pre-clinical studies and clinical trials.  In addition, any of these regulatory authorities may change requirements for the approval or clearance of a product candidate even after reviewing and providing comment on a protocol for a pivotal clinical trial that has the potential to result in FDA and other non-U.S. regulatory authorities' approval.  Any of these regulatory authorities may also approve or clear a product candidate for fewer or more limited indications or uses than we request or may grant approval or clearance contingent on the performance of costly post-marketing clinical trials.  The FDA or other non-U.S. regulatory authorities may not approve the labeling claims necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of our product candidates.. The results of our clinical trials may show that our product candidates may cause undesirable side effects, which could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials, resulting in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA and other non-U.S. regulatory authorities.. Safety concerns with drug products over the years have resulted in the withdrawal of drug products, revisions to drug labeling that further limit use of the drug products, and establishment of risk management programs that may, for instance, restrict distribution of drug products.  Attention to drug safety issues may result in a more cautious approach by the FDA to clinical trials.  Data from clinical trials may receive greater scrutiny with respect to safety, which may make the FDA or other regulatory authorities more likely to terminate clinical trials before completion, or require longer or additional clinical trials that may result in substantial additional expense and a delay or failure in obtaining approval or approval for a more limited indication than originally sought.. The failure to successfully commercialize Rayaldee would have a material adverse effect on our business.. In June 2016, the FDA approved the Company's New Drug Application for Rayaldee (calcifediol) extended release capsules for the treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism (SHPT) in adults with stage 3 or 4 chronic kidney disease (CKD) and serum total 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels less than 30 ng/mL. The commercial launch for Rayaldee began in November 2016. Rayaldee is our only pharmaceutical product approved for marketing in the U.S. and our ability to generate revenue from product sales and achieve profitability is substantially dependent on our ability to effectively commercialize Rayaldee. Our. 27. failure to successfully commercialize Rayaldee would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Additionally, the market perception and reputation of Rayaldee and its safety and efficacy are important to our business and the continued acceptance of our product candidates and products. Any negative publicity about Rayaldee, such as the discovery of safety issues, adverse events, or even public rumors about such events, could have a material adverse effect on our business.  Levels of market acceptance for Rayaldee could be impacted by several factors, some of which are not within our control, including but not limited to the:. • safety, efficacy, convenience and cost-effectiveness of our products compared to products of our competitors;. • scope of approved uses and marketing approval;. • availability of patent or regulatory exclusivity;. • timing of market approvals and market entry;. • ongoing regulatory obligations following approval;. • any restrictions or \"black box\" warnings required on the labeling of such products:. • availability of alternative products from our competitors;. • acceptance of the price of our products;. • effectiveness of our sales forces and promotional efforts;. • the level of reimbursement of our products;. • acceptance of our products on government and private formularies;. • ability to market our products effectively at the retail level or in the appropriate setting of care; and. • the reputation of our products.. If Rayaldee fails to gain, or loses, market acceptance, our revenues would be adversely impacted and we may be required to take material impairment charges, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. We rely on licensing agreements with Vifor Fresenius Medical Renal Care Pharma Ltd (\"VFMCRP\") and Japan Tobacco (\"JT\") for the international development and marketing of Rayaldee. Failure to maintain these license agreements could prevent us from successfully developing and commercializing Rayaldee worldwide.. In May 2016, EirGen, our wholly-owned subsidiary, partnered with VFMCRP through a Development and License Agreement for the development and marketing of Rayaldee in Europe, Canada, Mexico, Australia, South Korea and certain other international markets.  The license to VFMCRP potentially covers all therapeutic and prophylactic uses of the product in human patients, provided that initially the license is for the use of the product for the treatment or prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism related to patients with stage 3 or 4 chronic kidney disease and vitamin D insufficiency/deficiency. We received a non-refundable and non-creditable upfront payment of $50 million and are eligible to receive up to an additional $232 million upon the achievement of certain regulatory and sales-based milestones.  In addition, we are eligible to receive tiered, double digit royalty payments or a minimum royalty, whichever is greater, upon commencement of sales of the product. The success of the Development and License Agreement with VFMCRP is dependent in part on, among other things, the skills, experience and efforts of VFMCRP's employees responsible for the project, VFMCRP's commitment to the arrangement, and the financial condition of VFMCRP, all of which are beyond our control.  In the event that VFMCRP, for any reason, including but not limited to early termination of the agreement, fails to devote sufficient resources to successfully develop and market Rayaldee internationally, our ability to earn milestone payments or receive royalty payments would be adversely affected, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and prospects.. In October 2017, we entered into a Development and License Agreement (the \"JT Agreement\") with JT under which JT was granted the exclusive rights for the development and commercialization of Rayaldee in Japan. The license grant to JT covers. 28. the therapeutic and preventative use of the product for (i) SHPT in non-dialysis and dialysis patients with CKD, (ii) rickets, and (iii) osteomalacia, as well as such additional indications as may be added to the scope of the license subject to the terms of the JT Agreement. Under the terms of the JT Agreement, we received an initial upfront payment of $6 million and we will receive an additional $6 million upon the initiation of our planned phase 2 study for Rayaldee in dialysis patients in the U.S. We are also eligible to receive up to an additional aggregate amount of $31 million upon the achievement of certain regulatory and development milestones by JT for Rayaldee in Japan, and $75 million upon the achievement of certain sales based milestones by JT. We will also receive tiered, double digit royalty payments at rates ranging from low double digits to mid-teens on net sales within Japan. JT will, at its sole cost and expense, be responsible for performing all development activities necessary to obtain all regulatory approvals for Rayaldee in Japan and for all commercial activities pertaining to Rayaldee in Japan, except for certain preclinical expenses which we have agreed to reimburse JT up to a capped amount.  If JT, for any reason, including but not limited to early termination of the JT Agreement, fails to devote sufficient resources to successfully develop and market Rayaldee in Japan, our ability to earn milestone payments or receive royalty payments would be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and prospects.. Our exclusive worldwide agreement with Pfizer Inc. is important to our business.  If we do not successfully develop hGH- CTP and/or Pfizer Inc. does not successfully commercialize hGH-CTP, our business could be adversely affected.. In December 2014, we entered into a development and commercialization agreement with Pfizer relating to our long-acting hGH- CTP for the treatment of growth hormone deficiency in adults and children.  Under the terms of the agreements with Pfizer, we received non-refundable and non-creditable upfront payments of $295 million and are eligible to receive up to an additional $275 million upon the achievement of certain regulatory milestones.  In addition, we are eligible to receive initial royalty payments associated with the commercialization of hGH-CTP for Adult GHD.  Upon the launch of hGH-CTP for Pediatric GHD, the royalties will transition to a regional, tiered gross profit sharing for both hGH-CTP and Pfizer's Genotropin®.  We are also responsible for the development program and are obligated to pay for the development up to an agreed cap, which may be exceeded under certain circumstances.  If we are required to exceed the agreed cap, it could have a material adverse impact on the expected benefits to us from the Pfizer transaction and our overall financial condition.  In the event that the parties are able to obtain regulatory approvals to market a product covered by the agreement, we will be substantially dependent on Pfizer for the successful commercialization of such product.  The success of the collaboration arrangement with Pfizer is dependent in part on, among other things, the skills, experience and efforts of Pfizer's employees responsible for the project, Pfizer's commitment to the arrangement, and the financial condition of Pfizer, all of which are beyond our control.  In the event that Pfizer, for any reason, including but not limited to early termination of the agreement, fails to devote sufficient resources to successfully develop and commercialize any product resulting from the collaboration arrangement, our ability to earn milestone payments or receive royalty or profit sharing payments would be adversely affected, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and prospects.. Our business is substantially dependent on the success of clinical trials for hGH-CTP and our ability to achieve regulatory approval for the marketing of this product.. There is no assurance that clinical trials for hGH-CTP will be successful or support marketing approval, or that we will be able to obtain marketing approval for the product, or any other product candidate we are developing.  Before they can be marketed, our products in development must be approved by the FDA or similar foreign governmental agencies.  The process for obtaining FDA approval is both time-consuming and costly, with no certainty of a successful outcome.  Before obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of any drug candidate, we must conduct extensive preclinical tests and clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy in humans of our product candidates.  Although the safety profile for hGH-CTP has been consistent with that observed with those treated with daily growth hormone, further testing or patient use may undermine those determinations or unexpected side effects may arise.  A failure of any preclinical study or clinical trial can occur at any stage of testing.  The results of preclinical and initial clinical testing of these products may not necessarily indicate the results that will be obtained from later or more extensive testing.  It also is possible to suffer significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after obtaining promising results in earlier trials.  In December 2016, we announced preliminary topline data from our Phase 3, double blind, placebo controlled study of hGH-CTP in adults with GHD.  Although there was no statistically significant difference between hGH-CTP and placebo on the primary endpoint of change in trunk fat mass from baseline to 26 weeks, after unblinding the study, we identified an exceptional value of trunk fat mass reduction in the placebo group that may have affected the primary outcome. We completed post-hoc sensitivity analyses to evaluate the influence of outliers on the primary endpoint results using multiple statistical approaches. Analyses that excluded outliers showed a statistically significant difference between hGH-CTP and placebo on the change in trunk fat mass. Additional analyses that did not exclude outliers showed mixed results.  There can be no assurance that the FDA will consider the sensitivity analysis or consider the product for approval for adults with GHD.  If phase 3 clinical trials for hGH-CTP are not successful or we are unable to achieve regulatory approval for this product, our business will be significantly adversely impacted, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 29. Our business is substantially dependent on our ability to develop, launch and generate revenue from our diagnostic products.. Our business is dependent on our ability to successfully commercialize the 4Kscore test and other diagnostic products, including the Claros 1.  We are committing significant resources to the development and commercialization of these products, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully commercialize these tests.  We have limited experience in developing, manufacturing, selling, marketing and distributing diagnostic tests.  If we fail to leverage the national marketing, sales and distribution resources of BioReference to enhance sale of, and reimbursement for, the 4Kscore test and other diagnostic products including the Claros 1, our ability to generate substantial revenue from the sale of these products will be adversely impacted.  If we are not able to successfully develop, market or sell diagnostic tests we develop for any reason, including the failure to obtain any required regulatory approvals, obtain reimbursement for, or successfully integrate BioReference, we will not generate any meaningful revenue from the sale of such tests.  Even if we are able to develop effective diagnostic tests for sale in the marketplace, a number of factors could impact our ability to sell such tests or generate any significant revenue from the sale of such tests, including without limitation:. <U+25AA> our ability to establish and maintain adequate infrastructure to support the commercial launch and sale of our diagnostic tests, including establishing adequate laboratory space, information technology infrastructure, sample collection and tracking systems, electronic ordering and reporting systems and other infrastructure and hiring adequate laboratory and other personnel;. <U+25AA> the success of the validation studies for our diagnostic tests under development and our ability to publish study results in peer-reviewed journals;. <U+25AA> the availability of alternative and competing tests or products and technological innovations or other advances in medicine that cause our technologies to be less competitive;. <U+25AA> the accuracy rates of such tests, including rates of false-negatives and/or false-positives;. <U+25AA> concerns regarding the safety or effectiveness or clinical utility of our diagnostic tests;. <U+25AA> changes in the regulatory environment affecting health care and health care providers, including changes in laws regulating laboratory testing and/or device manufacturers;. <U+25AA> the extent and success of our sales and marketing efforts and ability to drive adoption of our diagnostic tests;. <U+25AA> coverage and reimbursement levels by government payors and private insurers;. <U+25AA> pricing pressures and changes in third-party payor reimbursement policies; and. <U+25AA> intellectual property rights held by others or others infringing our intellectual property rights.. Our business is substantially dependent on our ability to generate profits and cash flow from our laboratory operations.. We have made a significant investment in our laboratory operations through the acquisition of BioReference.  We compete in the clinical laboratory market primarily on the basis of the quality of testing, reporting and information systems, reputation in the medical community, the pricing of services and ability to employ qualified personnel.  Our failure to successfully compete on any of these factors could result in the loss of clients and a reduction in our revenues and profits.  To offset efforts by payors to reduce the cost and utilization of clinical laboratory services, we will need to obtain and retain new clients and business partners and grow the laboratory operations.  A reduction in tests ordered, specimens submitted by existing clients, or payment rates, without offsetting growth in our client base, could impact our ability to successfully grow our business and could have a material adverse impact on our ability to generate profits and cash flow from the laboratory operations.. Discontinuation or recalls of existing testing products, failure to develop, or acquire, licenses for new or improved testing technologies or our clients using new technologies to perform their own tests could adversely affect our business.. From time to time, manufacturers discontinue or recall reagents, test kits or instruments used by us to perform laboratory testing.  Such discontinuations or recalls could adversely affect our costs, testing volume and revenue.. The clinical laboratory industry is subject to changing technology and new product introductions.  Our success in maintaining a leadership position in genomic and other advanced testing technologies will depend, in part, on our ability to develop, acquire or license new and improved technologies on favorable terms and to obtain appropriate coverage and reimbursement for these technologies.  We may not be able to negotiate acceptable licensing arrangements and it cannot be certain that such arrangements will yield commercially successful diagnostic tests.  If we are unable to license these testing methods at competitive rates, our research and development costs may increase as a result.  In addition, if we are unable to. 30. license or develop new or improved technologies to expand our esoteric testing operations, our testing methods may become outdated when compared with our competition and testing volume and revenue may be materially and adversely affected.. Currently, most clinical laboratory testing is categorized as \"high\" or \"moderate\" complexity, and thereby is subject to extensive and costly regulation under CLIA.  The cost of compliance with CLIA makes it impractical for most physicians to operate clinical laboratories in their offices, and other laws limit the ability of physicians to have ownership in a laboratory and to refer tests to such a laboratory.  Manufacturers of laboratory equipment and test kits could seek to increase their sales by marketing point-of-care laboratory equipment to physicians and by selling test kits approved for home or physician office use to both physicians and patients.  Diagnostic tests approved for home use are automatically deemed to be \"waived\" tests under CLIA and may be performed in physician office laboratories as well as by patients in their homes with minimal regulatory oversight.  Other tests meeting certain FDA criteria also may be classified as \"waived\" for CLIA purposes.  The FDA has regulatory responsibility over instruments, test kits, reagents and other devices used by clinical laboratories and has taken responsibility from the Centers for Disease Control for classifying the complexity of tests for CLIA purposes.  Increased approval of \"waived\" test kits could lead to increased testing by physicians in their offices or by patients at home, which could affect our market for laboratory testing services and negatively impact our revenues.  If our competitors develop and market products that are more effective, safer or less expensive than our products and product candidates, our net revenues, profitability and commercial opportunities will be negatively impacted.. If our competitors develop and market products or services that are more effective, safer or less expensive than our current and future products or services, our revenues, profitability and commercial opportunities will be negatively impacted.. The pharmaceutical, diagnostic, and laboratory testing industries are highly competitive and require an ongoing, extensive search for technological innovation.  The industries are characterized by rapidly advancing technologies, intense competition and a strong emphasis on proprietary products.  They also require, among other things, the ability to effectively discover, develop, test and obtain regulatory approvals for products, as well as the ability to effectively commercialize, market and promote approved products.. Numerous companies, including major pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies and specialized biotechnology companies, are engaged in the development, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical products competitive with those that we intend to commercialize ourselves and through our partners.  Competitors to our diagnostics business include major diagnostic companies, reference laboratories, molecular diagnostic firms, universities and research institutions.  Most of these companies have substantially greater financial and other resources, larger research and development staffs and more extensive marketing and manufacturing organizations than ours.  This enables them, among other things, to make greater research and development investments and efficiently utilize their research and development costs, as well as their marketing and promotion costs, over a broader revenue base.  This also provides our competitors with a competitive advantage in connection with the highly competitive product acquisition and product in-licensing process, which may include auctions in which the highest bidder wins.  Our competitors may also have more experience and expertise in obtaining marketing approvals from the FDA and other regulatory authorities.  We cannot predict with accuracy the timing or impact of the introduction of potentially competitive products or their possible effect on our sales. In addition to product development, testing, approval, and promotion, other competitive factors in the pharmaceutical and diagnostics industry include industry consolidation, product quality and price, product technology, reputation, customer service, and access to technical information.. In our clinical laboratory operations, we compete with three types of providers in a highly fragmented and competitive industry: hospital laboratories, physician-office laboratories and other independent clinical laboratories.  Our major competitors in the New York metropolitan area are two of the largest national laboratories, Quest Diagnostics and Laboratory Corporation of America.  We are much smaller than these national laboratories.. The clinical laboratory business is intensely competitive both in terms of price and service.  Pricing of laboratory testing services is often one of the most significant factors used by health care providers and third-party payors in selecting a laboratory.  As a result of the clinical laboratory industry undergoing significant consolidation, larger clinical laboratory providers are able to increase cost efficiencies afforded by large-scale automated testing.  This consolidation results in greater price competition.  We may be unable to increase cost efficiencies sufficiently, if at all, and as a result, our net earnings and cash flows could be negatively impacted by such price competition.  Additionally, we may also face changes in contracting with third party payors, fee schedules, competitive bidding for laboratory services or other actions or pressures reducing payment schedules as a result of increased or additional competition.. If our competitors market products that are more effective, safer, easier to use or less expensive than our current products and product candidates, or that reach the market sooner than our products and product candidates, we may not achieve commercial success.  In addition, the biopharmaceutical, diagnostic, medical device, and laboratory industries are characterized by rapid technological change.  Because our research approach integrates many technologies, it may be difficult for us to stay. 31. abreast of the rapid changes in each technology.  If we fail to stay at the forefront of technological change, we may be unable to compete effectively.  Technological advances or products developed by our competitors may render our technologies, products or product candidates obsolete or less competitive.. Our product development activities could be delayed or stopped.. We do not know whether our current or planned pre-clinical and clinical studies will be completed on schedule, or at all.  Furthermore, we cannot guarantee that our planned pre-clinical and clinical studies will begin on time or at all.  The commencement of our planned clinical trials could be substantially delayed or prevented by several factors, including:. <U+25AA> a limited number of, and competition for, suitable patients with the particular types of disease required for enrollment in our clinical trials or that otherwise meet the protocol's inclusion criteria and do not meet any of the exclusion criteria;. <U+25AA> a limited number of, and competition for, suitable serum or other samples from patients with particular types of disease required for our validation studies;. <U+25AA> a limited number of, and competition for, suitable sites to conduct our clinical trials;. <U+25AA> delay or failure to obtain FDA or other non-U.S. regulatory authorities' approval or agreement to commence a clinical trial;. <U+25AA> delay or failure to obtain sufficient supplies of the product candidate for our clinical trials;. <U+25AA> requirements to provide the drugs, diagnostic tests, or medical devices required in our clinical trial protocols or clinical trials at no cost or cost, which may require significant expenditures that we are unable or unwilling to make;. <U+25AA> delay or failure to reach agreement on acceptable clinical trial agreement terms or clinical trial protocols with prospective sites or investigators;. <U+25AA> delay or failure to obtain institutional review board (\"IRB\") approval to conduct or renew a clinical trial at a prospective site; and. <U+25AA> insufficient liquidity to fund our preclinical and clinical studies.. The completion of our clinical trials could also be substantially delayed or prevented by several factors, including:. <U+25AA> slower than expected rates of patient recruitment and enrollment;. <U+25AA> failure of patients to complete the clinical trial;. <U+25AA> unforeseen safety issues;. <U+25AA> lack of efficacy evidenced during clinical trials;. <U+25AA> termination of our clinical trials by one or more clinical trial sites;. <U+25AA> inability or unwillingness of patients or medical investigators to follow our clinical trial protocols;. <U+25AA> inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment; and. <U+25AA> insufficient liquidity to fund ongoing studies.. Our clinical trials may be suspended or terminated at any time by the FDA, other regulatory authorities, the IRB for any given site, or us.  Additionally, changes in regulatory requirements and guidance may occur and we may need to amend clinical trial protocols to reflect these changes with appropriate regulatory authorities.  Amendments may require us to resubmit our clinical trial protocols to IRBs for re-examination, which may impact the costs, timing, or successful completion of a clinical trial.  Any failure or significant delay in commencing or completing clinical trials for our product candidates could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition, as well as the commercial prospects for our product candidates.. We currently have a sixty-four person specialized sales and marketing team for Rayaldee in the U.S.  If we are unable to develop or maintain a strong sales, marketing and distribution capability on our own or through collaborations with marketing partners, we will not be successful in commercializing Rayaldee or our other pharmaceutical products or product candidates in the U.S.. Other than our 64 person specialized sales and marketing team dedicated to Rayaldee, we currently have no pharmaceutical marketing, sales or distribution capabilities in the U.S.  Any failure or inability to  maintain adequate sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities would adversely impact the commercialization of Rayaldee or our other pharmaceutical. 32. products or candidates.  If we are not successful in commercializing our existing and future pharmaceutical products and product candidates, either on our own or through collaborations with one or more third parties, our product revenue will suffer and we may incur significant additional losses.. Our approved products or product candidates may have undesirable side effects and cause our products to be taken off the market.. If we or others identify undesirable side effects caused by our products:. • regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, specific warnings, a contraindication, or field alerts to physicians and pharmacies;. • regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product and require us to take our approved product off the market;. • we may be required to change the way the product is administered, conduct additional clinical trials, or change the labeling of the product;. • we may have limitations on how we promote our products;. • sales of products may decrease significantly;. • we may be subject to litigation or product liability claims; and. • our reputation may suffer.. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product or could substantially increase our commercialization costs and expenses, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating significant revenues from its sale.. Our inability to meet regulatory quality standards applicable to our manufacturing and quality processes and to address quality control issues in a timely manner could delay the production and sale of our products or result in recalls of products.. Manufacturing or design defects, unanticipated use of our products, or inadequate disclosure of risks relating to the use of our products could lead to injury or other adverse events.  These events could lead to recalls or safety alerts relating to our products (either voluntary or required by governmental authorities) and could result, in certain cases, in the removal of a product from the market.  Any recall could result in significant costs as well as negative publicity that could reduce demand for our products.  Personal injuries relating to the use of our products can also result in product liability claims being brought against us.  In some circumstances, such adverse events could also cause delays in new product approvals.. We are committed to providing high quality products to our customers, and we plan to meet this commitment by working diligently to continue implementing updated and improved quality systems and concepts throughout our organization.  We cannot assure you that we will not have quality control issues in the future, which may result in warning letters and citations from the FDA.  If we receive any warning letters from the FDA in the future, there can be no assurances regarding the length of time or cost it will take us to resolve such quality issues to our satisfaction and to the satisfaction of the FDA.  If our remedial actions are not satisfactory to the FDA, we may have to devote additional financial and human resources to our efforts, and the FDA may take further regulatory actions against us including, but not limited to, assessing civil monetary penalties or imposing a consent decree on us, which could result in further regulatory constraints, including the governance of our quality system by a third party.  Our inability to resolve these issues or the taking of further regulatory action by the FDA may weaken our competitive position and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We manufacture pharmaceutical products in Ireland, Mexico, Spain, and Israel.  We also prepare necessary test reagents and assemble and package the cassettes for our point-of-care diagnostic system at our facility in Woburn, Massachusetts.  Any quality control issues at our facilities may weaken our competitive position and have a material adverse effect on our business results of operations and financial condition.. As a medical device manufacturer, we are required to register with the FDA and are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA for compliance with its Quality System Regulation (\"QSR\") requirements, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain regulations, including testing, quality control and documentation procedures.  Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review and is monitored rigorously through periodic inspections by the FDA.  In addition, most international jurisdictions have adopted regulatory approval and periodic renewal requirements for medical devices, and we must comply with these requirements in order to market our products in these jurisdictions.  In the European Community, we are required to maintain certain ISO certifications in order to sell our products and must undergo periodic inspections by notified bodies to obtain and maintain these certifications.  Further, some emerging markets rely on the. 33. FDA's Certificate for Foreign Government (\"CFG\") in lieu of their own regulatory approval requirements.  Our failure, or our manufacturers' failure to meet QSR, ISO, or any other regulatory requirements or industry standards could delay production of our products and lead to fines, difficulties in obtaining regulatory clearances, recalls or other consequences, which could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and our financial condition.. Failure to establish, and perform to, appropriate quality standards to assure that the highest level of quality is observed in the performance of our testing services could adversely affect the results of our operations and adversely impact our reputation.. The provision of clinical testing services, including anatomic pathology services, and related services, and the design, manufacture and marketing of diagnostic products involve certain inherent risks.  The services that we provide and the products that we design, manufacture and market are intended to provide information for healthcare providers in providing patient care.  Therefore, users of our services and products may have a greater sensitivity to errors than the users of services or products that are intended for other purposes.. Similarly, negligence in performing our services can lead to injury or other adverse events.  We may be sued under physician liability or other liability law for acts or omissions by our pathologists, laboratory personnel and other employees.  We are subject to the attendant risk of substantial damages awards and risk to our reputation.. Even after we receive regulatory approval or clearance to market our product candidates, the market may not be receptive to our products.. Our products may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, health care payors and/or the medical community.  We believe that the degree of market acceptance will depend on a number of factors, including:. • timing of market introduction of competitive products;. • safety and efficacy of our product compared to other products;. • prevalence and severity of any side effects;. • potential advantages or disadvantages over alternative treatments;. • strength of marketing and distribution support;. • price of our products, both in absolute terms and relative to alternative treatments;. • availability of coverage and reimbursement from government and other third-party payors;. • potential product liability claims;. • limitations or warnings contained in a product's regulatory authority-approved labeling; and. • changes in the standard of care for the targeted indications for any of our products or product candidates, which could reduce the marketing impact of any claims that we could make following applicable regulatory authority approval.. In addition, our efforts to educate the medical community and health care payors on the benefits of our products and product candidates may require significant resources and may never be successful.  If our products do not gain market acceptance, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. If our products are not covered and eligible for reimbursement from government and third party payors, we may not be able to generate significant revenue or achieve or sustain profitability.. The coverage and reimbursement status of newly approved or cleared drugs, diagnostic and laboratory tests is uncertain, and failure of our pharmaceutical products, diagnostic tests or laboratory to be adequately covered by insurance and eligible for adequate reimbursement could limit our ability to market any future product candidates we may develop and decrease our ability to generate revenue from any of our existing and future product candidates that may be approved or cleared.  The commercial success of our existing and future products in both domestic and international markets will depend in part on the availability of coverage and adequate reimbursement from third-party payors, including government payors, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs, managed care organizations, and other third-party payors, as well as our ability to obtain in network status with such payors.  The government and other third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both insurance coverage and the level of reimbursement for new drugs and diagnostic tests and restricting in network status of laboratory providers. As a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our product candidates.  These payors may conclude that our products are less safe, less effective, or less cost-effective than existing or later-introduced products.  These payors may also conclude that the overall cost of the procedure using one of our devices. 34. exceeds the overall cost of the competing procedure using another type of device, and third-party payors may not approve our products for insurance coverage and adequate reimbursement or approve our laboratory for in network status.. The failure to obtain coverage and adequate or any reimbursement for our products, or health care cost containment initiatives that limit or restrict reimbursement for our products, may reduce any future product revenue.  Even though a drug (not administered by a physician) may be approved by the FDA, this does not mean that a Prescription Drug Plan (\"PDP\"), a private insurer operating under Medicare Part D, will list that drug on its formulary or will set a reimbursement level.  PDPs are not required to make every FDA-approved drug available on their formularies.  If our drug products are not listed on sufficient number of PDP formularies or if the PDPs' levels of reimbursement are inadequate, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Private health plans, such as managed care plans and pharmacy benefit management (PBM) programs may also not include our products on formularies, use other techniques that may restrict access to our products or set a lower reimbursement rate than anticipated.. Additionally, our failure to comply with applicable Medicare, Medicaid and other governmental payor rules could result in our inability to participate in a governmental payor program, our returning funds already paid to us, civil monetary penalties, criminal penalties and/or limitations on the operational function of our laboratory.  If we were unable to receive reimbursement under a governmental payor program, a substantial portion of our revenues would be lost, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. As we evolve from a company primarily involved in development to a company also involved in commercialization of our pharmaceutical and diagnostic products as well as our laboratory testing services, we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth and expanding our operations successfully.. As we advance our product candidates and expand our business, we will need to expand our development, regulatory and commercial infrastructure.  As our operations expand, we expect that we will need to manage additional relationships with various third parties, collaborators and suppliers.  Maintaining these relationships and managing our future growth will impose significant added responsibilities on members of our management.  We must be able to: manage our development efforts and operations effectively; manage our clinical trials effectively; hire, train and integrate additional management, administrative and sales and marketing personnel; improve our managerial, development, operational and finance systems; implement and manage an effective marketing strategy; and expand our facilities, all of which may impose a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure.. Furthermore, we may acquire additional businesses, products or product candidates that complement or augment our existing business.  Integrating any newly acquired business or product could be expensive and time-consuming.  We may not be able to integrate any acquired business or product successfully or operate any acquired business profitably.  Our future financial performance will depend, in part, on our ability to manage any future growth effectively and our ability to integrate any acquired businesses.  We may not be able to accomplish these tasks, and our failure to accomplish any of them could prevent us from successfully growing our company, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our success is dependent to a significant degree upon the involvement and efforts of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Phillip Frost, M.D.. Our success is dependent to a significant degree upon the efforts of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Phillip Frost, M.D., who is essential to our business.  The departure of our CEO for whatever reason or the inability of our CEO to continue to serve in his present capacity could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, and results of operations.  Our CEO has a highly regarded reputation in the pharmaceutical and medical industry and attracts business opportunities and assists both in negotiations with acquisition targets, investment targets, and potential joint venture partners.  Our CEO has also provided financing to the Company, both in terms of a credit agreement and equity investments.  If we lost his services, our relationships with acquisition and investment targets, joint ventures, and investors may suffer and could cause a material adverse impact on our operations, financial condition, and the value of our Common Stock.. If we fail to attract and retain key management and scientific personnel, we may be unable to successfully operate our business and develop or commercialize our products and product candidates.. We will need to expand and effectively manage our managerial, operational, sales, financial, development, and other resources in order to successfully operate our business and pursue our research, development, and commercialization efforts for our products and product candidates.  Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain, and motivate highly qualified management and pre-clinical and clinical personnel.  The loss of the services or support of any of our senior management, particularly Dr. Phillip Frost, our Chairman of the Board and CEO, could delay or prevent the development and commercialization of our products and product candidates.. 35. If the FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities approve generic products that compete with any of our products or product candidates, the sale of our products or product candidates may be adversely affected.. Once an NDA is approved, the product covered thereby becomes a \"listed drug\" which, in turn can be relied upon by potential competitors in support of an approval of an abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA, or 505(b)(2) application.  U.S. laws and other applicable policies provide incentives to manufacturers to create modified, non-infringing versions of a drug to facilitate the approval of an ANDA or other application for a generic substitute.  These manufacturers might only be required to conduct a relatively inexpensive study to show that their product has the same active ingredient(s), dosage form, strength, route of administration, and conditions of use, or labeling, as our product or product candidate and that the generic product is bioequivalent to ours, meaning it is absorbed in the body at the same rate and to the same extent as our product or product candidate.  These generic equivalents, which must meet the same quality standards as branded pharmaceuticals, would be significantly less costly than ours to bring to market and companies that produce generic equivalents are generally able to offer their products at lower prices.  Thus, after the introduction of a generic competitor, a significant percentage of sales of any branded product is typically lost to the generic product.  Accordingly, competition from generic equivalents to our products or product candidates would materially adversely impact our revenues, profitability and cash flows and substantially limit our ability to obtain a return on the investments that we have made in our products and product candidates.. In 2017, Congress reauthorized the Generic Drug User Fee Act (GDUFA).  The generic drug user fee program, established in 2012, is designed to speed the approval of new generic drugs.  In addition, over the past few months, FDA has used its regulatory authority to enact other programs to streamline the path to market for generic drugs.  In addition, a regulatory pathway for biosimilars was established in 2012 including a new user fee program to promote the development of these products that show no clinically meaningful differences from innovator biologics.  Though they have their own statutory market pathway, like generic drugs, biosimilars can receive FDA approval by providing less clinical data than the innovator product.  Biosimilars are expected to be less expensive competitors to innovator biologics reducing prices overall.  We anticipate several new biosimilars reaching the market over the next year.. If we fail to acquire and develop other products or product candidates at all or on commercially reasonable terms, we may be unable to diversify or grow our business.. We intend to continue to rely on acquisitions and in-licensing as a source of our products and product candidates for development and commercialization.  The success of this strategy depends upon our ability to identify, select, and acquire pharmaceutical and diagnostic products, drug delivery technologies, and medical device product candidates.  Proposing, negotiating, and implementing an economically viable product acquisition or license is a lengthy and complex process.  We compete for partnering arrangements and license agreements with pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies, and academic research institutions.  Our competitors may have stronger relationships with third parties with whom we are interested in collaborating and/or may have more established histories of developing and commercializing products.. Most of our competitors also have substantially greater financial and other resources than us.  As a result, our competitors may have a competitive advantage in entering into partnering arrangements with such third parties, as such partnering arrangements are often decided in an auction process in which the highest bidder wins.  In addition, even if we find promising products and product candidates, and generate interest in a partnering or strategic arrangement to acquire such products or product candidates, we may not be able to acquire rights to additional product candidates or approved products on terms that we find acceptable, or at all.. We expect that any product candidate to which we acquire rights will require additional development efforts prior to commercial sale, including extensive clinical testing and approval or clearance by the FDA and other non-U.S. regulatory authorities.  All product candidates are subject to the risks of failure inherent in pharmaceutical, diagnostic test or medical device product development, including the possibility that the product candidate will not be shown to be sufficiently safe and effective for approval by regulatory authorities.  Even if the product candidates are approved or cleared for marketing, we cannot be sure that they would be capable of economically feasible production or commercial success.  If we fail to acquire or develop other product candidates that are capable of economically feasible production and commercial success, our business, results of operations and financial condition and cash flows may be materially adversely affected.. We rely on third parties to manufacture and supply our pharmaceutical and diagnostic products and product candidates.. If our manufacturing partners are unable to produce our products in the amounts that we require, we may not be able to establish a contract and obtain a sufficient alternative supply from another supplier on a timely basis and in the quantities we require.  We expect to continue to depend on third-party contract manufacturers for the foreseeable future.. Our products and product candidates require precise, high quality manufacturing.  Any of our contract manufacturers will be subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA and other non-U.S. regulatory authorities to ensure strict. 36. compliance with QSR regulations for devices or cGMPs for drugs, and other applicable government regulations and corresponding standards relating to matters such as testing, quality control, and documentation procedures.  If our contract manufacturers fail to achieve and maintain high manufacturing standards in compliance with QSR or cGMPs, we may experience manufacturing errors resulting in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or interruptions of production or failures in product testing or delivery, delay or prevention of filing or approval of marketing applications for our products, cost overruns, or other problems that could seriously harm our business.. Any performance failure on the part of our contract manufacturers could delay clinical development or regulatory approval or clearance of our product candidates or commercialization of our products and product candidates, depriving us of potential product revenue and resulting in additional losses.  In addition, our dependence on a third party for manufacturing may adversely affect our future profit margins.  Our ability to replace an existing manufacturer may be difficult because the number of potential manufacturers is limited and the FDA must approve any replacement manufacturer before it can begin manufacturing our products or product candidates.  Such approval would result in additional non-clinical testing and compliance inspections.  It may be difficult or impossible for us to identify and engage a replacement manufacturer on acceptable terms in a timely manner, or at all.. Independent clinical investigators and contract research organizations that we engage to conduct our clinical trials may not be diligent, careful or timely.. We depend on independent clinical investigators to conduct our clinical trials.  Contract research organizations may also assist us in the collection and analysis of data.  These investigators and contract research organizations will not be our employees, and we will not be able to control, other than by contract, the amount of resources, including time, that they devote to products that we develop.  If independent investigators fail to devote sufficient resources to the development of product candidates or clinical trials, or if their performance is substandard, it will delay the marketing approval or clearance and commercialization of any products that we develop.  Further, the FDA requires that we comply with standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practice, for conducting, recording and reporting clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity, and confidentiality of trial subjects are protected.  If our independent clinical investigators and contract research organizations fail to comply with good clinical practice, the results of our clinical trials could be called into question and the clinical development of our product candidates could be delayed.. Failure of clinical investigators or contract research organizations to meet their obligations to us or comply with federal regulations and good clinical practice procedures could adversely affect the clinical development of our product candidates and harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. If the validity of an informed consent from a subject was to be challenged, it may negatively impact our product development efforts.. We take steps to ensure that all clinical data and genetic and other biological samples are collected from subjects who provide informed consent for the data and samples as required by applicable laws and we work to ensure that the subjects from whom our data and samples are collected do not retain any proprietary or commercial rights to the data or samples or any discoveries derived from them.  However, because we may collect data and samples from countries that are governed by a number of different regulatory regimes, there are many complex legal questions relating to the adequacy of informed consent that we must continually address.  The adequacy of any given subject's informed consent may be challenged in the future, and any given informed consent may prove unlawful or otherwise inadequate for our purposes.  Any findings against us, or our clinical collaborators, could obligate us to stop using some of our clinical samples, which in turn may hinder our product development efforts.  Such a result would also likely involve legal challenges that may consume our management and financial resources.. Failure to timely or accurately bill and collect for our services could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and our business.. Billing for laboratory testing services is extremely complicated and is subject to extensive and non-uniform rules and administrative requirements.  Depending on the billing arrangement and applicable law, we bill various payors, such as patients, insurance companies, Medicare, Medicaid, physicians, hospitals and employer groups.  Changes in laws and regulations and payor practices increase the complexity and cost of our billing process.  Additionally, in the U.S., third-party payors generally require billing codes on claims for reimbursement that describe the services provided.  For laboratory services, the American Medical Association establishes most of the billing codes using a data code set called Current Procedural Terminology, or CPT, codes and the World Health Organization establishes diagnostic codes using a data set called International Statistical Classification of Diseases, or ICD-10, codes.  Each third-party payor generally develops payment amounts and coverage policies for their beneficiaries or members that ties to the CPT code established for the laboratory test and the ICD-10 code selected by the ordering or performing physician.  Therefore, coverage and reimbursement may differ by. 37. payor even if the same billing code is reported for claims filing purposes.  For laboratory tests without a specific billing code, payors often review claims on a claim-by-claim basis and there are increased uncertainties as to coverage and eligibility for reimbursement.. In addition to the items described above, third-party payers, including government programs, may decide to deny payment or recoup payments for testing that they contend was improperly billed or not medically necessary, against their coverage determinations, or for which they believe they have otherwise overpaid (including as a result of their own error), and we may be required to refund payments already received. Our revenues may be subject to retroactive adjustment as a result of these factors among others, including without limitation, differing interpretations of billing and coding guidance and changes by government agencies and payors in interpretations, requirements, and \"conditions of participation\" in various programs.. We implemented a new billing system for our laboratory business in the third quarter of 2016.  The adoption of the new billing system, which replaced the old billing system, poses several challenges relating to, among other things, training of personnel, communication of new rules and procedures, changes in corporate culture, migration of data, and the potential instability of the new system. As an integral part of our billing compliance program, we assess our billing and coding practices in the ordinary course of business, respond to payor audits on a routine basis, and investigate reported failures or suspected failures to comply with federal and state healthcare reimbursement requirements, as well as overpayment claims which may arise from time to time without fault on the part of the Company. We have in the ordinary course of business been the subject of recoupments by payors and have from time to time identified and reimbursed payors for overpayments.. .. Incorrect or incomplete documentation and billing information, as well as the other items described above, among other factors, could result in non-payment for services rendered or having to pay back amounts incorrectly billed and collected.  Further, the failure to timely or correctly bill could lead to various penalties, including: (1) exclusion from participation in CMS and other government programs; (2) asset forfeitures; (3) civil and criminal fines and penalties; and (4) the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows.Failure in our information technology systems, including by cybersecurity attacks or other data security incidents, could significantly increase testing turn-around time or billing processes and otherwise disrupt our operations.. Our operations depend, in part, on the continued performance of our information technology systems.  Our information technology systems are potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar disruptions.  In addition, we are in the process of integrating the information technology systems of our subsidiaries, and we may experience system failures or interruptions as a result of this process.  Sustained system failures or interruption of our systems in one or more of our laboratory operations could disrupt our ability to process laboratory requisitions, perform testing, provide test results in a timely manner and/or bill the appropriate party.  Failure of our information technology systems could adversely affect our business, profitability and financial condition.. A successful cybersecurity attack or other data security incident could result in the misappropriation and/or loss of confidential or personal information, create system interruptions, or deploy malicious software that attacks our systems.  It is possible that a cybersecurity attack might not be noticed for some period of time.  The occurrence of a cybersecurity attack or incident could result in business interruptions from the disruption of our information technology systems, or negative publicity resulting in reputational damage with our customers, shareholders and other stakeholders and/or increased costs to prevent, respond to or mitigate cybersecurity events.  In addition, the unauthorized dissemination of sensitive personal information or proprietary or confidential information could expose us or other third-parties to regulatory fines or penalties, litigation and potential liability, or otherwise harm our business.. Healthcare plans have taken steps to control the utilization and reimbursement of healthcare services, including clinical test services.. We also face efforts by non-governmental third-party payors, including healthcare plans, to reduce utilization and reimbursement for clinical testing services.. The healthcare industry has experienced a trend of consolidation among healthcare insurance plans, resulting in fewer but larger insurance plans with significant bargaining power to negotiate fee arrangements with healthcare providers, including clinical testing providers.  These healthcare plans, and independent physician associations, may demand that clinical testing providers accept discounted fee structures or assume all or a portion of the financial risk associated with providing testing services to their members through capped payment arrangements.  In addition, some healthcare plans limit the laboratory network to only a single national or regional laboratory to obtain improved fee-for-service pricing.  There is also an increasing number of patients enrolling in consumer driven products and high deductible plans that involve greater patient cost-sharing.. 38. The increased consolidation among healthcare plans also has increased the potential adverse impact of ceasing to be a contracted provider with any such insurer.. We expect continuing efforts to limit the number of participating laboratories in payor networks, reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls and to reduce utilization of clinical test services.  These efforts, including future changes in third-party payor rules, practices and policies, or failing to become a contracted provider or ceasing to be a contracted provider to a healthcare plan, may have a material adverse effect on our business.. The success of our business may be dependent on the actions of our collaborative partners.. We have entered into and expect in the future to enter into collaborative arrangements with established multi-national pharmaceutical, diagnostic, and medical device companies, which will finance or otherwise assist in the development, manufacture and marketing of products incorporating our technology.  We anticipate deriving some revenues from research and development fees, license fees, milestone payments, and royalties from collaborative partners.  Our prospects, therefore, may depend to some extent upon our ability to attract and retain collaborative partners and to develop technologies and products that meet the requirements of prospective collaborative partners.  In addition, our collaborative partners may have the right to abandon research projects, guide strategy regarding prosecution of relevant patent applications and terminate applicable agreements, including funding obligations, prior to or upon the expiration of the agreed-upon research terms.  There can be no assurance that we will be successful in establishing collaborative arrangements on acceptable terms or at all, that collaborative partners will not terminate funding before completion of projects, that our collaborative arrangements will result in successful product commercialization, or that we will derive any revenues from such arrangements.  To the extent that we are unable to develop and maintain collaborative arrangements, we would need substantial additional capital to undertake research, development, and commercialization activities on our own.. If we are unable to obtain and enforce patent protection for our products, our business could be materially harmed.. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect proprietary methods and technologies that we develop or license under the patent and other intellectual property laws of the U.S. and other countries, so that we can prevent others from unlawfully using our inventions and proprietary information.  However, we may not hold proprietary rights to some patents required for us to commercialize our products and product candidates.  Because certain U.S. patent applications are confidential, third parties may have filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending patent applications without our being aware of those applications, and our patent applications may not have priority over those applications.  For this and other reasons, we or our third-party collaborators may be unable to secure desired patent rights, thereby losing desired exclusivity.  If licenses are not available to us on acceptable terms, we may not be able to market the affected products or conduct the desired activities, unless we challenge the validity, enforceability, or infringement of the third-party patent or otherwise circumvent the third-party patent.. Our strategy depends on our ability to rapidly identify and seek patent protection for our discoveries.  In addition, we will rely on third-party collaborators to file patent applications relating to proprietary technology that we develop jointly during certain collaborations.  The process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time-consuming.  If our present or future collaborators fail to file and prosecute all necessary and desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner, our business will be adversely affected.  Unauthorized parties may be able to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary.. The issuance of a patent does not guarantee that it is valid or enforceable.  Any patents we have obtained, or obtain in the future, may be challenged, invalidated, unenforceable, or circumvented.  Moreover, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (\"USPTO\") may commence interference proceedings involving our patents or patent applications.  In addition, court decisions may introduce uncertainty in the enforceability or scope of patents owned by biotechnology, pharmaceutical, and medical device companies.  Any challenge to, finding of unenforceability or invalidation or circumvention of, our patents or patent applications would be costly, would require significant time and attention of our management, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents.  The patent position of pharmaceutical, biotechnology, diagnostic, and medical device companies, including ours, is generally uncertain and involves complex legal and factual considerations.  The standards that the USPTO and its foreign counterparts use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change.  There is also no uniform, worldwide policy regarding the subject matter and scope of claims granted or allowable in pharmaceutical, biotechnology, diagnostic, or medical device patents.  Accordingly, we do not know the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights or the breadth of claims that will be allowed in any patents issued to us or to others.  The legal systems of certain countries do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patents, and the laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S.  Therefore, the enforceability or scope of our owned or licensed patents in the U.S. or in foreign countries cannot be predicted with certainty, and, as a result,. 39. any patents that we own or license may not provide sufficient protection against competitors.  We may not be able to obtain or maintain patent protection for our pending patent applications, those we may file in the future, or those we may license from third parties.. We cannot assure you that any patents that have issued, that may issue, or that may be licensed to us will be enforceable or valid, or will not expire prior to the commercialization of our products and product candidates, thus allowing others to more effectively compete with us.  Therefore, any patents that we own or license may not adequately protect our products and product candidates or our future products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected.. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on other proprietary rights, including protection of trade secrets, know-how, and confidential and proprietary information.  To maintain the confidentiality of trade secrets and proprietary information, we will seek to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, and collaborators upon the commencement of their relationships with us.  These agreements generally require that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us during the course of the individual's relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties.  Our agreements with employees also generally provide that any inventions conceived by the individual in the course of rendering services to us shall be our exclusive property.. However, we may not obtain these agreements in all circumstances, and individuals with whom we have these agreements may not comply with their terms.  In the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets or proprietary information, these agreements, even if obtained, may not provide meaningful protection, particularly for our trade secrets or other confidential information.  To the extent that our employees, consultants, or contractors use technology or know-how owned by third parties in their work for us, disputes may arise between us and those third parties as to the rights in related inventions.. Adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information.  The disclosure of our trade secrets would impair our competitive position and may materially harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We will rely heavily on licenses from third parties.  Failure to comply with the provisions of these licenses could result in the loss of our rights under the license agreements.. Many of the patents and patent applications in our patent portfolio are not owned by us, but are licensed from third parties.  Such license agreements give us rights for the commercial exploitation of the patents resulting from the respective patent applications, subject to certain provisions of the license agreements.  Failure to comply with these provisions could result in the loss of our rights under these license agreements.  Our inability to rely on these patents and patent applications, which are the basis of our technology, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We license patent rights to certain of our technology from third-party owners.  If such owners do not properly maintain or enforce the patents underlying such licenses, our competitive position and business prospects will be harmed.. We have obtained licenses from, among others, INEOS Healthcare, the President and Fellows of Harvard College, The Scripps Research Institute, Arctic Partners, TESARO, and Academia Sinica, among others, that are necessary or useful for our business.  In addition, we intend to enter into additional licenses of third-party intellectual property in the future.  We cannot guarantee that no third parties will step forward and assert inventorship or ownership in our in-licensed patents.  In some cases, we may rely on the assurances of our licensors that all ownership rights have been secured and that all necessary agreements are intact or forthcoming.. Our success will depend in part on our ability or the ability of our licensors to obtain, maintain, and enforce patent protection for our licensed intellectual property and, in particular, those patents to which we have secured exclusive rights in our field.  We or our licensors may not successfully prosecute the patent applications which are licensed to us.  Even if patents issue in respect of these patent applications, we or our licensors may fail to maintain these patents or may determine not to pursue litigation against other companies that are infringing these patents.  Without protection for the intellectual property we have licensed, other companies might be able to offer substantially identical products for sale, which could adversely affect our competitive business position and harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties.. 40. Other entities may have or obtain patents or proprietary rights that could limit our ability to develop, manufacture, use, sell, offer for sale or import products, or impair our competitive position.  In addition, other entities may have or obtain patents or proprietary rights that cover our current research and preclinical studies.  The U.S. case law pertaining to statutory exemptions to patent infringement for those who are using third party patented technology in the process of pursuing FDA regulatory approval changes over time.  Lawsuits involving such exemptions are very fact intensive and it is currently unclear under U.S. case law whether preclinical studies would always qualify for such an exemption, and whether such exemptions would apply to research tools.  To the extent that our current research and preclinical studies may be covered by the patent rights of others, the risk of suit may continue after such patents expire because the statute of limitations for patent infringement runs for six years.  To the extent that a third party develops and patents technology that covers our products, we may be required to obtain licenses to that technology, which licenses may not be available or may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.  If licenses are not available to us on acceptable terms, we will not be able to market the affected products or conduct the desired activities, unless we challenge the validity, enforceability or infringement of the third-party patent, or circumvent the third-party patent, which would be costly and would require significant time and attention of our management.  Third parties may have or obtain by license or assignment valid and enforceable patents or proprietary rights that could block us from developing products using our technology.  Our failure to obtain a license to any technology that we require may materially harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. If we become involved in patent litigation or other proceedings related to a determination of rights, we could incur substantial costs and expenses, substantial liability for damages or be required to stop our product development and commercialization efforts.. Third parties may sue us for infringing their patent rights.  Likewise, we may need to resort to litigation to enforce a patent issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of proprietary rights of others.  In addition, a third-party may claim that we have improperly obtained or used its confidential or proprietary information.  Furthermore, in connection with our third-party license agreements, we generally have agreed to indemnify the licensor for costs incurred in connection with litigation relating to intellectual property rights.  The cost to us of any litigation or other proceeding relating to intellectual property rights, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial, and the litigation would divert our management's efforts.  Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources.  Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could limit our ability to continue our operations.  Our involvement in patent litigation and other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. If any parties successfully claim that our creation or use of proprietary technologies infringes upon their intellectual property rights, we might be forced to pay damages, potentially including treble damages, if we are found to have willfully infringed on such parties' patent rights.  In addition to any damages we might have to pay, a court could require us to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license.  Any license required under any patent may not be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all.  In addition, such licenses are likely to be non-exclusive and, therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us.  If we fail to obtain a required license and are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to effectively market some of our technology and products, which could limit our ability to generate revenues or achieve profitability and possibly prevent us from generating revenue sufficient to sustain our operations.. We have faced, and may in the future face, intellectual property infringement claims that could be time-consuming and costly to defend, and could result in our loss of significant rights and the assessment of treble damages.. We may from time to time receive notices of claims of infringement and misappropriation or misuse of other parties' proprietary rights.  Some of these additional claims may also lead to litigation.  We cannot assure you that we will prevail in such actions, or that other actions alleging misappropriation or misuse by us of third-party trade secrets, infringement by us of third-party patents and trademarks or the validity of our patents, will not be asserted or prosecuted against us.. We may also initiate claims to defend our intellectual property or to seek relief on allegations that we use, sell, or offer to sell technology that incorporates third party intellectual property.  Intellectual property litigation, regardless of outcome, is expensive and time-consuming, could divert management's attention from our business and have a material negative effect on our business, operating results or financial condition.  If there is a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay substantial damages (including treble damages if we were to be found to have willfully infringed a third party's patent) to the party claiming infringement, develop non-infringing technology, stop selling our tests or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be available on acceptable or commercially practical terms, if at all.  Our failure to develop non-infringing technologies or license the proprietary rights on a timely basis could harm our business.. 41. It is possible that a third party or patent office might take the position that one or more patents or patent applications constitute prior art in the field of genomic-based diagnostics.  In such a case, we might be required to pay royalties, damages and costs to firms who own the rights to these patents, or we might be restricted from using any of the inventions claimed in those patents.. We may become subject to product liability for our diagnostic tests, clinical trials, pharmaceutical products and medical device products.. Our success depends on the market's confidence that we can provide reliable, high-quality pharmaceuticals, medical devices, and diagnostics tests.  Our reputation and the public image of our products or technologies may be impaired if our products fail to perform as expected or our products are perceived as difficult to use.  Our products are complex and may develop or contain undetected defects or errors.  Furthermore, if product or future product candidate harms people, or is alleged to be harmful, we may be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims brought against us by clinical trial participants, consumers, health care providers, corporate partners or others.  We have product liability insurance covering commercial sales of current products and our ongoing clinical trials.  Any defects or errors could lead to the filing of product liability claims, which could be costly and time-consuming to defend and result in substantial damages.  If we experience a sustained material defect or error, this could result in loss or delay of revenues, delayed market acceptance, damaged reputation, diversion of development resources, legal claims, increased insurance costs or increased service and warranty costs, any of which could materially harm our business.  We cannot assure you that our product liability insurance would protect our assets from the financial impact of defending a product liability claim.  A product liability claim could have a serious adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Adverse results in material litigation matters or governmental inquiries could have a material adverse effect upon our business and financial condition.. We may from time to time become subject in the ordinary course of business to material legal action related to, among other things, intellectual property disputes, professional liability, contractual and employee-related matters, as well as inquiries from governmental agencies and Medicare or Medicaid carriers and other payors requesting comment and information on allegations of billing irregularities and other matters that are brought to their attention through billing audits, third parties or other sources.  The health care industry is subject to substantial federal and state government regulation and audit.  Legal actions could result in substantial monetary damages as well as damage to the Company's reputation with customers, which could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations and financial position.. RISKS RELATED TO REGULATORY COMPLIANCE. Our ability to successfully operate our laboratories and develop and commercialize certain of our diagnostic tests and LDTs will depend on our ability to maintain required regulatory licensures and comply with all the CLIA requirements.. In order to successfully operate our laboratory business and offer certain of our diagnostic tests and LDTs, we must maintain our CLIA certification and comply with all the CLIA requirements.  CLIA is designed to ensure the quality and reliability of clinical laboratories by mandating specific standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration and participation in proficiency testing, patient test management, quality control, quality assurance and inspections.  The sanction for failure to comply with CLIA requirements may be suspension, revocation or limitation of a laboratory's CLIA certificate, which is necessary to conduct business, as well as significant fines and/or criminal penalties.  Laboratories must undergo on-site surveys at least every two years, which may be conducted by the Federal CLIA program or by a private CMS approved accrediting agency such as CAP, among others.  Our laboratories are also subject to regulation of laboratory operations under state clinical laboratory laws as will be any new CLIA-certified laboratory that we establish or acquire.  State clinical laboratory laws may require that laboratories and/or laboratory personnel meet certain qualifications, specify certain quality controls or require maintenance of certain records.  Certain states, such as California, Florida, Maryland, New York, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island, require that laboratories obtain licenses to test specimens from patients residing in those states and additional states may require similar licenses in the future.  If we are unable to obtain and maintain licenses from states where required, we will not be able to process any samples from patients located in those states.  Only Washington and New York States are exempt under CLIA, as these states have established laboratory quality standards at least as stringent as CLIA's.  Potential sanctions for violation of these statutes and regulations include significant fines and the suspension or loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. If we fail to comply with CLIA requirements, HHS or state agencies could require us to cease diagnostic testing.  Even if it were possible for us to bring our laboratories back into compliance after failure to comply with such requirements, we could incur significant expenses and potentially lose revenues in doing so.  Moreover, new interpretations of current regulations or future changes in regulations under CLIA may make it difficult or impossible for us to comply with the CLIA classification, which would significantly harm our business and materially adversely affect our financial condition.. 42. The regulatory approval process is expensive, time consuming and uncertain and may prevent us or our collaboration partners from obtaining approvals for the commercialization of some or all of our product candidates.. The research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, approval, selling, marketing, and distribution of drug products, diagnostic products, or medical devices are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other non-U.S. regulatory authorities, which regulations differ from country to country.  In general, we are not permitted to market our product candidates in the U.S. until we receive approval of a Biologics License Application (BLA), an approval of a NDA, a clearance letter under the premarket notification process, or 510(k) process, or an approval of a PMA from the FDA.  To date, we have only submitted one NDA  which was approved in June 2016.  We have not received marketing approval or clearance for any of our diagnostic product candidates, other than a CE Mark for our point-of-care PSA test and a CE Mark for our 4Kscore test.  We submitted our PMA for the PSA test in November 2017 and are actively engaged with FDA in the review of the PMA.  Obtaining approval of a NDA or PMA can be a lengthy, expensive, and uncertain process.  With respect to medical devices, while the FDA reviews and clears a premarket notification in as little as three months, there is no guarantee that our products will qualify for this more expeditious regulatory process, which is reserved for Class I and II devices, nor is there any assurance that even if a device is reviewed under the 510(k) process that the FDA will review it expeditiously or determine that the device is substantially equivalent to a lawfully marketed non-PMA device.  If the FDA fails to make this finding, then we cannot market the device.  In lieu of acting on a premarket notification, the FDA may seek additional information or additional data which would further delay our ability to market the product.  Furthermore, we are not permitted to make changes to a device approved through the PMA or 510(k) which affects the safety or efficacy of the device without first submitting a supplement application to the PMA and obtaining FDA approval or cleared premarket notification for that supplement.  In some cases, the FDA may require clinical trials to support a supplement application.  In addition, failure to comply with FDA, non-U.S. regulatory authorities, or other applicable U.S. and non-U.S. regulatory requirements may, either before or after product approval or clearance, if any, subject our company to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including, but not limited to the following:. <U+25AA> restrictions on the products, manufacturers, or manufacturing process;. <U+25AA> adverse inspectional observations (Form 483), warning letters, or non-warning letters incorporating inspectional observations;. <U+25AA> civil and criminal penalties;. <U+25AA> injunctions;. <U+25AA> suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals or clearances;. <U+25AA> product seizures, detentions, or import bans;. <U+25AA> voluntary or mandatory product recalls and publicity requirements;. <U+25AA> total or partial suspension of production;. <U+25AA> imposition of restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; and. <U+25AA> refusal to approve or clear pending NDAs or supplements to approved NDAs, applications or pre-market notifications.. Regulatory approval of an NDA or NDA supplement, BLA, PMA, PMA supplement or clearance pursuant to a pre-market notification is not guaranteed, and the approval or clearance process, as the case may be, is expensive and may, especially in the case of an NDA or PMA application, take several years.  The FDA also has substantial discretion in the drug and medical device approval and clearance process.  Failure can occur at any stage, and we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon clinical trials or to repeat or perform additional pre-clinical studies and clinical trials.  The number of pre-clinical studies and clinical trials that will be required for FDA approval or clearance varies depending on the drug or medical device candidate, the disease or condition that the drug or medical device candidate is designed to address, and the regulations applicable to any particular drug or medical device candidate.  The FDA can delay, limit or deny approval or clearance of a drug or medical device candidate for many reasons, including:. <U+25AA> a drug candidate may not be deemed safe or effective;. <U+25AA> a medical device candidate may not be deemed to be substantially equivalent to a lawfully marketed non-PMA device, in the case of a premarket notification;. <U+25AA> the FDA may not find the data from pre-clinical studies and clinical trials sufficient;. <U+25AA> the FDA may not approve our or our third-party manufacturer's processes or facilities; or. <U+25AA> the FDA may change its approval or clearance policies or adopt new regulations.. 43. Beyond these risks, there is also a possibility that our licensees or collaborators could decide to discontinue a study at any time for commercial, scientific or other reasons.. Regulation by governmental authorities in the U.S. and other countries may be a significant factor in how we develop, test, produce and market our diagnostic test products.  Diagnostic tests like ours may not fall squarely within the regulatory approval process for pharmaceutical or device products as described above, and the regulatory pathway is not as clear.  It is possible that the diagnostic products developed by us or our collaborators will be regulated as medical devices by the FDA and comparable agencies of other countries and require either PMA or 510(k) clearance from the FDA prior to marketing.  Some companies that have successfully commercialized diagnostic tests for various conditions and disease states have not sought clearance or approval for such tests through the traditional 510(k) or PMA processes, and have instead utilized a process involving LDTs through a CLIA- certified laboratory.  CLIA is a federal law that regulates clinical laboratories that perform testing on specimens derived from humans for the purpose of providing information for diagnostic, preventative or treatment purpose.  In such instances, the CLIA lab is solely responsible for the development, validation and commercialization of the assay.. Such LDT testing is currently under the purview of CMS and state agencies that provide oversight of the safe and effective use of LDTs.  However, the FDA has consistently asserted that it has the regulatory authority to regulate LDTs despite historically exercising enforcement discretion.  In furtherance of that position, the FDA issued two draft guidance documents in October 2014: Framework for Regulatory Oversight of Laboratory Developed Tests (the \"Framework Guidance\"); and (2) FDA Notification and Medical Device Reporting for Laboratory Developed Tests (the \"Notification Guidance\").  The Framework Guidance outlines the FDA's plan to adopt over time a risk-based approach to regulating LDTs whereby different classifications of LDTs would be subject to different levels of FDA oversight and enforcement, including, for example, prohibitions on adulteration and misbranding, establishment registration and device listing, premarket notification, banned devices, records and reports, good manufacturing practices, adverse event reporting, premarket review of safety, effectiveness, and clinical validity, and quality system requirements.  The Notification Guidance is intended to explain how clinical laboratories should notify the FDA of the LDTs they develop and how to satisfy Medical Device Reporting requirements.  On January 13, 2017, the FDA published a synthesis of feedback on the Framework Guidance and Notification Guidance titled, Discussion Paper on Laboratory Developed Tests (the \"Discussion Paper\"). The Discussion Paper provided notice that the FDA would not issue a final guidance on the oversight of LDTs to allow for further public discussion on appropriate oversight approach, and to give congressional authorizing committees the opportunity to develop a legislative solution. The outcome and ultimate impact of such proposals on the business is difficult to predict at this time. However, the FDA's authority to regulate LDTs continues to be challenged and the regulatory situation is fluid. The timeline and process for finalizing the draft guidance documents is unknown.  We will continue to monitor changes to all domestic and international LDT regulatory policy so as to ensure compliance with the current regulatory scheme.. The terms of approvals and ongoing regulation of our products may limit how we manufacture and market our products and product candidates, which could materially impair our ability to generate anticipated revenues.. We, our approved or cleared products, and the manufacturers of our products are subject to continual review.  Our approved or cleared products may only be promoted for its indicated uses.  Marketing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, and promotion for our approved products will be subject to extensive regulatory requirements. We train our marketing and sales force against promoting our products for uses outside of the cleared or approved indications for use, known as \"off-label uses.\" If the FDA determines that our promotional materials or training constitute promotion of unsupported claims or an off-label use, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory or enforcement actions, including the issuance of an untitled letter, a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine or criminal penalties. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our business activities to constitute promotion of an off-label use, which could result in significant penalties, including, but not limited to, criminal, civil and/or administrative penalties, damages, fines, disgorgement, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, and the curtailment of our operations.. We and the manufacturers of our products are also required to comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices (\"cGMP\") regulations or the FDA's QSR regulations, which include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation.  Moreover, device manufacturers are required to report adverse events by filing Medical Device Reports with the FDA, which reports are publicly available.. Further, regulatory agencies must approve manufacturing facilities before they can be used to manufacture our products, and these facilities are subject to ongoing regulatory inspection.  If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA and other non-U.S. regulatory authorities, or if previously unknown problems with our products, manufacturers, or manufacturing processes are discovered, we could be subject to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions.  Furthermore,. 44. any limitation on indicated uses for a product or product candidate or our ability to manufacture and promote a product or product candidate could significantly and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. In addition, the FDA and other non-U.S. regulatory authorities may change their policies and additional regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay marketing approval or clearance of our product candidates.  We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the U.S. or abroad.  If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we would likely not be permitted to market our products or product candidates and we may not achieve or sustain profitability, which would materially impair our ability to generate anticipated revenues.. If we fail to comply with complex and rapidly evolving laws and regulations, we could suffer penalties, be required to pay substantial damages or make significant changes to our operations.. We are subject to numerous federal and state regulations, including, but not limited to:. • federal and state laws applicable to billing and claims payment;. • federal and state laboratory anti-mark-up laws;. • federal and state anti-kickback laws;. • physician self-referral law;. • federal and state false claims laws;. • federal self-referral and financial inducement prohibition laws, commonly known as the Stark Law, and the state equivalents;. • federal and state laws governing laboratory licensing and testing, including CLIA;. • federal and state laws governing the development, use and distribution of LDTs;. • HIPAA, along with the revisions to HIPAA as a result of the HITECH Act, and analogous state laws and non-US laws, including the General Data Protection Regulation;. • federal, state and foreign regulation of privacy, security, electronic transactions and identity theft;. • federal, state and local laws governing the handling, transportation and disposal of medical and hazardous waste;. • Occupational Safety and Health Administration rules and regulations;. • changes to laws, regulations and rules as a result of the implementation and/or repeal of part or all of 2010 Health Care Reform Legislation; and. • changes to other federal, state and local laws, regulations and rules, including tax laws.. If we fail to comply with existing or future applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties, including the loss of our licenses to operate our laboratories and our ability to participate in federal and state healthcare programs.  Different interpretations and enforcement policies of existing statutes and regulations applicable to our business could subject our current practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality, or could require us to make significant changes to our operations.  Under the FCA, whistleblower or qui tam provisions allow a private individual to bring actions on behalf of the federal government alleging that the defendant has submitted a false claim to the federal government, and to share in any monetary recovery.  In recent years, the number of suits brought by private individuals has increased dramatically and we may be subject to such suits.  Violations of the FCA could result in enormous economic liability and could have a material impact on the Company. As a result of political, economic, and regulatory influences, the healthcare delivery industry in the U.S. is under intense scrutiny and subject to fundamental changes.  We cannot predict which reform proposals will be adopted, when they may be adopted, or what impact they may have on us.  The costs associated with complying with federal and state regulations could be significant and the failure to comply with any such legal requirements could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity.. Tax reform may significantly affect the Company and its stockholders.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") that significantly reforms the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"). The Tax Act, among other things, includes changes to U.S. federal tax rates, including reduction of the corporate tax rate from a top marginal rate of 35% to a flat rate of 21%, limitations of the tax deduction for interest expense to 30% of adjusted earnings (except for certain small businesses), limitations of the deduction for net operating losses to 80% of current year taxable income and elimination of net operating loss. 45. carrybacks, one time taxation of offshore earnings at reduced rates regardless of whether they are repatriated, elimination of U.S. tax on foreign earnings (subject to certain important exceptions), immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, modifying or repealing many business deductions and credits and putting into effect the migration from a \"worldwide\" system of taxation to a territorial system.  Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the new federal tax law is uncertain and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, it is uncertain if and to what extent various states will adjust their policies in response to the newly enacted federal tax law. The impact of this tax reform as well as other tax laws and regulations in the U.S. or other countries where we do business on holders of our common stock and our operating results and financial position is uncertain and could be adverse.. Failure to maintain the security of patient-related information or compliance with security requirements could damage our reputation with customers, cause us to incur substantial additional costs and become subject to litigation.. Pursuant to HIPAA, and certain similar state laws, we must comply with comprehensive privacy and security standards with respect to the use and disclosure of protected health information.  If the Company does not comply with existing or new laws and regulations related to protecting privacy and security of personal or health information, it could be subject to monetary fines, civil penalties, or criminal sanctions.  Under the HITECH amendments to HIPAA, HIPAA was expanded to require certain data breach notification, to extend certain HIPAA privacy and security standards directly to business associates, to heighten penalties for noncompliance, and enhance enforcement efforts.. The Company may also be required to comply with the data privacy and security laws of other countries in which it operates or from which it receives data transfers. The European Union enacted the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) to replace the current data protection directive, Directive 95/46/EC, which will take effect May 25, 2018, and which has a broader application and enhanced penalties for noncompliance. The GDPR, which is wide-ranging in scope, governs the collection and use of personal data in the EU and will impose operational requirements for companies that receive or process personal data of residents of the European Union that are different than those currently in place in the European Union. The GDPR will apply to our European operations and possibly to our laboratory and clinical development operations. The Company is evaluating the scope of work required to comply with the new EU regulations.. In March 2014, CareEvolve, BioReference's wholly-owned connectivity subsidiary, became aware that there had been a HIPAA breach with regard to one of its servers managed at an internet service provider site called XAND, where the server was inadvertently configured so that it was accessible to the Internet for a brief period.  Upon becoming aware of the matter, CareEvolve immediately took the server offline and removed all indexed files that could be located on the internet. In the meantime, an Internet data collection \"robot\" operated by Google, Inc. had briefly acquired data from a server and made it available to Internet searches.  To the best of our knowledge, there were no known disclosures of this Patient Health Information (\"PHI\") to unauthorized parties.  BioReference self-reported this incident to the appropriate government agency, the Office of Civil Rights (\"OCR\"). OCR notified BioReference that it has initiated an investigation of the breach report, and the Company is awaiting further discussion, investigation and action by OCR. Since March 2014, BioReference has taken meaningful steps to further improve its HIPAA and cybersecurity platform, including engaging independent and specialized IT consultants to conduct HIPAA and cybersecurity assessments, reviewing data security and internal safeguards, and continuously implementing enhanced security measures to minimize the risk of similar occurrences in the future. We have had other data and security breaches in the ordinary course and such breaches may continue to happen from time to time despite our best efforts to prevent such breaches and safeguard private information. Some of these other data and security breaches have been reported to OCR and we are awaiting discussion, investigation or action by OCR.  Any action by OCR may require us to pay fines or take remedial actions that may be expensive and require the attention of management, any of which may have a material adverse effect on the Company and our results of operations.. We have and will continue to receive certain personal and financial information about our clients and their patients.  In addition, we depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks.  While we take reasonable and prudent steps to protect this protected information, a compromise in our security systems that results in client or patient personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons or our failure to comply with security requirements for financial transactions could adversely affect our reputation with our clients and result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties, all of which may adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. Failure to comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including the Federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration Act, the Needlestick Safety and Prevention Act and the Comprehensive Medical Waste Management Act, could result in fines and penalties and loss of licensure, and have a material adverse effect upon our business.. 46. We are subject to licensing and regulation under federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety, including laws and regulations relating to the handling, transportation and disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive materials, as well as regulations relating to the safety and health of laboratory employees.  The Federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration has established extensive requirements relating to workplace safety for health care employers, including clinical laboratories, whose workers may be exposed to blood-borne pathogens such as HIV and the hepatitis B virus.  These requirements, among other things, require work practice controls, protective clothing and equipment, training, medical follow-up, vaccinations and other measures designed to minimize exposure to, and transmission of, blood-borne pathogens.  In addition, the Needlestick Safety and Prevention Act requires, among other things, that we include in our safety programs the evaluation and use of engineering controls such as safety needles if found to be effective at reducing the risk of needlestick injuries in the workplace.. Waste management is subject to federal and state regulations governing the transportation and disposal of medical waste including bodily fluids.  Federal regulations require licensure of interstate transporters of medical waste.  In New Jersey, we are subject to the Comprehensive Medical Waste Management Act (\"CMWMA\"), which requires us to register as a generator of special medical waste.  All of our medical waste is disposed of by a licensed interstate hauler.  The hauler provides a manifest of the disposition of the waste products as well as a certificate of incineration, which is retained by us.  These records are audited by the State of New Jersey on a yearly basis.  We are also subject to the Federal Hazardous materials transportation law, 49 U.S.C. 5101 et seq., and the Hazardous Materials Regulations (\"HMR\"), 49 CFR parts 171-180.  The federal government has classified hazardous medical waste as hazardous materials for the purpose of regulation.  These regulations preempt state regulation, which must be \"substantively the same,\" \"the non-federal requirement must conform \"in every significant respect to the federal requirement.  Editorial and other similar de minimis changes are permitted,\" 49 CFR 107.202(d).. Failure to comply with such federal, state and local laws and regulations could subject us to denial of the right to conduct business, fines, criminal penalties and/or other enforcement actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.  In addition, compliance with future legislation could impose additional requirements us, which may be costly.. Our failure or the failure of third-party payors or physicians to comply with ICD-10-CM Code Set, and our failure to comply with other emerging electronic transaction standards could adversely impact our business.. Compliance with the ICD-10-CM Code Set was required to be in place by October 1, 2015.  The Company will continue its assessment of information systems, applications and processes for compliance with these requirements.  Clinical laboratories are typically required to submit health care claims with diagnosis codes to third party payors.  The diagnosis codes must be obtained from the ordering physician for clinical laboratory testing and from the interpreting pathologist for anatomic pathology services.  Our failure or the failure of third party payors or physicians to comply with these requirements could have an adverse impact on reimbursement, days sales and cash collections.. Also, the failure of our IT systems to keep pace with technological advances may significantly reduce our revenues or increase our expenses.  Public and private initiatives to create healthcare information technology (\"HCIT\") standards and to mandate standardized clinical coding systems for the electronic exchange of clinical information, including test orders and test results, could require costly modifications to our existing HCIT systems.  If we fail to adopt or delay in implementing HCIT standards, we could lose customers and business opportunities.. Failure to comply with complex federal and state laws and regulations related to submission of claims for clinical laboratory services could result in significant monetary damages and penalties and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs.. We are subject to extensive federal and state laws and regulations relating to the submission of claims for payment for clinical laboratory services, including those that relate to coverage of our services under Medicare, Medicaid and other governmental health care programs, the amounts that may be billed for our services and to whom claims for services may be submitted.  These rules may also affect the Company in light of the practice management products that we market, to the extent that these products are considered to affect the manner in which our customers' submit their own claims for services.  Submission of our claims is particularly complex because we provide both anatomic pathology services and clinical laboratory tests, which generally are paid using different reimbursement principles.  The clinical laboratory tests are often paid under a clinical laboratory fee schedule, and the anatomic pathology services are often paid under a physician fee schedule.. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in our inability to receive payment for our services or result in attempts by third-party payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid, to recover payments from us that have already been made.  Submission of claims in violation of certain statutory or regulatory requirements can result in penalties, including substantial civil money penalties for each item or service billed to Medicare in violation of the legal requirement, and exclusion from participation in Medicare and Medicaid.  Government authorities may also assert that violations of laws and regulations related to submission or causing the submission of claims violate the federal False Claims Act (\"FCA\") or other. 47. laws related to fraud and abuse, including submission of claims for services that were not medically necessary.  Under the FCA, whistleblower or qui tam provisions allow a private individual to bring actions on behalf of the federal government alleging that the defendant has submitted a false claim to the federal government, and to share in any monetary recovery.  In recent years, the number of suits brought by private individuals has increased dramatically and we may be subject to such suits.  Violations of the FCA could result in enormous economic liability.  The FCA provides that all damages are trebled, and each false claim submitted is subject to a penalty of up to $21,916.  For example, we could be subject to FCA liability if it was determined that the services we provided were not medically necessary and not reimbursable, particularly if it were asserted that we contributed to the physician's referrals of unnecessary services to us.  It is also possible that the government could attempt to hold us liable under fraud and abuse laws for improper claims submitted by an entity for services that we performed if we were found to have knowingly participated in the arrangement that resulted in submission of the improper claims.. Changes in regulation and policies, including increasing downward pressure on health care reimbursement, may adversely affect reimbursement for diagnostic services and could have a material adverse impact on our business.. Reimbursement levels for health care services are subject to continuous and often unexpected changes in policies, and we face a variety of efforts by government payors to reduce utilization and reimbursement for diagnostic testing services.  Changes in governmental reimbursement may result from statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, administrative rulings, competitive bidding initiatives, and other policy changes.. The U.S. Congress has considered, at least yearly in conjunction with budgetary legislation, changes to one or both of the Medicare fee schedules under which we receive reimbursement, which include the physician fee schedule for anatomical pathology services, and the clinical laboratory fee schedule for our clinical laboratory services. For example, currently there is no copayment or coinsurance required for clinical laboratory services, although there is for our services that are paid under the physician fee schedule.  However, Congress has periodically considered imposing a 20 percent coinsurance on laboratory services.  If enacted, this would require us to attempt to collect this amount from patients, although in many cases the costs of collection would exceed the amount actually received. In April 2015, changes to the physician fee schedule were enacted under the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 (\"MACRA\").. Our reimbursement for our pathology services is paid primarily under the physician fee schedule of Medicare and Medicaid.  Historically, the physician fee schedule was governed by a complex formula, referred to as the Sustainable Growth Rate, or SGR.  However, in April 2015, MACRA was passed, which permanently replaces the SGR formula with a value-based payment system. The passage of MACRA also repealed the 21.1% reduction of the physician fee schedule that was scheduled for April 1, 2015. Under MACRA, the physician fee schedule conversion factor increases of 0.5% from July 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015, and 0.5% in each of years 2016-2019, followed by 0.0% updates for 2020-2025. Subsequent years will vary based on participation in alternative payment models. Beginning in 2019, rates will also be adjusted under the new Merit-based Incentive Payment System.. The Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (\"CMS\") pays laboratories on the basis of a fee schedule that is reviewed and re-calculated on an annual basis.  CMS may change the fee schedule upward or downward on billing codes that we submit for reimbursement on a regular basis.  Our revenue and business may be adversely affected if the reimbursement rates associated with such codes are reduced.  Even when reimbursement rates are not reduced, policy changes add to our costs by increasing the complexity and volume of administrative requirements.  Medicaid reimbursement, which varies by state, is also subject to administrative and billing requirements and budget pressures.  Recently, state budget pressures have caused states to consider several policy changes that may impact our financial condition and results of operations, such as delaying payments, reducing reimbursement, restricting coverage eligibility and service coverage, and imposing taxes on our services.. CMS has changed or discussed making changes to certain types of reimbursement which could affect our rate of reimbursement.  Certain cases are comprised of both a technical component (\"TC\") and a professional component (\"PC\").  In certain specified areas of testing, primarily in the area of anatomic pathology, CMS has determined that some providers have over-utilized these testing procedures and CMS has introduced changes in reimbursement policies to discourage over-utilization.  We are always subject to review by CMS and cannot be certain that CMS won't interpret our practices differently than we do.. Third party payors are increasingly challenging established prices, and new products that are more expensive than existing treatments may have difficulty finding ready acceptance unless there is a clear therapeutic benefit.  On April 1, 2014, the Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014 (\"PAMA\") was enacted into law.  Under PAMA, Medicare payment for clinical diagnostic laboratory tests is established by calculating a weighted mean of private payer rates. On November 17, 2017, CMS released the new clinical laboratory fee schedule which took effect on  January 1, 2018.The new Medicare rates are lower than rates paid in 2017 for many of our  clinical diagnostic laboratory tests.  Even though the permitted annual decrease will be capped through 2023, the cap does not apply to new tests or new advanced diagnostic tests.  We cannot assure you that any of. 48. our products will be considered cost effective, or that reimbursement will be available or sufficient to allow us to sell them competitively and profitably.. The federal government is faced with significant economic decisions in the coming years.  Some solutions being offered in the government could substantially change the way laboratory testing is reimbursed by government entities.  We cannot be certain what or how any such government changes may affect our business.. Medicare legislation and future legislative or regulatory reform of the health care system may affect our ability to sell our products profitably.. In the U.S., there have been a number of legislative and regulatory initiatives, at both the federal and state government levels, to change the healthcare system in ways that, if approved, could affect our ability to sell our products and provide our laboratory services profitably.  As such, we cannot assure you that reimbursement payments under governmental and private third party payor programs will remain at levels comparable to present levels or will be sufficient to cover the costs allocable to patients eligible for reimbursement under these programs.  Any changes that lower reimbursement rates under Medicare, Medicaid or private payor programs could negatively affect our business.. Most significantly, on March 23, 2010, President Obama signed into law both the Affordable Care Act and the reconciliation law known as Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act (the \"Reconciliation Act\") and, combined we refer to both Acts as the \"2010 Health Care Reform Legislation.\"  The constitutionality of the 2010 Health Care Reform Legislation was confirmed on June 28, 2012 by the Supreme Court of the United States. However, as discussed in further detail below, the current Presidential administration has attempted to repeal and replace the 2010 Health Care Reform Legislation.. Beyond coverage and reimbursement changes, the 2010 Health Care Reform Legislation subjects manufacturers of medical devices to an excise tax of 2.3% on certain U.S. sales of medical devices beginning in January 2013. However, a two-year moratorium on the tax was issued on December 18, 2015. The moratorium was extended for an additional two-year period on January 22, 2018. As such, the excise tax does not apply to sales in 2016 through 2019. The return of the tax in January 2020 will likely increase our expense in the future.. Additionally, the 2010 Health Care Reform Legislation included significant fraud and abuse measures, including (i)  required disclosures under the Open Payments Program (which implements the requirements of the Physician Payments Sunshine Act), which in conjunction with its implementing regulations, requires certain manufacturers of certain drugs, biologics, and devices that are reimbursed by Medicare and Medicaid to report annually certain payments or \"transfers of value\" provided to physicians and teaching hospitals and to report annually ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year, (ii) lower thresholds for violations, and (iii) increasing potential penalties for such violations.  Federal funding available for combating health care fraud and abuse generally has increased.  Many of the laws and regulations applicable to our business, particularly those relating to billing and reimbursement of tests and those relating to relationships with physicians, hospitals and patients, contain language that has not been interpreted by courts.  We must rely on our interpretation of these laws and regulations based on the advice of our counsel and regulatory or law enforcement authorities may not agree with our interpretation of these laws and regulations and may seek to enforce legal remedies or penalties against us for violations.  From time to time we may need to change our operations, particularly pricing or billing practices, in response to changing interpretations of these laws and regulations or regulatory or judicial determinations with respect to these laws and regulations.  These occurrences, regardless of their outcome, could damage our reputation and harm important business relationships that we have with healthcare providers, payors and others.  Furthermore, if a regulatory or judicial authority finds that we have not complied with applicable laws and regulations, we could be required to refund amounts that were billed and collected in violation of such laws and regulations.  In addition, we may voluntarily refund amounts that were alleged to have been billed and collected in violation of applicable laws and regulations.  In either case, we could suffer civil and criminal damages, fines and penalties, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs and the loss of licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur liabilities from third-party claims, all of which could harm our operating results and financial condition.  Moreover, regardless of the outcome, if we or physicians or other third parties with whom we do business are investigated by a regulatory or law enforcement authority we could incur substantial costs, including legal fees, and our management may be required to divert a substantial amount of time to an investigation.. Prior to the 2016 U.S. elections (including the current Presidential administration), regulations under the 2010 Health Care Reform Legislation were expected to continue being drafted, released and finalized throughout the next several years.  In 2017, the President and members of  Congress sought to repeal and replace the 2010 Health Care Reform Legislation. It is uncertain whether such repeal and replace legislation will be enacted into law, and if enacted, what the impact might be on our business. It is also uncertain whether regulatory changes to the implementation of the 2010 Health Care Reform Legislation. 49. will restrict patient access to affordable insurance and impact their access to novel, biosimilar and complex generic products. The full effects of any repeal and replacement of the 2010 Health Care Reform Legislation, or regulatory changes to its implementation, cannot be known until a new law is enacted or existing law is implemented through regulations or guidance issued by the CMS and other federal and state health care agencies. Because of the continued uncertainty about the implementation of the 2010 Health Care Reform Legislation, including the potential for further legal challenges or repeal of that legislation, we cannot quantify or predict with any certainty the likely impact of the 2010 Health Care Reform Legislation or its repeal on our business model, prospects, financial condition or results of operations. We also anticipate that Congress, state legislatures, and third-party payors may continue to review and assess alternative healthcare delivery and payment systems and may in the future propose and adopt legislation or policy changes or implementations effecting additional fundamental changes in the healthcare delivery system. In addition, litigation may prevent some or all of the legislation from taking effect. We cannot assure you as to the ultimate content, timing, or effect of changes, nor is it possible at this time to estimate the impact of any such potential legislation.. To enhance compliance with applicable health care laws, and mitigate potential liability in the event of noncompliance, regulatory authorities, such as the United States Health and Human Services Department Office of Inspector General (\"OIG\"), have recommended the adoption and implementation of a comprehensive health care compliance program that generally contains the elements of an effective compliance and ethics program described in Section 8B2.1 of the United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines Manual, and for many years the OIG has made available a model compliance program targeted to the clinical laboratory industry.  In addition, certain states, such as New York, requires that health care providers, such as clinical laboratories, that engage in substantial business under the state Medicaid program have a compliance program that generally adheres to the standards set forth in the Model Compliance Program.  Also, under the 2010 Health Care Reform Legislation, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, requires suppliers, such as the Company, to adopt, as a condition of Medicare participation, compliance programs that meet a core set of requirements.  While we have adopted U.S. healthcare compliance and ethics programs that generally incorporate the OIG's recommendations and train our employees in such compliance, having such a program can be no assurance that we will avoid any compliance issues.. RISKS RELATED TO INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS. Failure to obtain regulatory approval outside the U.S. will prevent us from marketing our products and product candidates abroad.. We intend to market certain of our products and product candidates in non-U.S. markets.  In order to market our products and product candidates in the European Union and many other non-U.S. jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals.  We have had limited interactions with non-U.S. regulatory authorities, the approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval or clearance.  Approval or clearance by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one or more non-U.S. regulatory authority does not ensure approval by other regulatory authorities in other countries or by the FDA.  The non-U.S. regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval or clearance.  We may not obtain non-U.S. regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all.  We may not be able to file for non-U.S. regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products and product candidates in any market, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Non-U.S. governments often impose strict price controls, which may adversely affect our future profitability.. We intend to seek approval to market certain of our products and product candidates in both the U.S. and in non - U.S. jurisdictions.  If we obtain approval in one or more non-U.S. jurisdictions, we will be subject to rules and regulations in those jurisdictions relating to our product.  In some countries, particularly countries of the European Union, each of which has developed its own rules and regulations, pricing is subject to governmental control.  In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a drug or medical device candidate.  To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our product and product candidates to other available products.  If reimbursement of our products and product candidates is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, we may be unable to generate revenues and achieve or sustain profitability, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Potential political, economic and military instability in the State of Israel, where we have office, laboratory and manufacturing operations, may adversely affect our results of operations.. 50. We maintain office, laboratory and manufacturing facilities in the State of Israel.  Political, economic and military conditions in Israel may directly affect our ability to conduct business.  Since the State of Israel was established in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its neighbors.  Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel, could affect adversely our operations.  Ongoing and revived hostilities or other Israeli political or economic factors could harm our operations and product development and cause our revenues to decrease.. Due to the international scope of our business activities, our results of operations may be significantly affected by currency fluctuations.. We derive a significant portion of our consolidated net revenues from international sales, subjecting us to risks relating to fluctuations in currency exchange rates.  Currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the U.S. and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the U.S.  Through our subsidiaries, we operate in a wide variety of jurisdictions.  Certain countries in which we operate or may operate have experienced geopolitical instability, economic problems and other uncertainties from time to time.  To the extent that world events or economic conditions negatively affect our future sales to customers in these and other regions of the world, or the collectability of receivables, our future results of operations, liquidity and financial condition may be adversely affected.  We may manage exposures arising in the normal course of business related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates by entering into offsetting positions through the use of foreign exchange forward contracts.  Certain firmly committed transactions are hedged with foreign exchange forward contracts whereby exchange rates change, gains and losses on the exposed transactions are partially offset by gains and losses related to the hedging contracts.  However, our subsidiaries receive their income and pay their expenses primarily in their local currencies.  To the extent that transactions of these subsidiaries are settled in their local currencies, a devaluation of those currencies versus the U.S. dollar could reduce the contribution from these subsidiaries to our consolidated results of operations as reported in U.S. dollars.  For financial reporting purposes, such depreciation will negatively affect our reported results of operations since earnings denominated in foreign currencies would be converted to U.S. dollars at a decreased value.  While we have employed economic cash flow and fair value hedges to minimize the risks associated with these exchange rate fluctuations, the hedging activities may be ineffective or may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations.  Accordingly, we cannot assure you that fluctuations in the values of the currencies of countries in which we operate will not materially adversely affect our future results of operations.. We may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and any determination that we violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act (\"FCPA\") and other laws that prohibit U.S. companies or their agents and employees from providing anything of value to a foreign official or political party for the purposes of influencing any act or decision of these individuals in their official capacity to help obtain or retain business, direct business to any person or corporate entity or obtain any unfair advantage.  We have operations and agreements with third parties and we generate sales internationally.  Our international activities create the risk of unauthorized and illegal payments or offers of payments by our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors, even though they may not always be subject to our control.  We discourage these practices by our employees and agents.  However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible.  Any failure by us to adopt appropriate compliance procedures and ensure that our employees and agents comply with the FCPA and applicable laws and regulations in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial penalties or restrictions on our ability to conduct business in certain foreign jurisdictions.. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition.  In addition, the U.S. government may seek to hold our Company liable for successor liability FCPA violations committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire.. We are subject to risks associated with doing business globally.. Our operations, both within and outside the U.S., are subject to risks inherent in conducting business globally and under the laws, regulations and customs of various jurisdictions and geographies.  These risks differ in some respects from those associated with our U.S. business and our exposure to such risks may increase if our international business continues to grow. These risks include fluctuations in currency exchange rates, changes in exchange controls, loss of business in government tenders that are held annually in many cases, nationalization, increasingly complex labor environments, expropriation and other governmental actions, changes in taxation, including legislative changes in U.S. and international taxation of income earned outside of the U.S., importation limitations, export control restrictions, violations of U.S. or local laws, including the FCPA,. 51. dependence on a few government entities as customers, pricing restrictions, economic destabilization, political and economic instability, disruption or destruction in a significant geographic region - due to the location of manufacturing facilities, distribution facilities or customers - regardless of cause, including war, terrorism, riot, civil insurrection or social unrest, or natural or man-made disasters, including famine, flood, fire, earthquake, storm or disease.. Our international business is subject to both U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to import-export controls, technology transfer restrictions, repatriation of earnings, data privacy and protection, investment, exchange rates and controls, the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws, the anti-boycott provisions of the U.S. Export Administration Act, labor and employment, works councils and other labor groups, taxes, environment, security restrictions, intellectual property, changes in taxation, including legislative changes in U.S. and international taxation of income earned outside of the U.S., handling of regulated substances, and other commercial activities. Failure by us, our employees, affiliates, partners or others with whom we work to comply with these laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil or criminal liabilities. New regulations and requirements, or changes to existing ones in the various countries in which we operate can significantly increase our costs and risks of doing business internationally. Failure to comply with the laws and regulations that affect our global operations, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Changes in regulations, political leadership and environment, or security risks may dramatically affect our ability to conduct or continue to conduct business in international markets. Our international business may also be impacted by changes in foreign national policies and priorities, which may be influenced by changes in the threat environment, geopolitical uncertainties, government budgets, and economic and political factors more generally, any of which could impact funding for programs or delay purchasing decisions or customer payments. We also could be affected by the legal, regulatory and economic impacts of Britain's exit from the European Union, the impact of which is not known at this time. The occurrence and impact of these factors is difficult to predict, but one or more of them could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows.. RISKS RELATED TO ACQUISITIONS AND INVESTMENTS. Acquisitions, investments and strategic alliances that we have made or may make in the future may use significant resources, result in disruptions to our business or distractions of our management, may not proceed as planned, and could expose us to unforeseen liabilities.  We intend to continue to expand our business through the acquisition of, investments in and strategic alliances with companies, technologies, products and services.  Acquisitions, investments and strategic alliances involve a number of special problems and risks, including, but not limited to:. • difficulty integrating acquired technologies, products, services, operations, and personnel with the existing businesses;. • diversion of management's attention in connection with both negotiating the acquisitions and integrating the businesses;. • strain on managerial and operational resources as management tries to oversee larger operations and investments;. • difficulty implementing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting at businesses that we acquire or invest in, particularly if they are not located near our existing operations;. • exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies or companies in which we invest;. • potential costly and time-consuming litigation, including stockholder lawsuits;. • potential issuance of securities to equity holders of the company being acquired with rights that are superior to the rights of holders of our Common Stock, or which may have a dilutive effect on our stockholders;. • the need to incur additional debt or use cash; and. • the requirement to record potentially significant additional future operating costs for the amortization of intangible assets.. As a result of these or other problems and risks, businesses we acquire or invest in may not produce the revenues, earnings, or business synergies that we anticipated, and acquired products, services, or technologies might not perform as we expected.  As a result, we may incur higher costs and realize lower revenues than we had anticipated.  We may not be able to successfully address these problems and we cannot assure you that the acquisitions or investments will be successfully identified and completed or that, if completed, the acquired businesses, investments, products, services, or technologies will generate sufficient revenue to offset the associated costs or other negative effects on our business.. 52. Any of these risks can be greater if an acquisition or investment is large relative to our size.  Failure to manage effectively our growth through acquisitions could adversely affect our growth prospects, business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the mergers with BioReference, Transition Therapeutics, and other acquisitions.. The success of the mergers will depend on, among other things, our ability to combine our business with that of BioReference and Transition in a manner that facilitates growth opportunities and realizes synergies and cost savings.  We believe that the mergers will provide an opportunity for revenue growth.  However, we must successfully combine our business with that of BioReference and Transition in a manner that permits these benefits to be realized.  In addition, we must achieve the anticipated growth and cost savings without adversely affecting current revenues and investments in future growth.  If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the mergers may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected.. The failure to integrate successfully the business and operations of BioReference in the expected time frame may adversely affect our future results.. Historically, we and BioReference have operated as independent companies.  There can be no assurances that our and BioReference's businesses can be integrated successfully.  It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of our or BioReference's key employees, the loss of customers, the disruption of either company's or both companies' ongoing businesses or in unexpected integration issues, higher than expected integration costs and an overall post-completion integration process that takes longer than originally anticipated.  Specifically, the following issues, among others, must be addressed in integrating our operations with BioReference's operations in order to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger so we perform as expected:. • combining the companies' operations and corporate functions, as well as obtaining anticipated synergies;. • combining our business with BioReference's business and meeting the capital requirements of the combined company, in a manner that permits us to achieve the cost savings or revenue synergies anticipated to result from the merger, the failure of which would result in the anticipated benefits of the merger not being realized in the time frame currently anticipated or at all;. • integrating the companies' technologies;. • integrating and unifying the offerings and services available to customers;. • identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming functions and assets;. • harmonizing and/or addressing differences in the companies' operating practices, employee development and compensation programs, internal controls and other policies, procedures and processes;. • maintaining existing agreements with customers, distributors, providers and vendors and avoiding delays in entering into new agreements with prospective customers, distributors, providers and vendors;. • addressing possible differences in business backgrounds, corporate cultures and management philosophies;. • consolidating the companies' administrative and information technology infrastructure;. • coordinating distribution and marketing efforts;. • managing the movement of certain positions to different locations;. • coordinating geographically dispersed organizations; and. • effecting actions that may be required in connection with obtaining regulatory approvals.. In addition, at times the attention of our management and resources may be focused on the integration of the businesses of the two companies and diverted from day-to-day business operations, which may disrupt our ongoing business.. Funding may not be available for us to continue to make acquisitions, investments and strategic alliances in order to grow our business.. We have made and anticipate that we may continue to make acquisitions, investments and strategic alliances with complementary businesses, technologies, products and services to expand our business.  Our growth plans rely, in part, on the successful completion of future acquisitions.  At any particular time, we may need to raise substantial additional capital or to issue additional equity to finance such acquisitions, investments, and strategic alliances.  There is no assurance that we will be. 53. able to secure additional funding on acceptable terms, or at all, or obtain the stockholder approvals necessary to issue additional equity to finance such acquisitions, investments, and strategic alliances.  If we are unsuccessful in obtaining the financing, our business would be adversely impacted.. We have a large amount of goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of acquisitions and a significant write-down of goodwill and/or other intangible assets would have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations and net worth.. We have a large amount of goodwill and other intangible assets and we are required to perform an annual, or in certain situations a more frequent, assessment for possible impairment for accounting purposes.  At December 31, 2017, we have goodwill and other intangible assets of $2.0 billion, or approximately 79% of our total assets.  If we do not achieve our planned operating results, we may be required to incur a non-cash impairment charge.  Any impairment charges in the future will adversely affect our results of operations.  A significant write down of goodwill and/or other intangible assets would have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations and net worth.. RISKS RELATED TO OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK. The market price of our Common Stock may fluctuate significantly.. The market price of our Common Stock may fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as:. • the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors;. • results of our clinical trials and other development efforts;. • developments concerning intellectual property rights and regulatory approvals;. • variations in our and our competitors' results of operations;. • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if our Common Stock is covered by analysts;. • developments in the biotechnology, pharmaceutical, diagnostic, and medical device industry;. • the results of product liability or intellectual property lawsuits;. • future issuances of our Common Stock or other securities, including debt;. • purchases and sales of our Common Stock by our officers, directors or affiliates;. • the addition or departure of key personnel;. • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, investments, or strategic alliances; and. • general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance.. Further, the stock market in general, and the market for biotechnology, pharmaceutical, diagnostic, and medical device companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years.  Continued market fluctuations could result in extreme volatility in the price of our Common Stock, which could cause a decline in the value of our Common Stock.. Directors, executive officers, principal stockholders and affiliated entities own a substantial amount of our capital stock, and they may make decisions that you do not consider to be in the best interests of our stockholders.. As of February 26, 2018, our directors, executive officers, principal stockholders, and affiliated entities beneficially owned, in the aggregate 41.13% of our outstanding voting securities.  Frost Gamma Investments Trust (\"Gamma Trust\"), of which Phillip Frost, M.D., the Company's Chairman and CEO, is the sole trustee, is deemed to beneficially own in the aggregate approximately 32.95% of our Common Stock as of February 27, 2018.  As a result, Dr. Frost acting with other members of management, would have the ability to significantly impact the election of our Board of Directors, the adoption or amendment of provisions in the Company's Certificate of Incorporation, the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions, and the outcome of issues requiring approval by our stockholders.  This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company that may be favored by other stockholders.  This could prevent transactions in which stockholders might otherwise recover a premium for their shares over current market prices.. A significant short position in our stock could have a substantial impact on the trading price of our stock.. 54. Historically, there has been a significant \"short\" position in our common stock.  As of February 15, 2018, investors held a short position of approximately 57,503,433 million shares of our common stock which represented approximately 10.3% of our outstanding common stock.  The anticipated downward pressure on our stock price due to actual or anticipated sales of our stock by some institutions or individuals who engage in short sales of our common stock could cause our stock price to decline.  Such stock price decrease could encourage further short-sales that could place additional downward pressure on our stock price.  This could lead to further increases in the already large short position in our common stock and cause volatility in our stock price.. The volatility of our stock may cause the value of a stockholder's investment to decline rapidly.  Additionally, if our stock price declines, it may be more difficult for us to raise capital and may have other adverse effects on our business.. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, including with respect to companies we acquire, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.  In addition, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could have a material adverse effect on the price of our Common Stock.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of year end.  We are required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute material weaknesses or changes in internal control that, or that are reasonably likely to, materially affect internal control over financial reporting.  A \"material weakness\" is a significant deficiency or combination of significant deficiencies that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected.. We have identified and remediated control deficiencies in the past, and we cannot assure you that we will at all times in the future be able to report that our internal controls are effective.  In addition, material weaknesses in the design and operation of the internal control over financial reporting of companies that we acquire could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.  Our acquisition of BioReference and Transition Therapeutics and possible future acquisitions may increase this risk by expanding the scope and nature of operations over which we must develop and maintain internal control over financial reporting.  If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our results of operation could be harmed.  Our failure to maintain the effective internal control over financial reporting could cause the cost related to remediation to increase and could cause our stock price to decline.  In addition, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, may be subject to regulatory sanction, and investors may lose confidence in our financial statements.. Compliance with changing regulations concerning corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses.. There have been changing laws, regulations, and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Act, regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and rules promulgated by the NYSE and the other national securities exchanges.  These new or changed laws, regulations, and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices.  As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations, and standards are likely to continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities.  Our board members, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and Principal Accounting Officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties.  As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business.  If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations, and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies, we could be subject to liability under applicable laws or our reputation may be harmed, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition."
