[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Before deciding to invest in our common stock, you should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, together with general economic and business risks and all of the other information contained in this 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the. 39. Table of Contents. related notes and the section titled \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\" If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be harmed. In that event, the price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. This 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of specific factors, including the risks described below. See \"Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.\". Risks Related to Our Financial Position and Capital Resources. We have incurred significant losses since our inception and anticipate that we will incur continued losses in the future.. We are a specialty pharmaceutical company with a limited operating history. To date, we have focused primarily on developing XHANCE as well as other product candidates using our proprietary Breath Powered exhalation delivery system, or EDS, technology. Since inception, we have incurred significant net losses and expect to continue to incur net losses for the foreseeable future. To date, we have generated revenue primarily from our license agreement, or the AVP-825 License Agreement, with Avanir Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Avanir, pursuant to which we granted them the exclusive right to further develop and commercialize AVP-825 for the acute treatment of migraines in adults. We had net income of $22.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 due primarily to the achievement of a milestone under the AVP-825 License Agreement. However, we incurred net losses of $48.9 million and $28.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2015, respectively. We incurred net losses in all other prior periods. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $211.3 million.. We expect to incur losses for the foreseeable future, and we expect these losses to increase as we:. <U+25AA> begin to commercialize XHANCE and further scale up external manufacturing and distribution capabilities to commercialize XHANCE or any other product candidate for which we may obtain regulatory approval;. <U+25AA> adapt our regulatory compliance efforts to incorporate requirements applicable to marketed drugs;. <U+25AA> continue clinical development activities for XHANCE, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, mandated pediatric studies, and seek regulatory approval for XHANCE for a follow-on indication for the treatment of chronic sinusitis;. <U+25AA> seek to discover and develop, in-license or acquire additional products, product candidates and technology;. <U+25AA> maintain, expand and protect our intellectual property portfolio;. <U+25AA> hire additional commercial, clinical, manufacturing and scientific personnel;. <U+25AA> add operational, financial and management information systems and personnel, including personnel to support commercialization efforts; and. <U+25AA> incur additional legal, accounting and other expenses in operating as a public company.. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with drug development and commercialization, we are unable to accurately predict the timing or amount of expenses or when, or if, we will be able to achieve profitability. If we are required by regulatory authorities to perform studies in addition to those expected, or if there are any delays in the initiation and completion of our clinical trials or the development of any of our product candidates, our expenses could increase.. We may never achieve or maintain profitability.. Our ability to become and remain profitable will depend on our ability to generate revenue. Although we may be entitled to future milestone payments and royalties under the AVP-825 License Agreement, to date we have not commercialized any of our other product candidates and will therefore depend upon our ability to successfully commercialize XHANCE and any of our other product candidates or any other product candidates that we may in-license or acquire in the future. We do not know when XHANCE or any of our other product candidates, if approved, will generate revenue for us, if at all. Our ability to generate revenue from our current or future products and product candidates will depend on a number of factors, including:. <U+25AA> our ability to successfully commercialize XHANCE for the treatment of nasal polyps;. 40. Table of Contents. <U+25AA> our ability to successfully complete required clinical trials and submit a supplemental new drug application to the FDA and obtain regulatory approval for XHANCE for the treatment of chronic sinusitis;. <U+25AA> our ability to complete and submit applications to, and obtain regulatory approval from, foreign regulatory authorities, if we choose to commercialize XHANCE outside the United States;. <U+25AA> the size of the markets in the territories for which we gain regulatory approval;. <U+25AA> the performance of our contract sales organization in marketing and promoting XHANCE;. <U+25AA> our ability to develop a commercial organization capable of sales, marketing and distribution for XHANCE and any of our other product candidates for which we may obtain marketing approval;. <U+25AA> our ability to maintain commercially reasonable agreements with wholesalers, distributors and other third parties in our supply chain;. <U+25AA> our success in establishing a commercially viable price for our products;. <U+25AA> our success in defending against potential generic competition and other developments in our market generally;. <U+25AA> our ability to manufacture commercial quantities of our products at acceptable cost levels;. <U+25AA> our ability to obtain coverage and adequate reimbursement from third parties, including government payors; and. <U+25AA> our ability to successfully complete development activities, including the necessary clinical trials, with respect to our other product candidates.. XHANCE, as well as any of our other product candidates, if approved for commercial sale, may not gain market acceptance or achieve commercial success. If our addressable market is not as significant as we estimate or the treatment population is narrowed by competition, physician choice or clinical practice guidelines, we may not generate significant revenue from sales of XHANCE. In addition, we would anticipate incurring significant costs associated with commercializing any approved product. We may not achieve profitability soon after generating product sales, if ever. If we are unable to generate product revenues, we will not become profitable and may be unable to continue operations without continued funding.. Even if we achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our failure to become and remain profitable would depress the value of our company and could impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business, maintain our development efforts, obtain drug approvals, diversify our offerings or continue our operations. A decline in the value of our company could also cause you to lose all or part of your investment.. We will likely require additional capital to fund our operations and, if we fail to obtain necessary financing, we may be unable to complete the commercialization of XHANCE and the development of our other product candidates.. Our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash. To date, we have financed our operations primarily through the sale and issuance of common and preferred stock, debt, licensing revenues under the AVP-825 License Agreement and research grants. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to commercialize XHANCE and to advance the clinical development of XHANCE for the treatment of chronic sinusitis and our other product candidates. As of December 31, 2017, we had cash and cash equivalents of $234.9 million. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to fund our operations and debt service obligations through the end of 2019. During this period, we expect to launch XHANCE in the United States, continue our clinical development plans to seek approval for XHANCE for the treatment of chronic sinusitis and continue our early-stage development efforts with respect to our other product candidates. Our estimate of the period of time through which our financial resources will be adequate to support our operations is based on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could deplete our available capital resources sooner than we currently expect.. Our future funding requirements, both near and long-term, will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to:. • the success of our commercialization of XHANCE for the treatment of nasal polyps including, among other things, patient and physician acceptance of XHANCE and our ability to obtain adequate coverage and  reimbursement for XHANCE;. 41. Table of Contents. <U+25AA> the cost and timing of commercialization activities for XHANCE, including product manufacturing, marketing, sales and distribution;. <U+25AA> revenue received from commercial sales of XHANCE;. <U+25AA> our clinical development plans for XHANCE, including FDA-mandated pediatric studies and clinical trials for the follow-on indication for the treatment of chronic sinusitis;. <U+25AA> the outcome, timing and cost of the regulatory approval process of XHANCE for chronic sinusitis by the FDA, including the potential for the FDA to require that we perform more studies and clinical trials than those that we currently expect;. <U+25AA> the costs involved in preparing, filing and prosecuting patent applications, maintaining and enforcing our intellectual property rights, and;. <U+25AA> the cost of defending intellectual property disputes, including patent infringement actions brought by third parties against us;. <U+25AA> potential future licensing revenue from the AVP-825 License Agreement;. <U+25AA> fluctuations in the three-month LIBOR-based floating interest rate of our senior secured notes;. <U+25AA> the initiation, progress, timing, costs and results of clinical trials for our other product candidates; and. <U+25AA> the extent to which we in-license or acquire other products, product candidates or technologies.. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available when needed on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital in sufficient amounts, when required or on acceptable terms, we also could be required to:. <U+25AA> seek strategic collaborations to assist in the commercialization of XHANCE in the United States and other markets;. <U+25AA> significantly delay, scale back or discontinue the development of XHANCE for the treatment of chronic sinusitis;. <U+25AA> relinquish or license on unfavorable terms our rights to an Optinose EDS technology or other product candidates that we otherwise would seek to develop or commercialize ourselves;. <U+25AA> delay, limit, reduce or terminate the drug development of our current or future product candidates, or seek collaborators for one or more of our current or future product candidates at an earlier stage than otherwise would be desirable or on terms that are less favorable than might otherwise be available; or. <U+25AA> significantly curtail our operations.. Although we have the ability to obtain an additional $25 million through the issuance of additional senior secured notes pursuant to the Note Purchase Agreement, the availability of this $25 million is subject to certain conditions that we may not be able to meet.. Our failure to comply with the covenants or other terms of the Note Purchase Agreement, including as a result of events beyond our control, could result in a default under the Note Purchase Agreement that could materially and adversely affect the ongoing viability of our business.. On December 29, 2017, we entered into a Note Purchase Agreement with Athyrium Opportunities III Acquisition LP, as collateral agent, or the Collateral Agent, and the purchasers party thereto, or the Purchasers, that provides for the issuance of up to $100 million of senior secured notes, or the Notes. $75 million of the Notes were issued on December 29, 2017, of which $50 million were issued by OptiNose AS and $25 million were issued by OptiNose US, Inc., or the Issuers. The remaining $25 million of Notes, or the Delayed Draw Notes, may be issued by OptiNose US, Inc. and sold to the Purchasers between April 1, 2019 and August 14, 2019, subject to us and our consolidated subsidiaries achieving trailing four quarter net revenues (as calculated pursuant to the terms of the Note Purchase Agreement) of $15 million, a pro forma ratio of total debt to trailing four quarter net revenues not exceeding 6.50 to 1.00 and other specified conditions.. The unpaid principal amount under the Notes is due and payable on June 29, 2023, or the Maturity Date. The proceeds of the Notes will be used to provide ongoing working capital to support the launch and commercialization. 42. Table of Contents. of XHANCE, as well as for general corporate purposes.  The Notes bear interest at a per annum rate of three-month LIBOR rate (subject to a 1.0% floor) plus 9.0%. The interest rate was 10.75% at December 31, 2017. The Issuers are required to make quarterly interest-only payments until the Maturity Date. In addition, the Issuers paid an upfront fee of 1% of the aggregate commitment amount of the Notes on December 29, 2017. We are also required to pay an exit fee of 2% of any principal payments (whether mandatory, voluntary or at maturity) made throughout the term of the Note Purchase Agreement.. In addition, each Note holder may elect to accelerate the repayment of all unpaid principal and accrued interest under such holder's Note upon consummation of a specified change of control transaction or occurrence of certain events of default (as specified in the Note Purchase Agreement), including, among other things:. • our default in a payment obligation under the Notes;. • our breach of the restrictive covenants or other terms of the Notes;. • our breach of reporting obligations;. • our failure to properly maintain the collateral; and. • certain specified insolvency and bankruptcy-related events.. Subject to any applicable cure period set forth in the Notes, all amounts outstanding with respect to the Notes (principal and accrued interest) would become due and payable immediately upon an event of default. Our assets or cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay our obligations under the Notes if the obligations thereunder are accelerated upon any events of default. Further, if we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our obligations under the Notes, the holders of such Notes could proceed to protect and enforce their rights under the Notes by exercising such remedies as are available to the holders thereunder and in respect thereof under applicable law, either by suit in equity or by action at law, or both, whether for specific performance of any covenant or other agreement contained in the Notes or in aid of the exercise of any power granted in the Notes. The foregoing would materially and adversely affect the ongoing viability of our business.. Our Note Purchase Agreement contains restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business.. The Note Purchase Agreement contains various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions without our lenders' prior consent. These covenants limit our ability to, among other things:. • sell, transfer, lease or dispose of our assets;. • create, incur or assume additional indebtedness;. • encumber or permit liens on certain of our assets;. • make restricted payments, including paying dividends on, repurchasing or making distributions with respect to our common stock;. • make specified investments (including loans and advances);. • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets;. • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates;. • grant certain license rights related to our products, technology and other intellectual property rights; and. • permit our cash and cash equivalents held in certain deposit accounts to be less than $10,000,000 at any time.. The covenants in our Note Purchase Agreement and related security agreements may limit our ability to take certain actions that may be in our long-term best interests.  In the event that we breach one or more covenants, our lenders may choose to declare an event of default and require that we immediately repay all amounts outstanding, plus penalties and interest, terminate their commitments to extend further credit and foreclose on the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness. Such repayment could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. 43. Table of Contents. Provisions of the Notes for certain potential payments to the holders of such Notes that could impede a sale of the Company.. Subject to certain exceptions, the Issuers are required to make mandatory prepayments of the Notes, with the proceeds of assets sales, extraordinary receipts and prohibited debt issuances, and upon the occurrence of a change of control. In addition, the Issuers may make voluntary prepayments of the Notes, in whole or in part. All mandatory and voluntary prepayments of the Notes are subject to the payment of prepayment premiums as follows: (i) if prepayment occurs prior to the second anniversary of the applicable date of issuance, an amount equal to the amount by which (a) the present value of 102% of the principal prepaid plus all interest that would have accrued on such principal through such second anniversary exceeds (b) the amount of principal prepaid, (ii) if prepayment occurs on or after the second anniversary of the applicable date of issuance but prior to the third anniversary of such issuance, an amount equal to 2% of the principal prepaid, and (iii) if prepayment occurs on or after the third anniversary of the applicable date of issuance but prior to the fourth anniversary of such issuance, an amount equal to 1% of the principal prepaid. No prepayment premium is due on any principal prepaid after the fourth anniversary of the applicable date of issuance of any Notes.  These provisions may make it more costly for a potential acquirer to engage in a business combination transaction with us. Provisions that have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock.. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights to our technologies or product candidates.. We do not have any committed external source of funds other than potential milestone payments and royalties under the AVP-825 License Agreement and the additional $25 million that may become available under the Note Purchase Agreement between April 1, 2019 and August 14, 2019, subject to us and our consolidated subsidiaries achieving trailing four quarter net revenues (as calculated pursuant to the terms of the Note Purchase Agreement) of $15 million, a pro forma ratio of total debt to trailing four quarter net revenues not exceeding 6.50 to 1.00 and other specified conditions.  Until such time, if ever, as we can generate substantial revenue, we may seek additional capital through a combination of private and public equity offerings, debt financings, collaborations, strategic alliances and licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, your ownership interest will be diluted, and the terms may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect your rights as a stockholder. Debt financings may be coupled with an equity component, such as warrants to purchase shares, which could also result in dilution of our existing stockholders' ownership. The incurrence of additional indebtedness would result in increased fixed payment obligations and could also result in certain restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional debt, limitations on our ability to acquire or license intellectual property rights and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business and may result in liens being placed on our assets and intellectual property. If we were to default on such indebtedness, we could lose such assets and intellectual property.. If we raise additional funds through collaborations, or strategic alliance, marketing, distribution or licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies, product candidates or future revenue streams or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes may be limited.. As of December 31, 2017, we had U.S. net operating loss, or NOL, carryforwards of approximately $30.3 million available to offset future U.S. taxable income and U.S. research and development (R&D) tax credits of $2.4 million.  These amounts are potentially subject to annual utilization limits under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Our U.S. NOL carryforwards will begin to expire in 2030 if not utilized.  In addition, we have total foreign NOL carryforwards of $96.6 million as of December 31, 2017 in our Norwegian and United Kingdom subsidiaries. These foreign NOL carryforwards do not expire but can only be used to offset profits generated in Norway or the United Kingdom, respectively.. Our U.S. NOL and tax credit carryforwards could expire unused and be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities because of their limited duration or because of restrictions under U.S. tax law. Under Sections 382 and 383, if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change\", generally defined as a greater than 50% change, by value, in equity ownership during a three-year period, the corporation's ability to offset pre-change tax attributes, such as NOLs and R&D tax credits, against post-change income or tax may be limited. We have not performed an analysis under Section 382 and cannot predict or otherwise determine whether our federal tax attribute carryforwards may be limited. As a result, if we have taxable income in the future, our ability to use existing U.S. NOL and R&D tax. 44. Table of Contents. credit carryforwards to reduce U.S. taxable income or tax liability may be subject to limitation. This could result in increased future tax liabilities. Similar rules at the state level may also limit our ability to use state NOLs. Also, there may be periods when the use of NOLs is suspended or otherwise limited at the state level, which could accelerate or permanently increase state taxes owed.. We may have ownership changes in the future due to further changes in our stock ownership. Some of these ownership changes could be outside of our control. If an ownership change occurs and our ability to use our historical net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards is limited, it could adversely impact our future operating results by increasing our tax obligations.. Foreign exchange risks and controls may affect our financial position and results of operations.. Through the operation of our subsidiaries based in the United Kingdom and Norway, we are exposed to foreign currency fluctuations and exchange rate risks. In addition to the operations of our foreign subsidiaries, we also contract with vendors that are located outside the United States, and in some cases make payment of invoices denominated in foreign currencies. We are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency rates in connection with these arrangements and we do not currently hedge our foreign currency exchange rate risk. In addition, because we maintain our consolidated financial statements in U.S. dollars, our financial results are vulnerable to fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies, such as the British pound sterling, the euro, and the Norwegian krone. In preparing our consolidated financial statements, we must convert all non-U.S. dollar results to U.S. dollars, which impacts our results of operations, is reflected as a component of our stockholder's equity (deficit), and may be credited or charged to operations and reflected in other income (expense), net. The impact of changes in exchange rates has not been significant historically. However, changes in exchange rates could cause significant changes in our financial position and results of operations in the future.. Risks Related to Commercialization of XHANCE. We have no history of commercializing drugs, which may make it difficult for you to evaluate the success of our business to date and to assess our future viability.. Although our predecessor and subsidiary OptiNose AS commenced operations in 2000, our operations to date have been largely focused on raising capital and developing AVP-825 and XHANCE, including undertaking preclinical studies and conducting clinical trials. While we conducted the pre-approval stages of clinical development for AVP-825, Avanir was responsible for completing the clinical development of, obtaining regulatory approval for, and initiating the commercial launch of that product under our license agreement with them. To date, we have manufactured the initial commercial supply for the launch of XHANCE but we have not yet demonstrated our ability to successfully manufacture for on-going commercial scale or, with the exception of AVP-825, arrange for a third party to do so on our behalf, or conduct sales, marketing and distribution activities necessary for successful product commercialization. Consequently, any predictions about our future success or viability may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a longer history of successfully developing and commercializing drugs.. If we are unable to successfully commercialize XHANCE, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected and the price of our common stock may decline.. Our ability to successfully commercialize XHANCE depends on many factors, including:. <U+25AA> our ability to manufacture commercial quantities of XHANCE at a reasonable cost and with sufficient speed to meet commercial demand;. <U+25AA> our ability to manage our third-party sales organization to market, promote and sell XHANCE;. <U+25AA> our success in educating physicians, patients and caregivers about the benefits, administration and use of XHANCE;. <U+25AA> the availability, perceived advantages, relative cost, relative safety and relative efficacy of competing products;. <U+25AA> the availability of coverage and adequate reimbursement for XHANCE;. <U+25AA> our ability to contract with wholesalers and/or specialty pharmaceutical distributors on acceptable terms;. <U+25AA> the effectiveness of our marketing campaigns;. <U+25AA> our effective use of promotional resources;. 45. Table of Contents. <U+25AA> a continued acceptable safety profile for XHANCE;. <U+25AA> our ability to obtain and maintain appropriate state licenses in the states in which we intend to sell XHANCE; and. <U+25AA> our ability to successfully defend any challenges to our intellectual property relating to XHANCE.. Many of these matters are beyond our control and are subject to other risks described elsewhere in this \"Risk Factors\" section. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully commercialize or generate revenue from XHANCE. If we cannot do so, or are significantly delayed in doing so, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected and the price of our common stock may decline.. The commercial success of XHANCE will depend upon its acceptance by multiple stakeholders, including physicians, patients and healthcare payors.. Physicians may not prescribe XHANCE, in which case we would not generate the revenues we anticipate. The degree of market acceptance of XHANCE will depend on a number of factors, including:. <U+25AA> demonstration of clinical safety and efficacy;. <U+25AA> relative convenience and ease of administration;. <U+25AA> pricing and cost-effectiveness;. <U+25AA> availability of alternative treatments and perceived advantages over such alternative treatments;. <U+25AA> the clinical indications for which XHANCE is approved;. <U+25AA> the prevalence and severity of any AEs;. <U+25AA> restrictions placed on XHANCE in connection with its approval;. <U+25AA> limitations or warnings contained in the FDA-approved label for XHANCE;. <U+25AA> the effectiveness of our or any future collaborators' sales and marketing strategies;. <U+25AA> consolidation among healthcare providers, which increases the impact of the loss of any relationship;. <U+25AA> our ability to obtain and maintain sufficient third-party coverage and adequate reimbursement; and. <U+25AA> the willingness of patients to pay out-of-pocket in the absence of third-party coverage.. If XHANCE does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, patients and healthcare payors, we may not generate sufficient revenue in order to become or remain profitable.. If third-party payors do not reimburse patients for XHANCE or if reimbursement levels are set too low for us to sell XHANCE at a profit, our ability to successfully commercialize XHANCE and our results of operations will be harmed.. Our ability to commercialize XHANCE successfully will depend in part on the extent to which coverage and adequate reimbursement for XHANCE will be available in a timely manner from third-party payors, including governmental healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, commercial health insurers and managed care organizations. Government authorities and other third-party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, determine which medications they will cover and establish reimbursement levels. Reimbursement decisions by particular third-party payors depend upon a number of factors, including each third-party payor's determination that use of a product is:. <U+25AA> a covered benefit under its health plan;. <U+25AA> appropriate and medically necessary for the specific condition or disease;. <U+25AA> cost effective; and. <U+25AA> neither experimental nor investigational.. 46. Table of Contents. Obtaining coverage and reimbursement approval for XHANCE from government authorities or other third-party payors may be a time consuming and costly process that could require us to provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost-effectiveness data, including expensive pharmacoeconomic studies beyond the data required to obtain marketing approval, for the use of XHANCE to each government authority or other third-party payor. We may not be able to provide data sufficient to gain acceptance with respect to coverage and reimbursement from government authorities or other third-party payors.. Third-party payors may deny reimbursement for covered products if they determine that a medical product was not used in accordance with cost-effective diagnosis methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for an unapproved indication. Third-party payors also may refuse to reimburse for procedures and devices deemed to be experimental. Third-party payors may also limit coverage to specific products on an approved list, or formulary, which might not include all of the FDA-approved products for a particular indication.. Third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services. The process for determining whether a payor will provide coverage for a product may be separate from the process for setting the price or reimbursement rate that the payor will pay for the product once coverage is approved. Levels of reimbursement may also decrease in the future, and future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third-party payors may adversely affect the demand for and reimbursement available for XHANCE, which in turn, could negatively impact pricing.  Further, payors, including healthcare insurers, pharmacy benefit managers and group purchasing organizations, increasingly seek ways to reduce their costs. Many payors continue to adopt benefit plan changes that shift a greater portion of prescription costs to patients. Such measures include more limited benefit plan designs, higher patient co-pay or co-insurance obligations and limitations on patients' use of commercial manufacturer co-pay payment assistance programs (including through co-pay accumulator adjustment or maximization programs). Payors also increasingly seek price discounts or rebates in connection with the placement of our products on their formularies or those they manage. Payors may also control costs by imposing restrictions on access to or usage of our products, such as by requiring prior authorizations or \"step-edits,\" and may choose to exclude certain indications for which our products are approved or even choose to exclude coverage entirely. For example, insurers may establish a step-edit system that requires a patient to first use a lower price alternative product prior to becoming eligible for reimbursement of a higher price product. Some providers may not complete the burdensome administrative process required to demonstrate or document that the patients for whom XHANCE has been prescribed meet the payors' utilization management criteria (i.e., prior authorizations or step-edits) and, as a result, patients will not gain access to XHANCE treatment. Further, other patients may obtain coverage for XHANCE but abandon their prescriptions rather than pay their co-pay payment which would result in a significant shortfall in achieving revenue expectations and negatively impact our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. Significant consolidation in the health insurance industry has resulted in a few large insurers and pharmacy benefit managers exerting greater pressure in pricing and usage negotiations with drug manufacturers, significantly increasing discounts and rebates required of manufacturers and limiting patient access and usage. Further consolidation among insurers, pharmacy benefit managers and other payors, including through integrated delivery systems, would increase the negotiating leverage such entities have over us and other drug manufacturers. Ultimately, further discounts, rebates, coverage or plan changes, restrictions or exclusions as described above could have a material adverse effect on sales of our affected products.. If we are unable to differentiate XHANCE from current and future products or existing methods of treatments, our ability to successfully commercialize XHANCE would be adversely affected.. We initially intend to commercialize XHANCE for the treatment of nasal polyps and seek FDA approval for a follow-on indication of XHANCE for the treatment of chronic sinusitis. Currently, Nasonex, marketed by Merck, is the only other branded drug therapy approved by the FDA for the treatment of nasal polyps. A generic version of Nasonex, mometasone furoate monohydrate, was approved by the FDA for, among other indications, the treatment of nasal polyps and launched in 2016. In addition, Beconase AQ, which is an INS marketed by GlaxoSmithKline, is indicated for the prophylaxis of nasal polyps after surgical resection. We are not aware of any product approved for the treatment of chronic sinusitis. In addition to competition from Nasonex and Beconase AQ, we will also need to differentiate XHANCE from other products and treatments identified in current clinical practice guidelines for the treatment of chronic rhinosinusitis with and without nasal polyps. Such products and treatments include the use of nasal rinses, decongestants, over-the-counter and INS products, oral steroids, antibiotics, and sinus surgery and other procedures, including functional endoscopic sinus surgery, balloon sinus dilation and steroid-releasing sinus implants. In addition, several biologic monoclonal antibodies are in clinical development for the treatment of nasal polyps, including omalizumab, reslizumab, mepolizumab and dupilumab. If we are unable to achieve significant. 47. Table of Contents. differentiation for XHANCE against these other products and treatments, including on the basis of efficacy, safety and tolerability profile, reliability, convenience of administration, price and reimbursement, the opportunity for XHANCE to be commercialized successfully would be adversely affected.. If the market opportunities for XHANCE are smaller than we believe, our revenue may be adversely affected, and our business may suffer.. Our initial target market for XHANCE will consist of ENT physicians, allergists and high-decile INS-prescribing primary care physicians that we believe treat an estimated 3.5 million U.S. patients with chronic rhinosinusitis, an estimated 1.2 million of whom have chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps. If we are able to obtain a follow-on indication of XHANCE for the treatment of chronic sinusitis, we intend to broaden our reach and target primary care physicians that we believe treat an additional estimated 6.25 million patients with chronic rhinosinusitis, an estimated one-third of whom have chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps.. Our projections of both the number of people who suffer from chronic rhinosinusitis with and without nasal polyps, as well as the subset of people with these diseases who have the potential to benefit from the use of XHANCE, are based on our beliefs and estimates. These estimates have been derived from a variety of sources, including scientific literature, surveys we commissioned, prescription data or other market research and may prove to be incorrect. Further, new studies may change the estimated incidence or prevalence of chronic rhinosinusitis or nasal polyps. The number of patients may turn out to be lower than expected. Additionally, the potentially addressable patient population for XHANCE may be limited or may not be amenable to treatment with XHANCE, and new patients may become increasingly difficult to identify or gain access to, which would adversely affect our results of operations and our business.. Clinical practice guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations could have significant influence on the use of XHANCE.. Government agencies may promulgate clinical practice guidelines directly applicable to XHANCE. In addition, professional societies, practice management groups, private health and science foundations and organizations involved in various diseases from time to time may also publish guidelines or recommendations to the healthcare and patient communities. Recommendations of government agencies or these other groups or organizations may relate to such matters as usage, dosage, route of administration and use of concomitant therapies. Recommendations or guidelines suggesting the reduced use of XHANCE or the use of competitive or alternative products as the standard of care to be followed by patients and healthcare providers could result in decreased use of XHANCE.. If we are unable to maintain agreements with third parties to market and sell XHANCE we may be unable to generate any revenue for XHANCE.. We currently have limited sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. We have contracted to use an outsourced contract sales organization, or CSO, to promote XHANCE to our defined specialty audience of ENT and allergy specialists and high-decile INS-prescribing primary care physicians. Our CSO may not dedicate sufficient resources to the commercialization of XHANCE or may otherwise fail in its commercialization due to factors beyond our control. Additionally, our CSO may fail to comply with applicable legal or regulatory requirements, or may enter into agreements with other parties that have products and services that could compete with XHANCE.. In the event that we fail to successfully launch and commercialize XHANCE through our CSO, we may also enter into a strategic collaboration with a third party. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate strategic collaborators, and these strategic collaborations can be intricate and time-consuming to negotiate and document. We may not be able to negotiate strategic collaborations on acceptable terms, or at all. We are unable to predict when, if ever, we will enter into any strategic collaborations because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with establishing strategic partnerships.. XHANCE may become associated with undesirable adverse reactions or have other properties that could result in significant negative consequences following regulatory approval.. If we or others identify adverse events, or AEs, associated with XHANCE, a number of potentially significant negative consequences could result, including:. <U+25AA> we may be forced to suspend marketing of XHANCE;. <U+25AA> the FDA may withdraw its approval of XHANCE or impose restrictions on its distribution;. 48. Table of Contents. <U+25AA> the FDA may require additional warnings or contradictions in the label that could diminish the usage or otherwise limit the commercial success of XHANCE;. <U+25AA> we may be required to conduct additional post-marketing studies;. <U+25AA> we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients; and. <U+25AA> our reputation may suffer.. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of XHANCE.. If the FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities approve generic or similar products that compete with XHANCE, or if the FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities change or create new pathways that may expedite approval of such products, it could decrease our expected sales of XHANCE.. Once an NDA, including a Section 505(b)(2) application, is approved, the product covered thereby becomes a \"listed drug\" which can, in turn, be cited by potential competitors in support of approval of an abbreviated NDA, or ANDA. The FD&C Act, FDA regulations and other applicable regulations and policies provide incentives to manufacturers to create modified, non-infringing versions of a drug to facilitate the approval of an ANDA for generic substitutes. Manufacturers may be able to bring a generic product to market in a much more cost-efficient pathway than we currently anticipate. If the costs involved in bringing such a product to market are significantly less than our costs with respect to the development of XHANCE, companies that produce generic equivalents to XHANCE may be able to offer their products at lower prices. Further, if the timeline for bringing such a product to market is expedited, companies that produce generic equivalents to XHANCE may compete with XHANCE faster than we currently anticipate. For example, the FDA has communicated a priority to build on initiatives to accelerate generic entry of complex generics, which include locally acting nasal drug products. If the FDA provides for alternatives to comparative clinical endpoint bioequivalence studies for generic versions of locally-acting orally inhaled and nasal drug products, companies that product generic equivalents to XHANCE may compete with XHANCE faster than we currently anticipate and a significant percentage of any future sales of XHANCE could be lost to such generic products. Moreover, in addition to generic competition, we could face competition from other companies seeking approval of products that are similar to ours using the Section 505(b)(2) pathway. Such applicants may be able to rely on XHANCE or other approved drug products or published literature to develop drug products that are similar to ours. The introduction of a drug product similar to our products or product candidates could expose us to increased competition, leading to a decrease in sales of XHANCE. Competition that we may face from generic or similar versions of XHANCE could materially and adversely impact our future revenue, profitability, and cash flows.. Even though we have obtained regulatory approval for XHANCE, we will still face extensive FDA regulatory requirements and may face future regulatory difficulties.. Even though we have obtained regulatory approval in the United States for XHANCE, the FDA and state regulatory authorities may still impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses or marketing of XHANCE, or impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-approval studies or post-marketing surveillance. For example, as part of its approval of XHANCE for the treatment of nasal polyps in adults, the FDA required that we conduct a randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled clinical study in children and adolescents with nasal polyposis to assess the safety, efficacy, and pharmacokinetics of XHANCE in this population. The FDA originally indicated the study was to be conducted in children and adolescents 6 to 17 years of age. On October 30, 2017, the FDA notified us that in response to our request it had modified the required age range to 12 to 17 years of age.  We submitted our final protocol to the FDA with respect to the pediatric study by January 2018 as required, and we are required to complete the study by January 2022 and to submit a final report with respect to the study by July 2022. Because the Optinose EDS for XHANCE was designed for use in adult patients, we may discover that the dimensions of this EDS make it unsuitable for use in pediatric patient populations. As such, this pediatric study may also require us to undergo a costly and time-consuming development process to design and manufacture as appropriate a modified EDS to conduct these studies.. We are also subject to ongoing FDA requirements governing the labeling, packaging, storage, distribution, safety surveillance, advertising, promotion, record-keeping and reporting of safety and other post-marketing information. The holder of an approved NDA is obligated to monitor and report AEs and any failure of a product to meet the specifications in the NDA. The holder of an approved NDA must also submit new or supplemental applications and obtain FDA approval for certain changes to the approved product, product labeling or manufacturing process. Advertising and promotional materials must comply with FDA regulations and may be subject to other potentially applicable federal and state laws. The applicable regulations in countries outside the United States grant similar powers to the competent authorities and impose similar obligations on companies.. 49. Table of Contents. In addition, manufacturers of drug products and their facilities are subject to payment of substantial user fees and continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities for compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice, or cGMP, regulations and adherence to commitments made in the NDA. Since XHANCE is a combination product, we will also need to comply with some of the FDA's manufacturing regulations for devices. In addition to cGMP, the FDA requires that our drug-device combination product comply with the Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which sets forth the FDA's manufacturing quality standards for medical devices, and other applicable government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. If we, or a regulatory authority, discover previously unknown problems with XHANCE, such as AEs, of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with a facility where the product is manufactured, a regulatory authority may impose restrictions relative to XHANCE or the manufacturing facility, including requiring recall or withdrawal of the product from the market, suspension of manufacturing, or other FDA action or other action by foreign regulatory authorities.. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements following approval of XHANCE, a regulatory authority may:. <U+25AA> issue a warning letter asserting that we are in violation of the law;. <U+25AA> seek an injunction or impose civil or criminal penalties or monetary fines;. <U+25AA> suspend, modify or withdraw regulatory approval;. <U+25AA> suspend any ongoing clinical trials;. <U+25AA> refuse to approve a pending NDA or a pending application for marketing authorization or supplements to an NDA or to an application for marketing authorization submitted by us;. <U+25AA> seize our product candidate; and/or. <U+25AA> refuse to allow us to enter into supply contracts, including government contracts.. Our relationships with physicians, patients and payors in the U.S. are subject to applicable anti-kickback, fraud and abuse laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with these laws could expose us to criminal, civil and administrative sanctions, reputational harm, and could harm our results of operations and financial conditions.. Our current and future operations with respect to the commercialization of XHANCE are subject to various U.S. federal and state healthcare laws and regulations. These laws impact, among other things, our proposed sales, marketing, support and education programs and constrain our business and financial arrangements and relationships with third-party payors, healthcare professionals and others who may prescribe, recommend, purchase or provide XHANCE, and other parties through which we market, sell and distribute XHANCE. Finally, our current and future operations are subject to additional healthcare-related statutory and regulatory requirements and enforcement by foreign regulatory authorities in jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. The laws are described in greater detail in the previous section under \"Business  -  Government Regulation  -  Healthcare Fraud and Abuse Laws,\" and include, but are not limited to:. <U+25AA> the U.S. federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons or entities from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or paying any remuneration, directly or indirectly, overtly or covertly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, lease, order, or arranging for or recommending the purchase, lease or order of, any good or service, for which payment may be made, in whole or in part, under federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. A person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation;. <U+25AA> the U.S. civil False Claims Act (which can be enforced through \"qui tam,\" or whistleblower actions, by private citizens on behalf of the federal government), prohibits any person from, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented false or fraudulent claims for payment of government funds or knowingly making, using or causing to be made or used, a false record or statement material to an obligation to pay money to the government or knowingly and improperly avoiding, decreasing or concealing an obligation to pay money to the U.S. federal government;. <U+25AA> the U.S. federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which imposes criminal and civil liability for, among other things, knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, or knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or. 50. Table of Contents. covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement, in connection with the delivery of, or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services by a healthcare benefit program, which includes both government and privately funded benefits programs; similar to the U.S. federal Anti-Kickback Statute, a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation.. <U+25AA> state laws and regulations, including state anti-kickback and false claims laws, that may apply to our business practices, including but not limited to, research, distribution, sales and marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including private insurers; state laws that require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the U.S. federal government, or otherwise restrict payments that may be made to healthcare providers and other potential referral sources; and state laws and regulations that require drug manufacturers to file reports relating to pricing and marketing information, which requires tracking gifts and other remuneration and items of value provided to healthcare professionals and entities; and. <U+25AA> the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, implemented as the Open Payments program, and its implementing regulations, requires certain manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies that are reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid, or the Children's Health Insurance Program to report annually to CMS information related to certain payments made in the preceding calendar year and other transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals, as well as ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members.. The shifting commercial compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with different compliance or reporting requirements in multiple jurisdictions increase the possibility that a healthcare or pharmaceutical company may fail to comply fully with one or more of these requirements. Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements with third parties will comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations may involve substantial costs. It is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that our business practices do not comply with applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations or guidance. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment, exclusion from government funded healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, additional oversight and reporting requirements if we become subject to a corporate integrity agreement to resolve allegations of non-compliance with these laws and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. If any of the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we expect to do business is found not to be in compliance with applicable laws, they may be subject to the same criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including exclusions from government funded healthcare programs. Even if we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which could harm our financial condition and divert resources and the attention of our management from operating our business.. Any government investigation of alleged violations of law could require us to expend significant time and resources in response and could generate negative publicity in addition to the aforementioned potential regulatory actions. The occurrence of any event or penalty described above may inhibit our ability to commercialize XHANCE and generate revenues which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we are able to successfully commercialize XHANCE and if we participate in but fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, or other governmental pricing programs, we could be subject to additional reimbursement requirements, penalties, sanctions and fines which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. We participate in the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, and other governmental pricing programs, and therefore we will be obligated to pay certain specified rebates and report pricing information with respect to XHANCE. Pricing and rebate calculations are complex and are often subject to interpretation by us, governmental or regulatory agencies and the courts. We cannot assure you that our submissions will not be found by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, to be incomplete or incorrect. Governmental agencies may also make changes in program interpretations, requirements or conditions of participation, some of which may have implications for amounts previously estimated or paid. The Medicaid rebate amount is computed each quarter based on our submission to CMS of our current average manufacturer price, or AMP, and best price for the quarter.. 51. Table of Contents. If we become aware that our reporting for a prior quarter was incorrect, or has changed as a result of recalculation of the pricing data, we are obligated to resubmit the corrected data for a period not to exceed twelve quarters from the quarter in which the data originally were due, and CMS may request or require restatements for earlier periods as well. Such restatements and recalculations increase our costs for complying with the laws and regulations governing the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program. Any corrections to our rebate calculations could result in an overage or underage in our rebate liability for past quarters, depending on the nature of the correction. Price recalculations also may affect the ceiling price at which we are required to offer our products to certain covered entities, such as safety-net providers, under the Public Health Service's 340B drug pricing program, or the 340B program, and under other similar government pricing programs. These programs are described in greater detail in the previous section under \"Business  -  Government Regulation  -  Coverage and Reimbursement.\". We will also be liable for errors associated with our submission of pricing data. In addition to retroactive rebates and the potential for 340B program refunds, if we are found to have knowingly submitted false AMP, or best price information to the government, we may be liable for civil monetary penalties in the amount of $181,071 per item of false information. If we are found to have made a misrepresentation in the reporting of our average sales price, we may be liable for civil monetary penalties of up to $13,066 for each misrepresentation for each day in which the misrepresentation was applied. Our failure to submit monthly/quarterly AMP and best price data on a timely basis could result in a civil monetary penalty of $18,107 per day for each day the information is late beyond the due date. Such failure also could be grounds for CMS to terminate our Medicaid drug rebate agreement, pursuant to which we participate in the Medicaid program. In the event that CMS terminates our rebate agreement, federal payments may not be available under Medicaid for XHANCE. On January 5, 2017, the U.S. Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), an agency of the HHS that administers the 340B drug pricing program issued a final regulation regarding the calculation of 340B ceiling price and the imposition of civil monetary penalties on manufacturers that knowingly and intentionally overcharge covered entities. The effective date of the regulation has been delayed until July 1, 2018. Implementation of this final rule and the issuance of any other final regulations and guidance could affect our obligations under the 340B program in ways that we cannot presently anticipate. In addition, legislation may be introduced that, if passed, would further expand the 340B program to additional covered entities or would require participating manufacturers to agree to provide 340B discounted pricing on drugs used in the inpatient setting.. Federal law requires that a company must participate in the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, or VA, Federal Supply Schedule, or FSS, pricing program to be eligible to have its products paid for with federal funds. As part of this program, we would be obligated to make XHANCE available for procurement on an FSS contract under which we must comply with standard government terms and conditions and charge a price that is no higher than the statutory Federal Ceiling Price, or FCP, to four federal agencies (VA, U.S. Department of Defense, or DOD, Public Health Service, and U.S. Coast Guard). The FCP is based on the Non-Federal Average Manufacturer Price, or Non-FAMP, which we calculate and report to the VA on a quarterly and annual basis. If we overcharge the government in connection with our FSS contract or Section 703 Agreement, whether due to a misstated FCP or otherwise, we are required to refund the difference to the government. Failure to make necessary disclosures and/or to identify contract overcharges can result in allegations against us under the U.S. civil False Claims Act and other laws and regulations. Unexpected refunds to the government, and responding to a government investigation or enforcement action, would be expensive and time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. Regulatory approval for any approved product is limited by the FDA to those specific indications and conditions for which clinical safety and efficacy have been demonstrated.. Our promotional materials, statements and training methods must comply with applicable laws and regulations, including FDA's prohibition of the promotion of unapproved, or off-label, use. Physicians may use our products off-label, as the FDA does not restrict or regulate a physician's independent choice of treatment within the practice of medicine. As healthcare professionals frequently prescribe corticosteroids for the treatment of chronic nasal inflammatory diseases, such as chronic rhinosinusitis, doctors could prescribe XHANCE for the treatment of chronic sinusitis and other chronic nasal inflammatory diseases, even though the FDA has granted approval of XHANCE only for the treatment of nasal polyps. If the FDA determines that our promotional materials, statements or activities constitute promotion of an off-label use, we could be required to modify our promotional materials, statements or training methods or subject us to regulatory or enforcement actions, such as the issuance of an untitled letter, a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine, disgorgement of money, operating restrictions or criminal penalties. We may also be subject to actions by other governmental entities or private parties, such as the U.S. civil False Claims Act, civil whistleblower or \"qui tam\" actions. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our promotional, materials or activities to constitute promotion of an off-. 52. Table of Contents. label use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities. In that event, our reputation could be damaged and market adoption of XHANCE could be impaired.. Even though we have obtained FDA approval for XHANCE in the United States, we may never obtain approval for or successfully commercialize it outside of the United States, which would limit our ability to realize its full market potential.. In order to market XHANCE outside of the United States, we must obtain marketing authorizations and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding quality, safety and efficacy. Clinical trials conducted in one country may not be accepted by foreign regulatory authorities, and regulatory approval in one country does not mean that regulatory approval will be obtained in any other country. Approval processes vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and validation and additional administrative review periods. Seeking foreign regulatory approval could result in difficulties and costs for us and require additional non-clinical studies or clinical trials, which could be costly and time consuming. Regulatory requirements can vary widely from country to country and could delay or prevent the introduction of XHANCE in those countries. While our management team has experience in obtaining foreign regulatory approvals at other companies, we do not have any product candidates approved for sale in any foreign jurisdiction, and we, as a company, do not have experience in obtaining regulatory approval in international markets. If we fail to comply with regulatory requirements in international markets or to obtain and maintain required approvals, or if regulatory approval in international markets is delayed, our target market for XHANCE will be reduced and we would not be able to realize the full market potential of XHANCE.. The Affordable Care Act and any changes in healthcare law may increase the difficulty and cost for us to commercialize XHANCE and affect the prices we may obtain.. The United States and many foreign jurisdictions have enacted or proposed legislative and regulatory changes affecting the healthcare system that could restrict or regulate post-approval activities and affect our ability to profitably sell XHANCE. The United States government, state legislatures and foreign governments also have shown significant interest in implementing cost-containment programs to limit the growth of government-paid healthcare costs, including price controls, restrictions on reimbursement and requirements for substitution of generic products for branded prescription drugs.. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, or collectively the Affordable Care Act was intended to broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of healthcare spending, enhance remedies against fraud and abuse, add transparency requirements for the healthcare and health insurance industries, impose new taxes and fees on the health industry and impose additional health policy reforms. These intended reforms are described in greater detail in the previous section under \"Business  -  Government Regulation  -  U.S. Healthcare Reform.\". Among the provisions of the Affordable Care Act that have been implemented since enactment and are of importance to the commercialization of XHANCE are the following:. <U+25AA> an annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports specified branded prescription drugs or biologic agents;. <U+25AA> an increase in the statutory minimum rebates a manufacturer must pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program;. <U+25AA> expansion of healthcare fraud and abuse laws, including the U.S. civil False Claims Act and the Anti-Kickback Statute, new government investigative powers, and enhanced penalties for noncompliance;. <U+25AA> a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50% point-of-sale discounts off negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for a manufacturer's outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D;. <U+25AA> extension of manufacturers' Medicaid rebate liability to covered drugs dispensed to individuals who are enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations;. <U+25AA> a new methodology by which rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program are calculated for drugs that are inhaled, infused, instilled, implanted, or injected;. <U+25AA> expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs;. 53. Table of Contents. <U+25AA> expansion of the entities eligible for discounts under the Public Health Service pharmaceutical pricing program;. <U+25AA> requirements to report certain financial arrangements with physicians and teaching hospitals;. <U+25AA> a requirement to annually report certain information regarding drug samples that manufacturers and distributors provide to physicians; and. <U+25AA> a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research.. Legislative changes to or regulatory changes under the Affordable Care Act remain possible in the 115th U.S. Congress and under the Trump Administration. In January 2017, President Trump signed an Executive Order directing federal agencies with authorities and responsibilities under the Affordable Care Act to waive, defer, grant exemptions from, or delay the implementation of any provision of the Affordable Care Act that would impose a fiscal or regulatory burden on states, individuals, healthcare providers, health insurers, or manufacturers of pharmaceuticals or medical devices. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted on December 22, 2017, eliminated the shared responsibility payment for individuals who fail to maintain minimum essential coverage under section 5000A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, commonly referred to as the individual mandate, beginning in 2019. In addition, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 increased the Affordable Care Act required manufacturer point-of-sale discount from 50% to 70% off the negotiated price for Medicare Part D beneficiaries during their coverage gap period beginning in 2019. We expect that the Affordable Care Act, as currently enacted or as it may be amended in the future, and other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future could have a material adverse effect on our industry generally and on our ability to maintain or increase sales of XHANCE or to successfully commercialize XHANCE. We expect that the Affordable Care Act, as well as other healthcare reform measures that have and may be adopted in the future, may result in more rigorous coverage criteria and in additional downward pressure on the price that we receive for XHANCE and could seriously harm our future revenues. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid, or other government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. The implementation of cost containment measures or other healthcare reforms may prevent us from being able to generate revenue, attain profitability or commercialize XHANCE.. Product liability lawsuits against us could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to limit commercialization of XHANCE and any other product candidates that we may develop.. We currently face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our product candidates in human clinical trials, and this risk will increase significantly as we commercialize XHANCE and other product candidates that we may develop. We may face product liability claims, regardless of FDA approval for commercial manufacturing and sale as product liability claims may be brought against us by patients who have used XHANCE in any of our clinical trials, future patients, healthcare providers or others using, administering or selling our products, if and when approved. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against claims that our product candidates or products caused injuries, we could incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in:. <U+25AA> decreased demand for XHANCE;. <U+25AA> injury to our reputation and significant negative media attention;. <U+25AA> termination of clinical trial sites or entire trial programs that we conduct in the future relating to XHANCE or our other product candidates;. <U+25AA> withdrawal of clinical trial participants from any future clinical trial relating to XHANCE or our other product candidates;. <U+25AA> significant costs to defend the related litigation;. <U+25AA> substantial monetary awards to patients;. <U+25AA> loss of revenue;. <U+25AA> diversion of management and scientific resources from our business operations; and. 54. Table of Contents. <U+25AA> an increase in product liability insurance premiums or an inability to maintain product liability insurance coverage.. We currently carry product liability insurance with coverage up to $10.0 million in the aggregate, with a per incident limit of $10.0 million, which may not be adequate to cover all liabilities that we may incur. Further, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in an amount adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. Our inability to maintain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of XHANCE or the development of our other product candidates.. Additionally, any agreements we may enter into in the future with collaborators in connection with the development or commercialization of XHANCE or any of our other product candidates may entitle us to indemnification against product liability losses, but such indemnification may not be available or adequate should any claim arise. In addition, several of our agreements require us to indemnify third parties and these indemnifications obligations may exceed the coverage under our product liability insurance policy. For example, the AVP-825 License Agreement provides for reciprocal indemnification obligations for each of the parties in the event that a product liability claim arises from, among other things, one party's development, manufacture, sale or commercialization activities for AVP-825.. Risks Related to Clinical Development and Regulatory Approval of XHANCE for the Treatment of Chronic Sinusitis and Our Other Product Candidates. The design and execution of clinical trials to support FDA-approval of XHANCE for the treatment of chronic sinusitis is subject to substantial risk and uncertainty.. We intend to initiate a clinical program to support a follow-on indication of XHANCE for the treatment of chronic sinusitis. Similar to our NDA for XHANCE for the treatment of nasal polyps, we believe we may also be able to use the Section 505(b)(2) pathway for potential U.S. approval for XHANCE for the treatment of chronic sinusitis. Because there is no FDA-approved product for the treatment of chronic sinusitis, we believe there is substantial risk and uncertainty in planning and conducting adequate clinical trials to meet FDA requirements to support approval for this indication. If the clinical program required by the FDA is more costly or time-consuming than anticipated, we may decide to not pursue this follow-on indication. Additionally, if we do conduct clinical trials for this indication, XHANCE may not demonstrate sufficient efficacy or safety to support FDA approval. If we do not obtain a follow-on indication for the treatment of chronic sinusitis, our promotion of XHANCE will be limited to nasal polyps, which would limit our potential sales of XHANCE.. The regulatory approval processes of the FDA are lengthy, time consuming and inherently unpredictable, and if we are ultimately unable to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, our business will be substantially harmed.. The time required to obtain approval by the FDA is unpredictable but typically takes many years following the commencement of clinical trials and depends upon numerous factors, including the substantial discretion of the regulatory agency. In addition, approval policies, regulations, or the type and amount of clinical data necessary to gain approval may change during the course of a product candidate's clinical development. It is possible that none of our existing product candidates or any product candidates we may seek to develop in the future will ever obtain regulatory approval.. Our product candidates could fail to receive regulatory approval for many reasons, including the following:. <U+25AA> the FDA may not accept our NDA filing;. <U+25AA> the FDA may disagree with the design, scope or implementation of our clinical trials;. <U+25AA> we may be unable to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA that a product candidate is safe and effective for its proposed indication;. <U+25AA> we may be unable to demonstrate that a product candidate's clinical and other benefits outweigh its safety risks;. <U+25AA> the FDA may disagree with our interpretation of data from preclinical studies or clinical trials;. <U+25AA> the data collected from clinical trials of our product candidates may not be sufficient to support the submission of an NDA;. 55. Table of Contents. <U+25AA> the FDA may fail to approve the manufacturing processes or facilities of third-party manufacturers with which we contract for clinical and commercial supplies; and. <U+25AA> the approval policies or regulations of the FDA may change in a manner rendering our clinical data insufficient for approval.. With the exception of our NDA submission for XHANCE, we have not previously submitted an NDA or any similar drug approval filing to the FDA for any product candidate, and we cannot be certain that any of our current product candidates will receive regulatory approval. If we do not receive regulatory approval for our product candidates, we may not be able to continue our operations. Even if we successfully obtain regulatory approval to market one or more of our product candidates, our revenue will be dependent, to a significant extent, upon the size of the markets in the territories for which we gain regulatory approval. If the markets for patients or indications that we are targeting are not as significant as we estimate, we may not generate significant revenue from sales of such products, if approved.. Clinical development is a lengthy and expensive process with an uncertain outcome, and results of earlier studies and trials may not be predictive of future trial results. Clinical failure can occur at any stage of clinical development.. Clinical trials are expensive, can take many years to complete and have highly uncertain outcomes. Failure can occur at any time during the clinical trial process as a result of inadequate performance of a drug, inadequate adherence by patients or investigators to clinical trial protocols, or other factors. Drug candidates in later stages of clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy traits despite having progressed through earlier clinical trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials as a result of a lack of efficacy or adverse safety profiles, despite promising results in earlier trials. Our clinical trials for the follow-on indication of XHANCE for the treatment of chronic sinusitis or our other product candidates may not be successful or may be more expensive or time-consuming than we currently expect. If clinical trials for these product candidates fail to demonstrate safety or efficacy to the satisfaction of the FDA, the FDA may not approve that product candidate and we would not be able to commercialize it, which could impair our ability to gain or maintain profitability.. Delays in clinical trials are common and have many causes, and any delay could result in increased costs to us and jeopardize or delay our ability to obtain regulatory approval and commence product sales.. We may experience delays in clinical trials of our product candidates or the time required to complete clinical trials for our product candidates may be longer than anticipated. Our future clinical trials may not begin on time, have an effective design, enroll a sufficient number of patients, or be completed on schedule, if at all. Our clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to:. <U+25AA> inability to raise funding necessary to initiate or continue a clinical trial;. <U+25AA> delays in obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial;. <U+25AA> delays in reaching agreement with the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities on final trial design or the scope of the development program;. <U+25AA> imposition of a clinical hold following an inspection of our clinical trial operations or trial sites by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities;. <U+25AA> delays in reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations, or CROs, and clinical trial sites;. <U+25AA> delays in obtaining required institutional review board, or IRB, approval;. <U+25AA> delays in recruiting suitable patients to participate in a clinical trial;. <U+25AA> patients' delays or failure to complete participation in a clinical trial or return for post-treatment follow-up;. <U+25AA> clinical sites dropping out of a clinical trial;. <U+25AA> time required to add new clinical sites; or. <U+25AA> delays by our contract manufacturing organizations, or CMOs, to produce and deliver a sufficient supply of clinical trial materials.. 56. Table of Contents. If clinical trials for our product candidates are delayed for any of the above reasons or other reasons, our development costs may increase, our approval process could be delayed and our ability to commercialize our product candidates could be materially harmed.. We will need to identify proprietary names for our product candidates that are acceptable to FDA, and any delay associated with doing so may adversely impact our business.. Any proprietary name we propose to use with our product candidates in the United States must be reviewed and accepted by the FDA, regardless of whether we have registered it, or applied to register it, as a trademark. The FDA reviews any proposed product name, including an evaluation of potential for confusion with other product names. The FDA may also object to a product name if it believes the name inappropriately implies medical claims or contributes to an overstatement of efficacy. If the FDA objects to any proposed proprietary product name, we may be required to expend significant additional resources in an effort to identify a suitable proprietary product name that would qualify under applicable laws, not infringe the existing rights of third parties and be acceptable to the FDA.. Our product candidates, if approved, may require REMS, which may significantly increase our costs.. Our product candidates, if approved, may require REMS. The REMS may include requirements for special labeling or medication guides for patients, special communication plans to healthcare professionals and restrictions on distribution and use. We cannot predict the specific scope or magnitude of REMS that may be required as part of the FDA's approval of our other product candidates. Depending on the extent of the REMS requirements, our costs to commercialize our product candidates may increase significantly and distribution restrictions could limit sales. Similar requirements may arise in countries outside of the United States.. Changes in regulatory requirements and guidance may occur and we may need to amend clinical trial protocols submitted to applicable regulatory authorities to reflect these changes. Amendments may require us to resubmit clinical trial protocols to IRBs or ethics committees for re-examination, which may impact the costs, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial.. The FDA's and other regulatory authorities' policies may change, and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent, limit or delay regulatory approval of our other product candidates. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing requirements or the adoption of new requirements or policies, or if we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may lose any marketing approval that we may have obtained.. If we are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other studies with respect to our product candidates beyond those that we currently contemplate, or if we are unable to successfully complete our clinical trials or other studies, we may be delayed in obtaining regulatory approval of any of our product candidates, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval at all or we may obtain approval of indications that are not as broad as intended. Our product development costs will also increase if we experience delays in testing or approvals, and we may not have sufficient funding to complete the testing and approval process for our product candidates. Significant clinical trial delays could allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do and impair our ability to commercialize our products if and when approved. If any of this occurs, our business would be harmed.. Risks Related to Our Reliance on Third Parties. If we encounter difficulties in maintaining commercial manufacturing and supply agreements with our third-party manufacturers and suppliers of XHANCE, our ability to commercialize XHANCE would be impaired.. We do not own any manufacturing facilities. We currently have no plans to build our own clinical or commercial scale manufacturing facility. We lack the resources to manufacture and test, on a commercial scale, the technical performance of XHANCE and our other product candidates. We currently rely, and expect to continue to rely, on a limited number of experienced personnel and CMOs and suppliers who assist in the production, assembly, test, supply, storage and distribution of XHANCE and its components in our clinical trials and FDA registration, and we control only some of the aspects of their activities. We may not be able to maintain terms that are favorable to us.  We may not be able to enter into commercial manufacturing and supply agreements with any necessary third parties, should such additional agreements become necessary. If we are unable to enter into such agreements or maintain existing agreements, each on commercially reasonable terms, our ability to commercialize XHANCE would be impaired, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected.. 57. Table of Contents. If we encounter issues with our contract manufacturers or suppliers, we may need to qualify alternative manufacturers or suppliers, which could impair our ability to sufficiently and timely manufacture and supply XHANCE.. We currently depend on contract manufacturers and suppliers for XHANCE and its components. Although we could obtain each of these components from other third-party suppliers, we would need to qualify and obtain FDA approval for another contract manufacturer or supplier as an alternative source for each such component, which could be costly and cause significant delays. Each of our current commercial manufacturing and supply agreements include limitations on our ability to utilize alternative manufacturers or suppliers for these components above certain specified thresholds during the terms of the agreements, which impairs our ability to fully implement any future manufacturing strategies to prevent supply shortages or quality issues.. In addition, some of our suppliers, including our active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, supplier and our contract manufacturers, conduct their manufacturing operations for us at a single facility. Unless and until we qualify additional facilities, we may face limitations in our ability to respond to manufacturing and supply issues. For example, if regulatory, manufacturing or other problems require one of these manufacturers or suppliers to discontinue production at their respective facility, or if the equipment used for the production of XHANCE in these facilities is significantly damaged or destroyed by fire, flood, earthquake, power loss or similar events, the ability of such manufacturer or supplier to provide components or API needed for XHANCE, or to manufacture XHANCE may be significantly impaired. In the event that these parties suffer a temporary or protracted loss of its facility or equipment, we would still be required to obtain FDA approval to qualify a new manufacturer or supplier, as applicable, as an alternate manufacturer or source for the respective component before any components manufactured by such manufacturer or by such supplier could be sold or used.. Any production shortfall that impairs the supply of XHANCE or any of these components could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for XHANCE, which could adversely affect our product sales and operating results materially.. If third-party manufacturers, wholesalers and distributors fail to devote sufficient time and resources to XHANCE or their performance is substandard, our product supply may be impacted.. Our reliance on a limited number of manufacturers, wholesalers and distributors exposes us to the following risks, any of which could limit commercial supply of our products, result in higher costs, or deprive us of potential product revenues:. <U+25AA> our CMOs, or other third parties we rely on, may encounter difficulties in achieving the volume of production needed to satisfy commercial demand, may experience technical issues that impact quality or compliance with applicable and strictly enforced regulations governing the manufacture of pharmaceutical products, and may experience shortages of qualified personnel to adequately staff production operations;. <U+25AA> our wholesalers and distributors could become unable to sell and deliver XHANCE for regulatory, compliance and other reasons;. <U+25AA> our CMOs, wholesalers and distributors could default on their agreements with us to meet our requirements for commercial supply of XHANCE;. <U+25AA> our CMOs, wholesalers and distributors may not perform as agreed or may not remain in business for the time required to successfully produce, store, sell and distribute our products and we may incur additional cost; and. <U+25AA> if our CMOs, wholesalers and distributors were to terminate our arrangements or fail to meet their contractual obligations, we may be forced to delay our commercial programs.. Our reliance on third parties reduces our control over our product candidate development and commercialization activities but does not relieve us of our responsibility to ensure compliance with all required legal, regulatory and scientific standards. For example, the FDA and other regulatory authorities require that our product candidates and any products that we may eventually commercialize be manufactured according to cGMP and similar foreign standards. Any failure by our third-party manufacturers to comply with cGMP or failure to scale up manufacturing processes, including any failure to deliver sufficient quantities of product candidates in a timely manner, could lead to a delay in, or failure to obtain, regulatory approval of any of our product candidates or supply our commercial volume of XHANCE. In addition, such failure could be the basis for the FDA to issue a warning or untitled letter, withdraw approvals for product candidates previously granted to us, or take other regulatory or legal action,. 58. Table of Contents. including recall or seizure, total or partial suspension of production, suspension of ongoing clinical trials, refusal to approve pending applications or supplemental applications, detention or product, refusal to permit the import or export of products, injunction, imposing civil penalties or pursuing criminal prosecution.. Manufacturing issues may arise that could increase product and regulatory approval costs or delay commercialization.. As we further scale up manufacturing of XHANCE and conduct required stability testing, issues may arise involving product-packaging and third-party equipment malfunctions. These issues may require refinement or resolution in order to continue with commercial marketing of XHANCE. In addition, quality issues may arise during scale-up and of commercial manufacturing processes. Any issues in our product or delivery devices could result in increased scrutiny by regulatory authorities, delays in our regulatory approval process, increases in our operating expenses, or failure to obtain or maintain approval for our products.. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, or if they terminate their agreement with us, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates.. We have relied upon and plan to continue to rely upon CROs to monitor and manage data for our prospective preclinical and clinical programs. We rely on these parties for execution of our clinical trials, and we control only some of the aspects of their activities. Nevertheless, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our studies and clinical trials are conducted in accordance with the applicable protocol, legal, regulatory and scientific standards, and our reliance on the CROs does not relieve us of our regulatory responsibilities. We and our CROs are required to comply with federal regulations and current Good Clinical Practices, or GCP, which are international standards meant to protect the rights and health of patients and to define the roles of clinical trial sponsors, advisors and monitors. GCPs are enforced by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities in the form of International Conference on Harmonization, or ICH, guidelines for all of our product candidates in clinical development. Regulatory authorities enforce these GCP through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, principal investigators and trial sites. If we or any of our CROs fail to comply with applicable GCP and other regulations, including as a result of any recent changes in such regulations, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications. We cannot assure you that upon inspection by a given regulatory authority, such regulatory authority will determine that any of our clinical trials comply with GCP requirements. In addition, our clinical trials must be conducted with product produced under cGMP requirements. While we have agreements governing activities of our CROs, we have limited influence over their actual performance. Failure to comply with applicable regulations in the conduct of the clinical trials for our product candidates may require us to repeat preclinical studies and clinical trials, which would increase our operating expenses and delay the regulatory approval process.. Our CROs are not our employees, and except for remedies available to us under our agreements with such CROs, we cannot control whether or not they devote sufficient time and resources to our ongoing clinical and preclinical programs. If our CROs do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, if they need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols, regulatory requirements or for other reasons or if we receive additional FDA notices that do require corrective action, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our product candidates. As a result, the commercial prospects for our product candidates would be harmed, our costs could increase substantially and our ability to generate revenue could be delayed.. Switching or adding additional CROs involves additional cost and requires management time and focus. Identifying, qualifying and managing performance of third-party service providers can be difficult, time-consuming and cause delays in our development programs. In addition, there is a natural transition period when a new CRO commences work and the new CRO may not provide the same type or level of services as the original provider. Though we carefully manage our relationships with our CROs, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter challenges or delays in the future or that these delays or challenges will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and prospects. If any of our relationships with our CROs terminate, we may not be able to enter into arrangements with alternative CROs or to do so on commercially reasonable terms. As a result, delays may occur, which can materially impact our ability to meet our desired clinical development timelines.. Because we have relied on third parties, our internal capacity to perform these functions is limited. Outsourcing these functions involves risks that third parties may not perform to our standards, may not produce results in a timely manner or may fail to perform at all. In addition, the use of third-party service providers requires us to. 59. Table of Contents. disclose our proprietary information to these parties, which could increase the risk that this information will be misappropriated. We currently have a small number of employees, which limits the internal resources we have available to identify and monitor our third-party providers. To the extent we are unable to identify and successfully manage the performance of third-party service providers in the future, our ability to advance our product candidates through clinical trials will be compromised. Though we carefully manage our relationships with our CROs, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter similar challenges or delays in the future or that these delays or challenges will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and prospects.. Risks Related to Our Business Operations and Industry. Our future success depends on our ability to retain and have the full attention of our key executives and to attract, retain and motivate other qualified personnel.. We are highly dependent on the management, development, clinical, financial and business development expertise of our executive team and, in particular, the services of Peter K. Miller, our Chief Executive Officer, and Ramy A. Mahmoud, our President and Chief Operating Officer. Each of Mr. Miller and Dr. Mahmoud is employed by us at will and is permitted to terminate his employment with us at any time. We entered into employment agreements with Mr. Miller and Dr. Mahmoud in October 2017, but Mr. Miller and Dr. Mahmoud continue to be employed at will. We do not maintain \"key person\" insurance for any of our executives or other employees. The loss of the services of Mr. Miller or Dr. Mahmoud could impede the achievement of our development and commercialization objectives.. Recruiting and retaining qualified employees for our business, including scientific, technical and sales and marketing personnel, will also be critical to our success. Competition for skilled personnel in our industry is intense and the turnover rate can be high. We may not be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms given the competition among numerous pharmaceutical companies for individuals with similar skill sets. In addition, failure to succeed in our commercialization efforts or in the performance of any future clinical studies may make it more challenging to recruit and retain qualified personnel. The inability to recruit or loss of the services of any executive or key employee could impede the progress of our research, development and commercialization objectives.. We will need to grow the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing this growth.. Implementation of our development and commercialization strategies will require additional managerial, operational, sales, marketing, financial and other resources. Our current management, personnel and systems may not be adequate to effectively manage the expansion of our operations, which may result in weaknesses in our infrastructure, give rise to operational mistakes, loss of business opportunities, employee turnover and reduced productivity. Future growth could require significant capital expenditures and may divert financial resources from other projects, such as the development of our existing or future product candidates. Future growth would impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including:. <U+25AA> managing the commercialization XHANCE and any other products for which we obtain marketing approval;. <U+25AA> overseeing our preclinical studies and clinical trials effectively;. <U+25AA> identifying, recruiting, maintaining, motivating and integrating additional employees, including any sales and marketing personnel engaged in connection with the commercialization of any approved product;. <U+25AA> managing our internal development efforts effectively while complying with our contractual obligations to licensors, licensees, contractors and other third parties; and. <U+25AA> improving our managerial, development, operational and financial systems and procedures.. As our operations expand, we will need to manage additional relationships with various strategic collaborators, suppliers and other third parties. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize our product candidates and to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to manage any future growth effectively. To that end, we must be able to manage our development efforts and clinical trials effectively and hire, train and integrate additional management, administrative and sales and marketing personnel. Failure to accomplish any of these activities could prevent us from successfully growing our company.. 60. Table of Contents. We are subject to intense competition and, if we are unable to compete effectively, our product candidates, if approved, may not reach their commercial potential.. The development and commercialization of new drugs is highly competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change as research provides a deeper understanding of the pathology of diseases and new technologies and treatments are developed. We face competition with respect to XHANCE from INS, oral steroids and other medical management products, and will face competition with respect to any other product candidates that we may seek to develop or commercialize in the future, from many different sources, including large pharmaceutical, biotechnology, specialty pharmaceutical and, to a lesser degree, medical device companies.. The key competitive factors that we expect to impact the commercial success of XHANCE and any other product candidates we may develop are likely to be their efficacy, safety and tolerability profile, reliability, convenience of administration, price and reimbursement. Nasonex, marketed by Merck, is currently the only other branded drug therapy approved by the FDA for the treatment of nasal polyps, which is our initial indication for XHANCE. A generic version of Nasonex, mometasone furoate monohydrate, was approved by the FDA for, among other indications, the treatment of nasal polyps and launched in 2016. In addition, Beconase AQ, which is an INS marketed by GlaxoSmithKline, is indicated for the prophylaxis of nasal polyps after surgical resection. We are not aware of any drug therapy approved by the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies for the treatment of chronic sinusitis.. Even though they have not been approved for the treatment of such indications, published clinical practice guidelines do recommend the use of INS products for the treatment of chronic rhinosinusitis and nasal polyps in an effort to maximize medical therapy prior to surgical intervention. Currently approved branded INS products include Rhinocort, marketed by AstraZeneca, Nasacort AQ, marketed by sanofi-aventis, Beconase AQ, Flonase, and Veramyst, each marketed by GlaxoSmithKline, Qnasl, marketed by Teva Pharmaceuticals, and Omnaris and Zetonna, each marketed by Sunovion Pharmaceuticals. Due to the limitations of current treatments, several companies are investigating the treatment of nasal polyps with biologic monoclonal antibodies. To date, four biologic monoclonal antibodies have been studied in nasal polyps: omalizumab, reslizumab, mepolizumab and dupilumab. Most of these INS and biologics companies, as well as other potential competitors, have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we do and significantly greater experience in the discovery and development of product candidates, obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products and the commercialization of those products.. Mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries may result in even more resources being concentrated among a small number of our competitors. Accordingly, our competitors may be more successful than we may be in obtaining FDA approval of drugs and achieving widespread market acceptance. Our competitors' drugs, or drugs they may develop in the future, may be more effective, or more effectively marketed and sold, than any drug we may commercialize and may render XHANCE or any of our other product candidates we may develop obsolete or non-competitive before we can recover the expenses of developing and commercializing XHANCE or any of our other product candidates. Our competitors may also obtain FDA or other regulatory approval of products more rapidly than expected or may obtain better or preferred market access by offering large rebates to payors or by other means. We may not have accurately or completely predicted the development of new and improved or low-cost surgical interventions, alternative medical therapies or other market-disrupting events. If we are unable to manufacture, distribute, stimulate demand reaching the predicted market share, overcome barriers to access or otherwise effectively commercialize the product, all of which factors may be influenced by current or future competition, then our opportunity to generate revenue from the sale of XHANCE or any of our other product candidates, if approved, will be compromised.. Our long-term growth depends on our ability to develop and commercialize additional ENT products.. It is important to our business that we continue to build a more complete product offering within the ENT and allergy markets. We are evaluating the use of our proprietary EDS technology to develop new product candidates for the ENT and allergy markets. Developing additional product candidates is expensive and time-consuming and could divert management's attention away from the commercialization of XHANCE. Even if we are successful in developing additional product candidates, the success of any new product candidates or enhancement to any existing product candidates will depend on several factors, including our ability to:. <U+25AA> properly identify and anticipate ENT and allergy physician and patient needs;. <U+25AA> develop, obtain necessary regulatory clearances or approvals, and introduce new product candidates or product enhancements in a timely manner;. 61. Table of Contents. <U+25AA> demonstrate, if required, the safety and efficacy of new product candidates with data from preclinical studies and clinical trials;. <U+25AA> avoid infringing upon the intellectual property rights of third parties;. <U+25AA> comply with all regulations relating to the marketing of new product candidates, including any new or modified EDS technologies; and. <U+25AA> provide adequate training to potential users of our product candidates.. If we are unsuccessful in developing and commercializing additional product candidates in other areas of the ENT and allergy markets, our ability to gain and maintain profitability may be impaired.. We may acquire other assets or businesses, or form collaborations or make investments in other companies or technologies, which could negatively impact our operating results, dilute our stockholders' ownership, increase our debt or cause us to incur significant expense.. As part of our business strategy, we may pursue acquisitions of assets, including preclinical, clinical or commercial-stage products or product candidates, businesses or strategic alliances and collaborations, to expand our existing technologies and operations. We may not identify or complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any such transaction. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates, and if we make any acquisitions, we may not be able to complete technology transfers and integrate these acquisitions successfully into our existing business and we may incur additional debt or assume unknown or contingent liabilities as part of the transaction. Integration of an acquired company or assets may also disrupt ongoing operations, require the hiring of additional personnel and the implementation of additional internal systems and infrastructure, especially the acquisition of commercial assets, and require management resources that would otherwise focus on developing our existing business. We may not be able to find suitable strategic collaborators or identify other investment opportunities, and we may experience losses related to any such investments.. To finance any acquisitions or collaborations, we may choose to issue debt or shares of our common or preferred stock as consideration. Any such issuance of shares would dilute the ownership of our stockholders. If the price of our common stock is low or volatile, we may not be able to acquire other assets or companies or fund a transaction using our stock as consideration. Alternatively, it may be necessary for us to raise additional funds for acquisitions through public or private financings. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, or at all.. Our employees, collaborators, independent contractors, principal investigators, consultants, vendors and CROs may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including noncompliance with regulatory standards and requirements.. We are exposed to the risk that our employees, collaborators, independent contractors, principal investigators, consultants, vendors and CROs may engage in fraudulent or other illegal activity with respect to our business. Misconduct by these employees could include intentional, reckless and/or negligent conduct or unauthorized activity that violates:. <U+25AA> FDA regulations, including those laws requiring the reporting of true, complete and accurate information to the FDA;. <U+25AA> manufacturing standards;. <U+25AA> federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations; or. <U+25AA> laws that require the true, complete and accurate reporting of financial information or data.. In particular, sales, marketing and business arrangements in the healthcare industry are subject to extensive laws and regulations intended to prevent fraud, kickbacks, self-dealing and other abusive practices. These laws and regulations may restrict or prohibit a wide range of pricing, discounting, marketing and promotion, sales commission, customer incentive programs and other business arrangements. Misconduct by these parties could also involve individually identifiable information, including, without limitation, the improper use of information obtained in the course of clinical trials, or illegal misappropriation of drug product, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious harm to our reputation. Any incidents or any other conduct that leads to an employee receiving an FDA debarment could result in a loss of business from third parties and severe reputational harm.. 62. Table of Contents. In October 2017, we adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics to govern and deter such behaviors, but it is not always possible to identify and deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, monetary fines, possible exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs, contractual damages, reputational harm, diminished profits and future earnings, additional reporting requirements and oversight if we become subject to a corporate integrity agreement or similar agreement to resolve allegations of non-compliance with these laws, and curtailment of our operations.. The security of our information technology systems may be compromised, and confidential information, including non-public personal information that we maintain, could be improperly disclosed.. Our information technology systems may be vulnerable to physical or electronic intrusions, computer viruses or other attacks. As part of our business, we and our vendors maintain large amounts of confidential information, including non-public personal information on patients, our employees and business partners. Breaches in security could result in the loss or misuse of this information, which could, in turn, result in potential regulatory actions or litigation, including material claims for damages, interruption to our operations, damage to our reputation or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We expect to have appropriate information security policies and systems in place in order to prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information, including non-public personal information, however, there can be no assurance that such use or disclosure will not occur.. If we fail to comply with data protection laws and regulations, we could be subject to government enforcement actions, which could include civil or criminal penalties, as well as private litigation and/or adverse publicity, any of which could negatively affect our operating results and business.. We may be subject to laws and regulations that address privacy and data security of patients who use our product candidates in the United States and in states in which we conduct our business. In the United States, numerous federal and state laws and regulations, including state data breach notification laws, state health information privacy laws, and federal and state consumer protection laws (e.g., Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act) govern the collection, use, disclosure, and protection of health-related and other personal information. For instance, HIPAA imposes certain obligations, including mandatory contractual terms, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information and imposes notification obligations in the event of a breach of the privacy or security of individually identifiable health information on entities subject to HIPAA and their business associates that perform certain activities that involve the use or disclosure of protected health information on their behalf. Certain of these laws and regulations are described in greater detail in the previous section under \"Business  -  Government Regulation  -  Healthcare Privacy Laws.\" Failure to comply with applicable data protection laws and regulations could result in government enforcement actions and create liability for us, which could include civil and/or criminal penalties, as well as private litigation and/or adverse publicity that could negatively affect our operating results and business.. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of computer system failures, cyberattacks or a deficiency in our cybersecurity.. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems and those of our contractors and consultants are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures, cyberattacks or cyber-intrusions over the Internet, attachments to emails, persons inside our organization, or persons with access to systems inside our organization. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber-attacks or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments, and cyber terrorists, has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. Such an event could cause interruption of our operations. For example, the loss of data from completed or ongoing clinical trials for our product candidates could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. To the extent that any disruption or security breach were to result in a loss of or damage to our data, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential, proprietary or personal information, we could incur material legal claims and liability and damage to our reputation and the development and commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed.. 63. Table of Contents. If we fail to successfully manage the implementation of our new global enterprise resource planning system, it could adversely affect our operations and operating results.. We are in the process of implementing a new global enterprise resource planning (ERP) system. This system will replace many of our existing operating and financial systems. Such an implementation is a major undertaking, both financially and from a management and personnel perspective. Any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design and implementation of our new ERP system could adversely affect our ability to process financial transactions, fulfill contractual obligations or otherwise operate our business.. We are subject to risks inherent in foreign operations.. We currently operate portions of our business through our foreign subsidiaries, including through our Norwegian subsidiary, OptiNose AS, which currently owns a substantial portion of our intellectual property and conducts development activities, and our United Kingdom subsidiary OptiNose UK Ltd., which performs research and development for the Optinose EDS technology as well as other services. We have committed, and intend to continue to commit, resources to our international operations. We are subject to a number of risks associated with our international business operations and activities that may increase liability, costs, and require significant management attention. These risks include:. <U+25AA> compliance with the laws of the United States, the United Kingdom, Norway, and other countries that apply to our international operations, including import and export legislation;. <U+25AA> compliance with foreign data protection laws and regulations in the United Kingdom, Norway and other countries that apply to our international operations;. <U+25AA> the complexities and expenses of administering a business abroad;. <U+25AA> complications in compliance with, and unexpected changes in, tariffs, trade barriers, price and exchange controls and other foreign regulatory requirements, including potential trade conflicts, changes to trade agreements/treaties, and the implementation of trade restrictions;. <U+25AA> instability in economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession and actual or anticipated military conflicts, social upheaval or political uncertainty;. <U+25AA> production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad;. <U+25AA> uncertainties of laws and enforcement relating to the protection of intellectual property or secured technology;. <U+25AA> litigation in foreign court systems;. <U+25AA> language barriers;. <U+25AA> changes in tax laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate;. <U+25AA> compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws, regulations and restrictions for employees living or traveling abroad;. <U+25AA> difficulties staffing and managing foreign operations; and. <U+25AA> workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the United States;. There can be no assurance that the policies and procedures we implement to address or mitigate these risks will be successful, that our personnel will comply with them or that we will not experience these factors in the future or that they will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our corporate structure and foreign operations may have adverse tax consequences and expose us to additional tax liabilities.. A substantial portion of our intellectual property, including rights to XHANCE and rights under the AVP-825 License Agreement, are owned by OptiNose AS, our Norwegian subsidiary. In addition, as we plan for the commercial launch of XHANCE, commercial functions may be conducted by a current or potential future foreign subsidiary.. 64. Table of Contents. We operate pursuant to written intercompany service and related agreements, or transfer pricing agreements. These transfer pricing agreements establish transfer prices for intellectual property licenses, production, marketing, management, technology development and other services performed by our group companies for other group companies. Transfer prices are prices that one company in a group of related companies charge to another member of the group for goods, services or the use of property. If two or more affiliated companies are located in different countries, the tax laws or regulations of each country generally will require that transfer prices be consistent with those between unrelated companies dealing at arm's length. Our transfer pricing arrangements are not binding on applicable tax authorities, and, if tax authorities in any country were successful in challenging our transfer prices as not representing arm's length transactions, they could require us to adjust our transfer prices and thereby reallocate our income. A reallocation of taxable income from one tax jurisdiction to another tax jurisdiction could result in a higher tax liability to us. In addition, if the country from which the income is reallocated does not agree with the reallocation, both countries could tax the same income, resulting in double taxation.. If we generate sales of XHANCE in the United States or otherwise generate any other sales or revenues, a portion of the income we generate may be allocated to one or more of our current or future foreign subsidiaries and repatriation of any cash from our foreign subsidiaries to the United States may trigger significant adverse tax consequences. If we generate cash through our foreign operations or if the cash generated by our U.S. operations is not sufficient to fund our U.S. operations, we may face challenges applying any such cash held by our foreign subsidiaries to support the growth of our U.S. operations and any strategic opportunities in the United States. If we are forced to repatriate any foreign-held cash, we could incur a significant tax charge, and our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely impacted.. Income earned by our foreign subsidiaries may give rise to United States corporate income tax, even if there are no distributions to the United States, to the extent that our foreign subsidiaries generate income that is subject to Subpart F or similar provisions of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, such as the new global intangible low-taxed income provisions, generally referred to in this paragraph as Subpart F. Subpart F income includes, for example, certain \"passive\" income, certain income from intercompany transactions involving our foreign subsidiaries, foreign subsidiary income over a legislative threshold, and certain income of any foreign subsidiary which makes an \"investment in U.S. property\", such as holding the stock in, or making a loan to, a U.S. corporation. Any income taxable under Subpart F is currently taxable in the United States at federal corporate income tax rates of up to 21.0%, even if it is not distributed to us. We have not treated any of our foreign subsidiaries' income as being Subpart F income pursuant to available exemptions for which we believe we qualify. We may, however, be required to do so and pay taxes on the prior and future income of our foreign subsidiaries if we do not qualify for an available exemption.. Comprehensive tax reform legislation could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, the US government signed into law comprehensive tax legislation, referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or the Tax Act. The Tax Act introduced significant changes to the US tax laws. The Tax Act, among other things, contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including but not limited to the reduction of the corporate tax rate from a top rate of 35% to a flat rate of 21%, limitation of the tax deduction for interest expense to 30% of adjusted earnings (except for certain small businesses), limitation of the deduction for net operating losses to 80% of current year taxable income in respect of losses arising in taxable years beginning after 2017 and elimination of net operating loss carrybacks, one time taxation of offshore earnings at reduced rates regardless of whether they are repatriated, immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, and modifying or repealing many business deductions and credits (including reducing the business tax credit for certain clinical testing expenses incurred in the testing of certain drugs for rare diseases or conditions generally referred to as \"orphan drugs\"). Any federal net operating loss carryovers for taxable years beginning after 2017 will be carried forward indefinitely pursuant to the Tax Act. The Tax Act also limits deductions for compensation in excess of $1 million, which could impact our ability to deduct such corporate expenses.  We continue to examine the impact the Tax Act may have on our business. Notwithstanding the reduction in the federal corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the Tax Act is uncertain and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected.. We may be exposed to liabilities under the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other U.S. and foreign anti-corruption anti-money laundering, export control, sanctions, and other trade laws and regulations, and any determination that we violated these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are subject to export control and import laws and regulations, including the U.S. Export Administration Regulations, U.S. Customs regulations, and various economic and trade sanctions regulations administered by the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control. We are also subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt. 65. Table of Contents. Practices Act of 1977, as amended, or FCPA, the U.S. domestic bribery statute contained in 18 U.S.C. § 201, the U.S. Travel Act, the USA PATRIOT Act, the United Kingdom Bribery Act 2010, the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002, and possibly other anti-bribery and anti-money laundering laws in countries outside of the United States in which we conduct our activities. Anti-corruption laws are interpreted broadly and prohibit companies and their employees and third-party intermediaries from authorizing, promising, offering, providing, soliciting, or accepting, directly or indirectly, improper payments or benefits to or from any person whether in the public or private sector. As we commercialize XHANCE and any other product candidates that we may develop, we may engage with third-party manufacturers and collaborators who operate abroad and are required to obtain certain necessary permits, licenses and other regulatory approvals with respect to our business. Our activities abroad create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors, even though they may not always be subject to our control. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees, consultants, sales agents and distributors. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and the employees, consultants, sales agents, or distributors of our company may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible, even if we do not explicitly authorize such activities.. Noncompliance with anti-corruption, anti-money laundering, export control, sanctions, and other trade laws could subject us to whistleblower complaints, investigations, sanctions, settlements, prosecution, other enforcement actions, disgorgement of profits, significant fines, damages, other civil and criminal penalties or injunctions, suspension and/or debarment from contracting with certain persons, the loss of export privileges, reputational harm, adverse media coverage and other collateral consequences. If any subpoenas or investigations are launched, or governmental or other sanctions are imposed, or if we do not prevail in any possible civil or criminal litigation, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially harmed. Responding to any action will likely result in a materially significant diversion of management's attention and resources and significant defense and compliance costs and other professional fees. In addition, the U.S. government may seek to hold us liable for successor liability FCPA violations committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire. As a general matter, enforcement actions and sanctions could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights or if our intellectual property rights are inadequate to protect our technology, XHANCE or our other product candidates, our competitors could develop and commercialize technology similar to ours, and our competitive position could be harmed.. Our commercial success will depend in large part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent and other intellectual property protection in the United States and other countries with respect to our proprietary technology and products. We rely on trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws, and confidentiality and other agreements with employees and third parties, all of which offer only limited protection. Our strategy is to seek patent protection for XHANCE, our other product candidates and their compositions, their methods of use and processes for their manufacture, and any other aspects of inventions that are commercially important to the development of our business.. The patent prosecution process is expensive and time-consuming, and we and any future licensors and licensees may not be able to apply for or prosecute patents on certain aspects of our product candidates or delivery technologies at a reasonable cost, in a timely fashion, or at all. We may not have the right to control the preparation, filing and prosecution of patent applications, or to maintain the rights to patents licensed to third parties. Therefore, these patents and applications may not be prosecuted and enforced in a manner consistent with the best interests of our business. It is also possible that we or any future licensors or licensees, will fail to identify patentable aspects of inventions made in the course of development and commercialization activities before it is too late to obtain patent protection on them. Therefore, our patents and applications may not be prosecuted and enforced in a manner consistent with the best interests of our business. It is possible that defects of form in the preparation or filing of our patents or patent applications may exist, or may arise in the future, such as with respect to proper priority claims, inventorship, claim scope or patent term adjustments. If any future licensors or licensees, are not fully cooperative or disagree with us as to the prosecution, maintenance, or enforcement of any patent rights, such patent rights could be compromised and we might not be able to prevent third parties from making, using, and selling competing products. If there are material defects in the form or preparation of our patents or patent applications, such patents or applications may be invalid or unenforceable. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods, and know-how. Any of these outcomes could impair our ability to prevent competition from third parties, which may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and operating results.. 66. Table of Contents. The patent positions of pharmaceutical companies generally are highly uncertain, involve complex legal and factual questions and have in recent years been the subject of much litigation. As a result, the issuance, scope, validity, enforceability and commercial value of any patents that issue, are highly uncertain. The steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to preclude misappropriation of our proprietary information or infringement of our intellectual property rights, both inside and outside the United States. Further, the examination process may require us to narrow the claims of pending patent applications, which may limit the scope of patent protection that may be obtained if these applications issue. The rights that may be granted under future issued patents may not provide us with the proprietary protection or competitive advantages we are seeking. If we are unable to obtain and maintain patent protection for our technology and products, or if the scope of the patent protection obtained is not sufficient, our competitors could develop and commercialize technology and products similar or superior to ours, and our ability to successfully commercialize our technology and products may be impaired.. As of December 31, 2017, we owned a total of 43 U.S. patents and 43 pending U.S. patent applications. These U.S. patents will expire between 2020 and 2030. With respect to these patent rights, we do not know whether any of our patent applications will result in issued patents or, if any of our patent applications do issue, whether such patents will protect our technology and drugs, in whole or in part, or whether such patents will effectively prevent others from commercializing competitive technologies and products. There is no guarantee that any of our issued or granted patents will not later be found invalid or unenforceable.. The laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States or vice versa. For example, European patent law restricts the patentability of methods of treatment of the human body more than United States law does. Publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind the actual discoveries, and patent applications in the United States and other jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing or in some cases not at all, until they are issued as a patent. Therefore, we cannot be certain that we were the first to make the inventions claimed in our pending patent applications, that we were the first to file for patent protection of such inventions, or that we have found all of the potentially relevant prior art relating to our patents and patent applications that could invalidate one or more of our patents or prevent one or more of our patent applications from issuing. Even if patents do successfully issue and even if such patents cover our product candidates, third parties may initiate oppositions, interferences, re-examinations, post-grant reviews, inter partes reviews, nullification or derivation actions in court or before patent offices or similar proceedings challenging the validity, enforceability, or scope of such patents, which may result in the patent claims being narrowed or invalidated. Furthermore, even if they are unchallenged, our patents and patent applications may not adequately protect our intellectual property, provide exclusivity for our product candidates, or prevent others from designing around our claims. Any of these outcomes could impair our ability to prevent competition from third parties.. Furthermore, the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its inventorship, scope, validity or enforceability, and our owned and licensed patents may be challenged in the courts or patent offices in the United States and abroad. Such challenges may result in loss of exclusivity or freedom to operate or in patent claims being narrowed, invalidated or held unenforceable, in whole or in part, which could limit our ability to stop others from using or commercializing similar or identical technology and drugs, or limit the duration of the patent protection of our technology and drugs. Given the amount of time required for the development, testing and regulatory review of new drug candidates, patents protecting such candidates might expire before or shortly after such candidates are commercialized. As a result, our owned and licensed patent portfolio may not provide us with sufficient rights to exclude others from commercializing drugs similar or identical to ours.. We may become involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or the patents of our licensors, which could be expensive, time consuming and unsuccessful.. Competitors may infringe our patents or the patents of any party from whom we may license patents from in the future. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time-consuming. In a patent litigation in the United States, defendant counterclaims alleging invalidity or unenforceability are commonplace. Grounds for a validity challenge could be an alleged failure to meet any of several statutory requirements, for example, lack of novelty, obviousness or non-enablement. Grounds for an unenforceability assertion could be an allegation that someone connected with prosecution of the patent withheld relevant information from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, or made a misleading statement, during prosecution. The outcome following legal assertions of invalidity and unenforceability during patent litigation is unpredictable. A court may decide that a patent of ours or of any of our future licensors is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology in question. In addition, to the extent that we have to file patent litigation in a. 67. Table of Contents. federal court against a U.S. patent holder, we would be required to initiate the proceeding in the state of incorporation or residency of such entity. With respect to the validity question, for example, we cannot be certain that no invalidating prior art exists. An adverse result in any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated, found unenforceable, or interpreted narrowly, and it could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Defense of these claims, regardless of their merit, would involve substantial litigation expense and would be a substantial diversion of employee resources from our business. If a defendant were to prevail on a legal assertion of invalidity or unenforceability, we would lose at least part, and perhaps all, of the patent protection on one or more of our products or certain aspects of the Optinose EDS technology. Such a loss of patent protection could compromise our ability to pursue our business strategy.. Interference proceedings brought by the USPTO may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patents and patent applications or those of our collaborators or licensors. An unfavorable outcome could require us to cease using the technology or to attempt to license rights to it from the prevailing party. Our business could be harmed if a prevailing party does not offer us a license on terms that are acceptable to us. Litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and distraction of our management and other employees. We may not be able to prevent, alone or with any of our future licensors, misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect those rights as fully as in the United States. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock.. Moreover, we may be subject to a third-party pre-issuance submission of prior art to the USPTO or other foreign patent offices, or become involved in opposition, derivation, reexamination, inter partes review, post-grant review or interference proceedings challenging our patent rights or the patent rights of others. An adverse determination in any such submission, proceeding or litigation could reduce the scope of, or invalidate, our patent rights, allow third parties to commercialize our technology or drugs and compete directly with us, without payment to us, or result in our inability to manufacture or commercialize drugs without infringing third-party patent rights. In addition, if the breadth or strength of protection provided by our patents and patent applications is threatened, it could dissuade companies from collaborating with us to license, develop, or commercialize current or future product candidates.. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights throughout the world.. Filing, prosecuting and defending patents on XHANCE, our other product candidates and the Optinose EDS technology throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive, and our intellectual property rights in some countries outside the United States may be less extensive than those in the United States. In addition, the laws and practices of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights, especially those relating to life sciences, to the same extent as federal and state laws in the United States. For example, novel formulations of existing drugs and manufacturing processes may not be patentable in certain jurisdictions, and the requirements for patentability may differ in certain countries, particularly developing countries. Also, some foreign countries, including European Union countries, India, Japan and China, have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled under certain circumstances to grant licenses to third parties. Consequently, we may have limited remedies if patents are infringed or if we are compelled to grant a license to a third party, and we may not be able to prevent third parties from practicing our inventions in all countries outside the United States, or from selling or importing products made using our inventions into or within the United States or other jurisdictions. This could limit our potential revenue opportunities. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection to develop their own products, and may export otherwise infringing products to territories where we have patent protection, but where enforcement is not as strong as that in the United States. These products may compete with our products in jurisdictions where we do not have any issued patents and our patent claims or other intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent them from competing with us in these jurisdictions. Furthermore, the prevalence of counterfeit medicines, which is one that has been deliberately and fraudulently mislabeled as to its identity and source, is a significant and growing industry-wide issue that could impact our revenue and our reputation for which we may have limited or no recourse. Accordingly, our efforts to enforce intellectual property rights around the world may be inadequate to obtain a significant commercial advantage from our intellectual property. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate in these foreign countries and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially meaningful.. 68. Table of Contents. Obtaining and maintaining our patent protection depends on compliance with various procedural, document submission, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements.. Periodic maintenance fees, renewal fees, annuity fees and various other governmental fees on patents and applications are required to be paid to the USPTO and various governmental patent agencies outside of the United States in several stages over the lifetime of the patents and applications. The USPTO and various non-U.S. governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other similar provisions during the patent application process and after a patent has issued. There are situations in which non-compliance can result in abandonment or lapse of the patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction.. Third parties may initiate legal proceedings alleging that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, the outcome of which could be uncertain and could harm our business.. Our commercial success depends upon our ability to develop, manufacture, market and sell XHANCE and our other product candidates and use our proprietary technologies without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. While our product candidates are in preclinical studies and clinical trials, we believe that the use of our product candidates in these preclinical studies and clinical trials falls within the scope of the exemptions provided by 35 U.S.C. Section 271(e) in the United States, which exempts from patent infringement liability activities reasonably related to the development and submission of information to the FDA. As XHANCE and our other product candidates progress toward commercialization, the possibility of a patent infringement claim against us increases. For instance, our use of the Section 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway for the follow-on indication of chronic sinusitis or any of our other product candidates will require us to provide a Paragraph IV certification to the NDA and patent holders of the RLD pursuant to the Hatch-Waxman Act if the RLD is covered by Orange Book-listed patents. If the NDA or patent holder files a patent infringement lawsuit against us within 45 days of its receipt of notice of our certification, the FDA is prevented from approving our Section 505(b)(2) NDA until the earliest of 30 months, expiration of the patents, settlement of the lawsuit or a court decision in the infringement case that is favorable to us. Accordingly, we may invest significant time and expense in the development of our product candidates only to be subject to significant delay and expensive and time-consuming patent litigation before our product candidates may be commercialized. There can be no assurance that our product candidates do not infringe other parties' patents or other proprietary rights and competitors or other parties may assert that we infringe their proprietary rights in any event.. There is considerable intellectual property litigation in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries. We may become party to, or threatened with, future adversarial proceedings or litigation regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our product candidates, including interference or derivation proceedings before the USPTO. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications owned by third parties exist in the fields in which we are developing our drug candidates. Third parties may assert infringement claims against us based on existing patents or patents that may be granted in the future.. If we are found to infringe a third party's intellectual property rights, we could be required to obtain a license from such third party to continue commercializing our product candidates. However, we may not be able to obtain any required license on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Even if a license can be obtained on acceptable terms, the rights may be non-exclusive, which could give our competitors access to the same technology or intellectual property rights licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license, we may be unable to effectively market product candidates based on our technology, which could limit our ability to generate revenue or achieve profitability and possibly prevent us from generating revenue sufficient to sustain our operations. Alternatively, we may need to redesign our infringing products, which may be impossible or require substantial time and monetary expenditure. Under certain circumstances, we could be forced, including by court order, to cease commercializing our product candidates. In addition, in any such proceeding or litigation, we could be found liable for substantial monetary damages, potentially including treble damages and attorneys' fees, if we are found to have willfully infringed. A finding of infringement could prevent us from commercializing our product candidates or force us to cease some of our business operations, which could harm our business. Any claims by third parties that we have misappropriated their confidential information or trade secrets could have a similar negative impact on our business.. The cost to us in defending or initiating any litigation or other proceeding relating to patent or other proprietary rights, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial, and litigation would divert our management's attention. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could compromise our commercialization efforts, delay our research and. 69. Table of Contents. development efforts and limit our ability to continue our operations. There could also be public announcements of the results of the hearing, motions, or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive those results to be negative, it could cause the price of shares of our common stock to decline.. Our competitors may be able to circumvent our patents by developing similar or alternative technologies or products in a non-infringing manner.. Our competitors may seek to market generic versions of any of our approved products by submitting ANDAs to the FDA or new products that use our approved products as the RLD, in each case where our competitors claim that our patents are invalid, unenforceable or not infringed. Alternatively, our competitors may seek approval to market their own products that are the same as, similar to or otherwise competitive with XHANCE and any future product candidates we may develop. In these circumstances, we may need to defend or assert our patents, by means including filing lawsuits alleging patent infringement requiring us to engage in complex, lengthy and costly litigation or other proceedings. In any of these types of proceedings, a court or government agency with jurisdiction may find our patents invalid, unenforceable or not infringed. We may also fail to identify patentable aspects of our research and development before it is too late to obtain patent protection. Even if we have valid and enforceable patents, these patents still may not provide protection against competing products or processes sufficient to achieve our business objectives.. Changes in either U.S. or foreign patent law or interpretation of such laws could diminish the value of patents in general, thereby impairing our ability to protect our products.. As is the case with other pharmaceutical companies, our success is heavily dependent on intellectual property, particularly patents. Obtaining and enforcing patents in the pharmaceutical industry involve both technological and legal complexity, and it therefore is costly, time-consuming and inherently uncertain. In addition, on September 16, 2011, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the AIA, was signed into law. The AIA includes a number of significant changes to U.S. patent law, including provisions that affect the way patent applications will be prosecuted and may also affect patent litigation.. An important change introduced by the AIA is that, as of March 16, 2013, the United States transitioned to a \"first-to-file\" system for deciding which party should be granted a patent when two or more patent applications are filed by different parties claiming the same invention. A third party that files a patent application in the USPTO after that date, but before us, could therefore be awarded a patent covering an invention of ours even if we had made the invention before it was made by the third party. This will require us to be cognizant going forward of the time from invention to filing of a patent application.. Among some of the other changes introduced by the AIA are changes that limit where a patentee may file a patent infringement suit and providing opportunities for third parties to challenge any issued patent in the USPTO. This applies to all of our U.S. patents, even those issued before March 16, 2013. Because of a lower evidentiary standard necessary to invalidate a patent claim in USPTO proceedings compared to the evidentiary standard in United States federal court, a third party could potentially provide evidence in a USPTO proceeding sufficient for the USPTO to hold a claim invalid even though the same evidence would be insufficient to invalidate the claim if first presented in a district court action. Accordingly, a third party may attempt to use the USPTO procedures to invalidate our patent claims that would not have been invalidated if first challenged by the third party as a defendant in a district court action.. Depending on decisions by the U.S. Congress, the federal courts, the USPTO, or similar authorities in foreign jurisdictions, the laws and regulations governing patents could change in unpredictable ways that would weaken our ability to obtain new patents or to enforce our existing patents and patents that we might obtain in the future.. We may be subject to claims asserting that our employees, consultants, independent contractors and advisors have wrongfully used or disclosed confidential information and/or alleged trade secrets of their current or former employers or claims asserting ownership of what we regard as our own intellectual property.. Although we try to ensure that our employees, consultants, independent contractors and advisors do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that these individuals or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed confidential information and/or intellectual property, including trade secrets or other proprietary information, of the companies that any such individual currently or formerly worked for or provided services to. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property. 70. Table of Contents. rights or personnel. Even if we are successful in defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to our business.. In addition, while we require our employees and contractors who may be involved in the conception or development of intellectual property to execute agreements assigning such intellectual property to us, we may be unsuccessful in executing such an agreement with each party who, in fact, conceives or develops intellectual property that we regard as our own. The assignment of intellectual property rights may not be self-executing or the assignment agreements may be breached, and we may be forced to bring claims against third parties, or defend claims that they may bring against us, to determine the ownership of what we regard as our intellectual property.. Intellectual property rights do not prevent all potential threats to competitive advantages we may have.. The degree of future protection afforded by our intellectual property rights is uncertain because intellectual property rights have limitations, and intellectual property rights may not adequately protect our business or permit us to maintain our competitive advantage.. The following examples are illustrative:. <U+25AA> Others may be able to make drug and device components that are the same as or similar to XHANCE and our other product candidates but that are not covered by the claims of the patents that we own or have exclusively licensed;. <U+25AA> We or any of our licensors or collaborators might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by the issued patent or pending patent application that we own or have exclusively licensed;. <U+25AA> We or any of our licensors or collaborators might not have been the first to file patent applications covering certain of our inventions;. <U+25AA> Others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies without infringing our intellectual property rights;. <U+25AA> The prosecution of our pending patent applications may not result in granted patents;. <U+25AA> Granted patents that we own or have licensed may not cover our products or may be held not infringed, invalid or unenforceable, as a result of legal challenges by our competitors;. <U+25AA> With respect to granted patents that we own or have licensed, especially patents that we either acquire or in-license, if certain information was withheld from or misrepresented to the patent examiner, such patents might be held to be unenforceable;. <U+25AA> Patent protection on our product candidates may expire before we are able to develop and commercialize the product, or before we are able to recover our investment in the product;. <U+25AA> Our competitors might conduct research and development activities in the United States and other countries that provide a safe harbor from patent infringement claims for such activities, as well as in countries in which we do not have patent rights, and may then use the information learned from such activities to develop competitive products for sale in markets where we intend to market our product candidates;. <U+25AA> We may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable;. <U+25AA> The patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business; and. <U+25AA> We may choose not to file a patent application for certain technologies, trade secrets or know-how, and a third party may subsequently file a patent covering such intellectual property.. Should any of these events occur, they could significantly harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, our business and competitive position would be harmed.. In addition to seeking patent protection for certain aspects of our product candidates and delivery technologies, we also consider trade secrets, including confidential and unpatented know-how important to the maintenance of our competitive position. We protect trade secrets and confidential and unpatented know-how, in part, by customarily. 71. Table of Contents. entering into non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with parties who have access to such knowledge, such as our employees, outside scientific and commercial collaborators, CROs, CMOs, consultants, advisors and other third parties. We also enter into confidentiality and invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and consultants that obligate them to maintain confidentiality and assign their inventions to us. Despite these efforts, any of these parties may breach the agreements and disclose our proprietary information, including our trade secrets, and we may not be able to obtain adequate remedies for such breaches. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known, including through a potential cybersecurity breach, or may be independently developed by competitors.. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally disclosed or misappropriated a trade secret is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, some courts in the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions are less willing or unwilling to protect trade secrets. If any of our trade secrets were to be lawfully obtained or independently developed by a competitor, we would have no right to prevent them from using that technology or information to compete with us. If any of our trade secrets were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our competitive position would be harmed.. If our trademarks are not adequately protected, then we may not be able to build name recognition in our markets of interest and our business may be adversely affected.. We expect to rely on trademarks as one means to distinguish any of our product candidates that are approved for marketing from the products of our competitors. OPTINOSE®, XHANCETM and Breath Powered® are trademarks or registered trademarks of ours in the United States. Our trademarks may be challenged, infringed, circumvented or declared generic or determined to be infringing on other marks. We may not be able to protect our rights to these trademarks or may be forced to stop using these names, which we need for name recognition by potential partners or customers in our markets of interest. If we are unable to establish name recognition based on our trademarks, we may not be able to compete effectively.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock and Our Status as a Public Company. An active market for our common stock may not develop.. We completed our initial public offering in October 2017, but prior to that offering there was no market for our shares of common stock. Although our common stock is listed on Nasdaq, an active market for our common stock may not develop.  The lack of an active market may impair your ability to sell your shares at the time you wish to sell them or at a price that you consider reasonable. The lack of an active market may also reduce the fair market value of your shares. Further, an inactive market may also impair our ability to raise capital by selling shares of our common stock and may impair our ability to enter into strategic collaborations or acquire companies or products by using our shares of common stock as consideration.. The price of our common stock may be volatile and you may lose all or part of your investment.. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. In addition to the factors discussed in this \"Risk Factors\" section and elsewhere in this 10-K, these factors include:. <U+25AA> our ability to successfully commercialize XHANCE;. <U+25AA> any delay in our regulatory approval or filings for XHANCE for a follow-on indication for the treatment of chronic sinusitis or any other product candidate we may develop, and any adverse development or perceived adverse development with respect to the applicable regulatory authority's review of such filings, including without limitation the FDA's issuance of a \"refusal to file\" letter, a request for additional information, or a CRL;. <U+25AA> the success of competitive products or technologies;. <U+25AA> adverse regulatory actions with respect to our product candidates, including the failure to receive regulatory approval, or our competitors' products or product candidates;. <U+25AA> actual or anticipated changes in our growth rate relative to our competitors;. <U+25AA> announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or divestitures, strategic collaborations, joint ventures, collaborations or capital commitments;. 72. Table of Contents. <U+25AA> the commencement, enrollment or results of planned clinical trials of our product candidates or any future clinical trials we may conduct, or any changes generally in the development status of our product candidates or those of our competitors;. <U+25AA> regulatory or legal developments in the United States and other countries;. <U+25AA> the outcome of any investigations or regulatory scrutiny of our operations or litigation that may be brought against us;. <U+25AA> developments or disputes concerning patent applications, issued patents or other proprietary rights;. <U+25AA> the recruitment or departure of key personnel;. <U+25AA> the level of expenses related to any of our product candidates or clinical development programs;. <U+25AA> actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results;. <U+25AA> the number and characteristics of our efforts to in-license or acquire additional product candidates or products;. <U+25AA> introduction of new products or services by us or our competitors;. <U+25AA> failure to meet the estimates and projections of the investment community or financial guidance that we may otherwise provide to the public;. <U+25AA> actual or anticipated changes in estimates as to financial results, development timelines or recommendations by securities analysts;. <U+25AA> actual or anticipated changes in estimates as to development timelines that we may provide to the public;. <U+25AA> variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us;. <U+25AA> fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us;. <U+25AA> share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares;. <U+25AA> announcement or expectation of additional financing efforts;. <U+25AA> sales of our common stock by us, our insiders or our other stockholders;. <U+25AA> significant lawsuits, including patent or stockholder litigation;. <U+25AA> changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems;. <U+25AA> market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors;. <U+25AA> general political, economic, industry and market conditions;. <U+25AA> investors' general perception of our company and our business;. <U+25AA> publication of research reports about us, our competitors or our industry, or positive or negative recommendations or withdrawal of research coverage by securities or industry analysts; and. <U+25AA> other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control.. In addition, the stock market in general, and pharmaceutical companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. The realization of any of the above risks or any of a broad range of other risks stated above could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. A significant portion of our total outstanding shares are restricted from resale but may be sold into the market in the near future. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall, even if our business is doing well.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. If our stockholders sell, or the market perceives that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell, substantial. 73. Table of Contents. amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly.. As of March 1, 2018, there were 37,865,740 outstanding shares of our common stock. Various shareholders who held shares of our common stock before our October 2017 initial public offering are currently restricted from selling their shares for a 180-day period, which is until the close of the market on April 9, 2018, pursuant to a contractual lock-up agreements with the underwriters and/or pursuant to the terms of our Second Amended and Restated Shareholders' Agreement.  The representatives of the underwriters may, in their sole discretion and at any time or from time to time before the termination of the 180-day period, release all or any portion of the securities subject to lock-up agreements. Holders of an aggregate of 30,482,155 shares of our common stock have rights, subject to specified conditions, that require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders.  If we were to register the resale of these shares, they could be freely sold in the public market.  Additionally, these shares are also eligible for sale without registration under Rule 144, subject to volume limitations applicable to affiliates. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline.. Future issuances of our common stock or rights to purchase common stock, including pursuant to our equity incentive plans, could result in additional dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders and could cause our stock price to fall.. We expect that we may require additional capital in the future to execute our business plan. To raise capital, we may sell substantial amounts of common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock. These future issuances of common stock or common stock-related securities, together with the exercise of outstanding options, warrants and any additional shares issued in connection with acquisitions, if any, may result in material dilution to our investors. Such sales may also result in material dilution to our existing stockholders, and new investors could gain rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock.. Our principal stockholders and management own a majority of our stock and are able to exert significant control over matters subject to stockholder approval, which could prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions.. Our executive officers, directors, beneficial owners of 5% or more of our capital stock and their respective affiliates, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 82.2% of our outstanding common stock as of March 1, 2018.   Entities associated with Avista Capital Partners II, L.P., or Avista, our largest stockholder, collectively hold as a group approximately 48.6% of our outstanding common stock as of March 1, 2018. As a result, Avista can significantly influence the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendments of our organizational documents, or approval of any merger, sale of assets or other major corporate transaction. This may prevent or discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or offers for our common stock that you may feel are in your best interest. The interests of Avista may not always coincide with your interests or the interests of other stockholders and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders, including seeking a premium value for their common stock. For instance, under the terms of our fourth amended and restated certificate of incorporation, neither Avista nor any of its respective representatives on our board of directors are required to offer us any transaction opportunity of which they become aware, and they could take any such opportunity for themselves or offer it to other companies in which they have an investment, unless that opportunity is expressly offered to a person serving on our board of directors solely in his or her capacity as one of our directors. These actions might affect the prevailing market price for our common stock. In addition, because Avista and certain of our other principal stockholders have held their shares for several years, they may be more interested in selling our company to an acquiror than other investors, or they may want us to pursue strategies that deviate from the interests of other stockholders. Such concentration of ownership control may also:. <U+25AA> delay, defer or prevent a change in control;. <U+25AA> entrench our management and/or the board of directors; or. <U+25AA> impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us that other stockholders may desire.. We may also take actions that our other stockholders do not view as beneficial, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and cause the value of your investment to decline.. 74. Table of Contents. Some provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects that could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management.. Provisions in our fourth amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us or increase the cost of acquiring us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders, or remove our current management. These include provisions that :. <U+25AA> permit our board of directors to issue up to five million shares of preferred stock, with any rights, preferences and privileges as it may designate, which issuance could result in the loss of voting control by other stockholders;. <U+25AA> provide that our board of directors will be classified into three classes with staggered, three-year terms and that, subject to the rights of Avista to remove its respective director nominees with or without cause, directors may only be removed for cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of outstanding shares of our capital stock;. <U+25AA> subject to any director nomination rights afforded Avista, provide that all vacancies on our board of directors, including as a result of newly created directorships, may, except as otherwise required by law, be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of directors then in office, even if less than a quorum;. <U+25AA> following the date that Avista ceases to hold a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock, require that any action to be taken by our stockholders must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and not be taken by written consent;. <U+25AA> provide that, with the exception of director nominees submitted by Avista pursuant to our Stockholders Agreement, dated October 2, 2017 with Avista, stockholders seeking to present proposals before a meeting of stockholders or to nominate candidates for election as directors at a meeting of stockholders must provide advance notice in writing, and also specify requirements as to the form and content of a stockholder's notice;. <U+25AA> require that the amendment of certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation relating to anti-takeover measures may only be approved by a vote of 662/3% of our outstanding common stock;. <U+25AA> require that the amendment of our bylaws be approved by the affirmative vote of a majority of directors then in office or 662/3% of our outstanding common stock entitled to vote thereon;. <U+25AA> not provide for cumulative voting rights, thereby allowing the holders of a majority of the shares of common stock entitled to vote in any election of directors to elect all of the directors standing for election; and. <U+25AA> provide that special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by the chairman or vice chairman of our board of directors, our chief executive officer, a majority of our board of directors or, for so long as Avista holds a controlling ownership interest in our common stock, by the holders of a majority of our outstanding common stock.. These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, who are responsible for appointing the members of our management. Under our fourth amended and restated certificate of incorporation, we have elected not to be governed by Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law until such time that Avista ceases to own 15% or more of our capital stock. Our fourth amended and restated certificate of incorporation does, however, contain a provision that generally mirrors Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, except that it excludes Avista and its affiliates from the definition of \"interested stockholder.\" At such time that Avista ceases to own 15% or more of our capital stock, we will be governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions may discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring us or merging with us whether or not it is desired by or beneficial to our stockholders. Under Section 203, a corporation may not, in general, engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, prior to the time the stockholder has become an interested stockholder, the board of directors has approved either the business combination or the transaction which resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder.. These provisions of our fourth amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law could have the effect of discouraging potential acquisition proposals and delaying or preventing a. 75. Table of Contents. change in control. They could also have the effect of discouraging others from making tender offers for our common stock, including transactions that may be in your best interests or provide an opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock. These provisions could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock.. Our certificate of incorporation also provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees.. Our fourth amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; any action asserting a breach of fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders; any action asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, our certificate of incorporation or our bylaws; or any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Our fourth amended and restated certificate of incorporation also provides that the United States District Court for the District of Delaware and any appellate courts thereof will be the exclusive forum for resolving any such complaint for which subject matter jurisdiction of such claim is vested exclusively in the federal courts of the United States of America. These choice of forum provisions may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and other employees. Alternatively, if a court were to find the choice of forum provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions.. We may fail to qualify for continued listing on Nasdaq which could make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares.. We list our common stock on The Nasdaq Global Market. We will need to satisfy the continued listing requirements of The Nasdaq Stock Market, LLC, or Nasdaq, for inclusion on The Nasdaq Global Market to maintain such listing, including, among other things, the maintenance of a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share and stockholders' equity of at least $10.0 million. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain compliance with the continued listing requirements or that our common stock will not be delisted from Nasdaq in the future. If our common stock is delisted by Nasdaq, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including:. <U+25AA> a limited availability of market quotations for our securities;. <U+25AA> reduced liquidity with respect to our securities;. <U+25AA> a determination that our shares are a \"penny stock,\" which will require brokers trading in our shares to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our shares;. <U+25AA> a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and. <U+25AA> a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which might cause our stock price and trading volume to decline.. Because we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our capital stock in the foreseeable future, capital appreciation, if any, will be your sole source of gain and you may never receive a return on your investment.. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock, and you should not rely on an investment in our common stock to provide dividend income. We currently intend to retain all of our future earnings, if any, to. 76. Table of Contents. finance the growth and development of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of the Note Purchase Agreement precludes us from paying dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future.. We may be subject to securities litigation, which is expensive and could divert our management's attention.. As we operate in the pharmaceutical industry, we may be especially vulnerable to volatility in the market price of our common stock, especially to the extent that various factors affect the common stock of companies in our industry. In the past companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business, and could also require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments or to settle litigation.. We are an \"emerging growth company\" and intend to take advantage of reduced disclosure and governance requirements applicable to emerging growth companies, which could result in our common stock being less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, and we are eligible to and intend to take advantage of some of the exemptions from reporting requirements applicable to other public companies, but not to emerging growth companies, including, but not limited to, an exemption from the auditor attestation requirement of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure about executive compensation arrangements pursuant to the rules applicable to smaller reporting companies and no requirement to seek non-binding advisory votes on executive compensation or golden parachute arrangements. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of (1) the beginning of the first fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of our initial public offering, or January 1, 2023, (2) the beginning of the first fiscal year after our annual gross revenue is $1.07 billion or more, (3) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities and (4) the end of any fiscal year in which the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeded $700.0 million as of the end of the second quarter of that fiscal year.. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act also provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, for complying with new or revised accounting standards. An emerging growth company can therefore delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. However, we have chosen to \"opt out\" of such extended transition period and, as a result, we will comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that our decision to opt out of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards is irrevocable.. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive as a result of our taking advantage of these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result of our choices, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. We may also be unable to raise additional capital as and when we need it.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to timely and accurately report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, which may adversely affect investor confidence in us and, as a result, the value of our common stock.. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, as well as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the rules and regulations of the stock market on which our common stock is listed. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. Commencing with our fiscal year ending December 31, 2018, we will be required, under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to include in our Form 10-K filing for that year a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This assessment will need to include disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that results in more than a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of annual or interim consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act also generally requires an attestation from our independent registered public accounting firm on the. 77. Table of Contents. effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. However, for as long as we remain an emerging growth company as defined in the JOBS Act, we intend to take advantage of an exemption from the independent registered public accounting firm attestation requirement.. Our compliance with Section 404's requirement to furnish a report by management requires that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. Prior to our initial public offering in October 2017, we were never required to test our internal control within a specified period, and, as a result, we may experience difficulty in meeting these reporting requirements in a timely manner. We currently do not have an internal audit function. We may not be able to complete our evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion, which could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, or other regulatory authorities.. We may identify weaknesses in our system of internal financial and accounting controls and procedures that could result in a material misstatement of our consolidated financial statements. During the evaluation and testing process, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. We cannot assure you that there will not be material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. Our internal control over financial reporting will not prevent or detect all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud will be detected.. Any failure to maintain internal control over financial reporting could severely inhibit our ability to timely and accurately report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. If we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm determines we have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting once that firm begins the testing procedures over internal controls, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, the market price of our common stock could decline, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by Nasdaq, the SEC or other regulatory authorities. Failure to remedy any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, or to implement or maintain other effective control systems required of public companies, could also restrict our future access to the capital markets.. Our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud.. We are subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC. We believe that any disclosure controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met.. These inherent limitations reflect the reality that judgments can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. If that were to happen, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by Nasdaq, the SEC or other regulatory authorities.. We have incurred and will continue to incur increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives.. Prior to the consummation of our initial public offering in October 2017, we were not subject to public company reporting obligations. We now incur significant additional legal, accounting, administrative and other costs and expenses as a public company. Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, the Exchange Act, as well as rules of the SEC and Nasdaq, for example, resulted in, and will result in further, significant initial costs to us as well as ongoing increases in our legal, audit and financial compliance costs, particularly after we are no longer an \"emerging growth company.\" In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including regulations implemented by Nasdaq and the SEC, may increase legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations and, as a result, their application in practice may. 78. Table of Contents. evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management's time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Any changes that we make to comply with these obligations may not be sufficient to allow us to satisfy our obligations as a public company on a timely basis, or at all.. The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. Our board of directors, management and other personnel need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, failure to comply with these rules and regulations might make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, or we might be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to maintain the same or similar coverage.. 79. Table of Contents"
