[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of these risks could also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or the price of our common stock. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered as a reliable indicator of future performance and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods.. 15. Risks Relating to Our Business. Our business plan depends on both increased demand for our products and services and our ability to successfully implement it.. Our business plan is predicated on continued growth in demand for our products and services. Demand for such data products and services may not grow, or may even contract, either generally or in particular geographic markets, for particular types of services or during particular time periods. A lack of demand could impair our ability to sell products and services, develop and successfully market new products and services and could exert downward pressure on prices. Any decline in prices would decrease our revenues and negatively affect our ability to generate cash for investments and other working capital needs. Our business plan assumes that potential customers and end-users will accept certain limitations that can be inherent in our product and service offerings. For example, our VHF satellite system is optimized for small packet, or narrowband, data transmissions, is subject to certain delays in the relay of messages, referred to as latencies, and may be subject to certain line-of-sight limitations between our satellites and the end-user's subscriber communicator.. Our ability to successfully implement our business plan will also depend on a number of other factors, including:. •  our ability to continue to successfully and timely introduce innovative new products and services that satisfy market demand, including new services provided via our satellite constellation, our other satellite network platforms, our terrestrial communication network platforms, and our dual-mode or multi-mode network platform products and services;. •  our ability to sell our products and services in additional countries and market verticals;. •  the ability of our various MCAs and MCPs to market and sell our products and services, and to continue to successfully develop, market, and sell additional offerings based on our products and services;. •  our ability to continue to offer our customers a diversity of satellite and terrestrial communication network platform options, including our ability to maintain and limit the effects of decreased health, in-orbit anomalies, capacity and control of our ORBCOMM VHF satellites;. •  Failure to attract new customers if end-users do not accept our products and services, or those developed and offered by our MCPs, or because the necessary regulatory or other required governmental approvals in particular countries or territories cannot be obtained or maintained;. •  the potential demand for our satellite-based AIS service or the extent to which we will be able to meet that demand. Although we believe the market for satellite-based AIS service is significant, the actual size of the market is subject to significant uncertainty; and. •  our ability to maintain competitive prices for our products and services and control costs, including the effect foreign exchange rates have on our revenue and costs.. We substantially rely on our subsidiary companies and various third parties to market and sell our products and services, and to develop and sell additional offerings utilizing our products and services. If these parties are unsuccessful in these endeavors, our business will be harmed.. To successfully develop, market, and sell our products and services, we substantially rely on our subsidiary companies, several of which are overseas joint ventures, to address particular product or services, vertical segments, or distinct market territories (we refer collectively here to our subsidiary companies as MCAs). We also substantially rely on our various third-parties, including product and service developers and providers, distributors, resellers, solution providers, and others (we refer collectively here to all such third parties as MCPs). The willingness of our existing and potential new MCPs to engage or continue to engage in our business depends on a number of factors, including whether they perceive our services to be compatible with their business objectives, whether the prices they can charge end-users will provide an adequate return, and the burden imposed by market challenges or regulatory constraints, if any. We believe that successful marketing of our products and services will depend on our ability to continue to develop and launch solutions that support the specific needs of the targeted end-users and offered at competitive pricing. The design, development and implementation of successful solutions require the commitment of substantial financial and technological resources by us and our MCPs. Certain of our MCPs are, and many potential new MCPs will be, newly formed or small ventures with limited financial resources, and such entities might not be successful in their efforts to effectively market our products and services, or to design new offerings that utilize our products and services. The inability of our MCAs and MCPs to successfully market and sell to end-users could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also believe that our success depends upon the competitive pricing of product and service offerings by us, our MCAs and our MCPs. However, we have little or no control over our MCAs and MCPs with respect to customer pricing decisions.. 16. The substantial reliance we must place on our MCAs and MCPs is inherent to our business structure, and is driven by the competitive landscape in which we operate. Thus, our revenues, profitability, liquidity and reputation could be adversely affected if both our MCAs and our MCPs are not sufficiently successful.. We have incurred net losses since our inception, other than in 2012 and 2013, and may incur additional net losses in the future. As a result, we have an accumulated deficit of $166.2 million as of December 31, 2017. We must increase our revenues at a rate faster than increases in our expenses to become profitable.. We have had annual net losses since our inception, other than in fiscal years 2012 and 2013, and as of December 31, 2017, we have an accumulated deficit of $166.2 million. Our future results will continue to reflect significant operating expenses, including expenses associated with expanding our sales and marketing efforts, maintaining the infrastructure to operate as a public company, and the ongoing depreciation, operation and maintenance of our fleet of VHF satellites and associated ground network facilities, as well as the additional facilities we own and operate in connection with our other satellite and terrestrial network platform service offerings. The continued development of our business also will require additional capital expenditures for, among other things, the costs relating to the installation and maintenance of additional gateway earth stations and associated satellite network ground facilities around the world relating to our VHF satellite system, as well as expenditures for the ongoing maintenance, repair, upgrade, or expansion of other network facilities that we own and operate. In addition, we may acquire additional companies and such acquisitions may result in increases in intangible assets which are subject to amortization and potential impairment. Accordingly, as we make these capital and acquisition investments, our future results will include greater depreciation and amortization expense which reflect the full cost of acquiring these new assets and we may incur additional operating losses and net losses in the future.. In order to become profitable, we must continue to increase revenue at a rate faster than increases in expenses. Revenue will depend on the success of our resellers and acceptance of our products and services by end-users in current markets, as well as in new geographic and industry markets. We may not be able to sustain such profitability, if achieved.. We face substantial competition from existing and potential competitors in the telecommunications industry, including numerous terrestrial and satellite-based network systems with greater resources, which could reduce our market share and revenues.. Competition in the telecommunications and industrial IoT industries is intense, fueled by rapid, continuous technological advances and alliances between industry participants seeking to capture significant market share. We face competition from numerous existing and potential alternative telecommunications products and services provided by various companies, including sophisticated two-way satellite-based data and voice communication services and digital cellular services, such as GSM, 3G, 4G, LTE, 5G, two-way terrestrial services such as Low-Power Wide-Area Network (\"LPWAN\") and a diverse group of industrial IoT providers aggressively pricing their products and services to gain market share. The rigorously competitive environment in which we operate can have a substantial negative influence on pricing flexibility, gross profit margins and market share, both for our products and services and the offerings of our MCPs. For example, we face ongoing market pressures from several global satellite communication services operators that offer mobile satellite data products and services that directly compete with our products and services. New and advanced technology which can perform essentially the same functions as our messaging and products and services, direct broadcast satellites, new deployed satellites of competing low-earth orbit satellite systems and other forms of wireless transmission, are in various stages of development by others in the industry. The telematics industry includes numerous companies developing technologies to compete with the products and services of our subsidiaries. These technologies are being developed, supported and rolled out by entities that may have significantly greater resources than we do. These technologies could adversely impact the demand for our products and services. Research and development by others may lead to technologies that render some or all of our services non-competitive or obsolete in the future. In addition, a continuing trend toward consolidation and strategic alliances in the telecommunications industry, as well as the possibility that new low earth orbit \"mega\" constellations may be deployed at some future date by companies such as OneWeb and SpaceX, could give rise to significant new competitors.  Furthermore, some foreign competitors may benefit from government subsidies, or other protective measures, afforded by their home countries. Some of these competitors may provide more efficient or less expensive products or services than we are able to provide, which could reduce our market share and adversely affect our revenues and business.. Certain of our existing and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and distribution resources than we do. Furthermore, these competitors may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies and offer customers more attractive terms than we can.. 17. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to effect suitable investments, alliances and acquisitions and our ability to successfully integrate the businesses we acquire.. Since mid-2011 we have expanded our business both organically and through several key acquisitions. On an ongoing basis, we review investment, alliance and acquisition prospects that would complement our existing product offerings, augment our market coverage or enhance our technological capabilities. However, we cannot assure that we will be able to identify and consummate suitable investment, alliance or acquisition transactions in the future.  Our prospects and ability to strategically pursue possible new acquisitions or joint ventures are subject to our ability to:. •  evaluate the goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets for impairment;. •  when such assets are found to be impaired, they will be written down to estimated fair value, with a charge against earnings;. •  successfully engage with our existing MCAs and MCPs, and develop new MCAs and MCPs; and. •  use all of our capabilities to expand our business across existing and new verticals and key markets throughout the world by driving new customers to our array of products and services offerings.. Even if we are able to successfully identify and consummate suitable acquisition transactions, the consummation of such acquisitions may result in:. •  issuances of equity securities dilutive to our existing shareholders;. •  the incurrence of substantial debt and assumption of unknown liabilities;. •  the potential loss of key employees from the acquired company;. •  amortization expenses related to intangible assets; and. •  the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns.. Furthermore, the integration of acquired businesses and their products and services may be expensive, time-consuming, a strain on our resources and present certain challenges, including:. •  impairment of relationships with employees and customers;. •  inability to maintain brand recognition of acquired businesses;. •  inability to maintain corporate controls, procedures and policies;. •  failure of acquired features, functions, products or services to achieve market acceptance; and. •  potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses.. Defects, errors or other insufficiencies in our products or services could result in end-users rejecting our offerings, which could damage our reputation and harm our financial condition.. We must continue to successfully collaborate with our MCAs and MCPs to develop and deploy innovative, reliable, and cost-effective products and services that keep pace with rapidly changing markets and customer requirements. These efforts, which often entail complex or accelerated development cycles, can result in offerings that have undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when subsequent versions are introduced.  Any such errors of defects could result in the disruption or failure of our products or services, or even personal injury or property damage. Any such occurrence could damage our reputation as well as the reputation of respective MCAs or MCPs, and result in lost customers, lost revenue, diverted development resources, and increased service, recall and warranty costs, and even liability claims. In addition, it is possible that our products could become the subject of a product recall as a result of a product defect. We do not maintain recall insurance, so any recall could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to the direct expenses of liability claim awards, recalls and litigation, a claim, recall or litigation might cause us adverse publicity, which could harm our reputation and compromise our ability to sell our products in the future.. Because we depend on a few significant customers for a substantial portion of our revenues, the loss or decline or slowdown in growth in business in any of these customers could seriously harm our business.. Significant customers such as JB Hunt, Walmart, Caterpillar, Komatsu, Hub Group Inc., Onixsat and Satlink S.L. collectively, represented 31.9% and 26.5% of our revenues in 2017 and 2016, respectively, and are expected to represent a substantial portion of our revenues in the near future. As a result, the loss of any one of these customers, or decline or slowdown in the growth in business of. 18. these customers, which could occur at any time, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, because service revenue depends either partially or entirely on the usage of our products and services by our customers and end users, the decline or slowdown in the growth of usage patterns of these customers which could occur at any time and with or without a reduction in the number of our billable subscribers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We could be adversely affected if we are not successful in expanding and managing our business outside of the United States and there are numerous risks inherent to our international operations that are beyond our control.. Our business and our business objectives are inherently worldwide. As a result, we are subject to certain political risks, such as changes in international and foreign jurisdictional law and regulation, varying applicable telecommunication industry and governmental standards, tariffs or taxes and other trade barriers, exchange controls, expropriation, and political and economic instability, including fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies. Certain of these risks may be greater in developing countries or regions, where economic, political or diplomatic conditions may be significantly more volatile than those commonly experienced in the United States and other industrialized countries.. Unless we are able to continue expanding our business, particularly in markets outside of the United States, our ability to grow our business could be adversely affected. Although we currently have MCAs registered to do business in more than forty-five (45) countries outside of the United States, we also must substantially rely on MCPs to establish and grow our business in many overseas markets. In some countries, due to market conditions, foreign ownership restrictions, or other business or legal constraints, we are compelled or even required to rely on MCPs to obtain and maintain necessary local regulatory and other approvals for some or all of the products and services sought to offered. And of course, we and/or our MCAs or MCPs may not be successful in obtaining and maintaining the necessary regulatory and other approvals in some countries or territories.  Moreover, even if those approvals are obtained and maintained, efforts to develop markets and/or distribution networks within any given country may not be successful. Certain of our MCPs are, or are likely to be, newly formed or small ventures with limited or no operational history and limited financial resources, and any such entities may not be successful in their efforts to secure adequate financing and to continue operating. In addition, in certain countries and territories outside the United States, we must currently rely on MCPs to operate and maintain various components of our system, such as several of the gateway earth stations for our VHF satellite system. These entities may not be successful in operating and maintaining such components of our communications system and may not have the same financial incentives as we do to maintain those components in good repair.. Our business is affected by the regulatory laws and policies of the countries in which we operate. Due to foreign ownership constraints or other restrictions in certain jurisdictions around the world, we often rely on MCPs to obtain and maintain necessary local regulatory and other governmental approvals. In addition, in certain countries regulatory frameworks may be rudimentary or in an early stage of development, which can make it difficult or impossible in such jurisdictions to secure the necessary approvals to operate in those locations. There can be no assurance that we, our MCAs, or our MCPs will be successful in obtaining or maintaining the necessary approvals for countries that may offer desirable new market opportunities and, if these efforts are not successful, we will be unable to do business in such countries. In addition, efforts to implement network facilities in certain foreign countries may be complicated, constrained, or even prohibited due to legal requirements we must comply with in the United States or other jurisdictions that may contravene with legal requirements in the new country markets we seek access to.  Furthermore, even if the necessary regulatory and other governmental approvals can be obtained in these countries, the cost of developing, deploying, operating and maintaining required local network infrastructure, or other costs associated with ongoing regulatory compliance, may be prohibitive, which could impair our ability to expand our product and service offerings in such areas and undermine our value for potential customers in these markets. Finally, our ability to provide services in these countries is also constrained by national laws and policies regarding the installation and operation of in-country network facilities that manage and control the flow of communication traffic coming to and from the respective national territories.  Our inability to offer our products and services in one or more important new markets could have a negative impact on our business.. While expanding our international operations would advance our growth, it would also increase numerous risks, including:. •  difficulties in penetrating new markets due to established and entrenched competitors;. •  difficulties in developing products and services that are tailored to the needs of local customers;. •  difficulties in developing products and services at competitive prices due to foreign exchange fluctuations;. •  lack of local acceptance or knowledge of our products and services;. •  lack of recognition of our products and services;. •  unavailability of or difficulties in establishing relationships with local customers and distributors;. 19. •  significant investments, including the development, deployment and maintenance of dedicated network facilities in certain countries with laws that require such facilities to be installed and operated within their jurisdiction to connect the traffic coming to and from their territory;. •  unpredictable events resulting in economic or political instability in certain countries;. •  changes in laws and policies affecting trade and investment in certain jurisdictions;. •  exposure to varying or inconsistently enforced legal standards, including intellectual property protection and foreign state ownership laws;. •  difficulties in obtaining required regulatory or other governmental approvals;. •  difficulties in enforcing legal rights, even those provided for under applicable law;. •  local domestic ownership requirements;. •  changing and conflicting local regulatory or legal requirements; and. •  excessive tax, import duty, or other governmental fee requirements;. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our consolidated financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, however a portion of our costs and expenses occur in foreign currencies. Fluctuations in the value of these foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar could result in substantial changes in reported earnings and operating results due to the foreign currency impact upon translation of these transactions into U.S. dollars.  Further, any appreciation of the U.S. dollar may also negatively affect our growth by increasing the cost of our products and services in foreign countries.  In the future, we may choose to employ various hedging strategies to partially mitigate these foreign exchange risks, including the use of forward exchange contracts.  These strategies may not be effective in protecting us against the effects of fluctuations from movements in foreign exchange rates. Our failure to mitigate these foreign currency exchange risks could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If we become subject to unanticipated domestic or foreign tax or fee liabilities, it could materially increase our costs.. We operate in various tax jurisdictions. We believe that we have complied in all material respects with our obligations to pay taxes and fees in these jurisdictions. However, our position is subject to review and possible challenge by the authorities of these jurisdictions. If the applicable authorities were to challenge successfully our current tax or fee positions, or if there were changes in the manner in which we conduct our activities, or changes in the interpretation or application of existing laws, we could become subject to material unanticipated tax or fee liabilities. We may also become subject to additional tax, tariff, or fee liabilities as a result of changes in laws, which could in certain circumstances, have a retroactive effect.. Economic, political and other conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results or operations or financial condition.. A significant portion of our revenues are generated from customers located in foreign countries. Some country economies have been impacted by government agencies and unstable economic cycles. Governments have often changed monetary, taxation, credit, tariff and other policies to influence the course of their country's economy. For example, government actions to control inflation have at times involved setting wage and price controls, blocking access to bank accounts, imposing exchange controls and limiting imports. Our customers may be adversely affected by exchange rate movements; exchange control policies; expansion or contraction of the local economy; inflation; tax policies; other economic political, diplomatic and social developments; interest rates; liquidity of domestic capital and lending markets; and social and political instability.. Extreme events such as a man-made or natural disaster, earthquakes, severe weather or other climate change related events could diminish or prelude our ability to provide communications service.. Extreme events or the collateral effects of such events could damage or destroy some or all or of communication system network platforms. Such events could impair or completely preclude our ability to provide service to our customers in the affected region(s) on a temporary, prolonged, or even permanent basis.  Even if network facilities that we own and operate were not affected by any extreme event, some or all of the communication services we provide could be disrupted if an extreme event damages or destroys third party networks that we utilize, or disrupts our ability to connect to those networks. Our operations or the operations of our MCPs with facilities in various locations may be interrupted by extreme events and affect our ability to provide service and products for a period of time. Such failure or service disruptions could materially harm our business and results of operations.. 20. We rely on a limited number of manufacturers for many of our products and devices. If we are unable to, or cannot find third parties to, manufacture a sufficient quantity of our products and devices at a reasonable price, the prospects for our business will be negatively impacted.. The development and availability on a timely basis of relatively inexpensive products and devices are critical to the successful commercial operation of our system. We rely on contract manufacturers to produce these products and devices that we market and sell, including those we offer under our own brand names. Our solutions subsidiaries rely on a few contract manufacturers. Our customers may not be able to obtain a sufficient supply of products and devices at price points or with functional characteristics and reliability that meet their needs. An inability to successfully develop and manufacture products and devices that meet the needs of customers and are available in sufficient numbers and at prices that render our services cost-effective to customers could limit the acceptance of our system and potentially affect the quality of our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business may be materially and adversely affected if any of our direct or indirect relationships with these contract manufacturers is terminated or modified. If our arrangements with third party manufacturers are terminated our search for additional or alternate manufacturers could result in significant delays, added expense and an inability to maintain or expand our customer base. Any of these events could require us to take unforeseen actions or devote additional resources to provide our services and could harm our ability to compete effectively.. In particular, significant interruptions, discontinuation, slowdown or loss of the supply of subscriber communicators from our vendor Sanmina Corporation (\"Sanmina\") or a change in our commercial relationship with Sanmina could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our business is heavily dependent on Sanmina, a contract manufacturer with significant operations in Mexico, for the manufacture of our subscriber communicators that we design and sell. Consequently, significant interruptions, discontinuation, slowdown or loss of Sanmina's manufacturing and supply of products will negatively affect our ability to grow, provide reliable service and could have a material adverse effect on our business. While we currently have a good relationship with Sanmina, we cannot provide any assurance that our future commercial relationship or arrangements with Sanmina will not change in a manner that has an adverse effect on our business. In addition, any change in trading agreements between the United States and Mexico could have a significant impact on our business.. If our arrangements with third party manufacturers, including Sanmina, are terminated or expire, our search for additional or alternate manufacturers could result in significant delays in customers activating products on our communications system, added expense for our customers and our inability to maintain or expand our customer base.. We may be subject to legal proceedings that could adversely affect our business.. We may be subject to legal claims or regulatory matters involving stockholder, consumer, antitrust, intellectual property infringement, product liability and other issues. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, including increases in demands for attention on our management team, and unfavorable rulings could occur. An unfavorable ruling could include money damages. If an unfavorable ruling were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations for the period in which the ruling occurred or future periods. See also \"Note 15  -  Commitments and Contingencies\" in our audited consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Our business relies on intellectual property, some of which third parties own and we, our MCAs, our MCPs, or our respective customers may inadvertently infringe upon their patents and proprietary rights and we have been and may in the future become subject to claims that our products violate the patent or intellectual property rights of others, which could be costly and disruptive to us.. Many entities, including some of our competitors, currently (or may in the future) hold patents and other intellectual property rights that cover or affect products or services related to those that are offered by us, our MCAs, our MCPs, or our respective customers. We cannot assure you that we are aware of all intellectual property rights that any such products or services may infringe upon. As a result, any such products or services may become subject to intellectual property infringement claims or litigation. The defense of intellectual property suits is both costly and time-consuming, even if ultimately successful, and may divert management's attention from other business concerns. An adverse determination in litigation to which we may become a party could, among other things:. •  subject us, our MCAs, our MCPs, or our respective customers to significant liabilities to third parties, including treble damages;. •  require disputed rights to be licensed from a third party for royalties that may be substantial;. 21. •  require cessation of the use of important technology;. •  prohibit the sale of some or all products and services; or. •  require the redesign of products in such a way as to avoid infringing upon others' patents.. We cannot estimate the extent to which we, our MCAs, our MCPs, or our respective customers may be required in the future to obtain intellectual property licenses, or the availability and cost of any such licenses. To the extent that we are required to pay royalties to third parties to whom we are not currently making payments, these increased costs of doing business could negatively affect our profitability or liquidity.. If a competitor holds intellectual property rights, it may not allow use its intellectual property at any price, which could adversely affect our competitive position.. Because we operate our business in the highly regulated telecommunications industry, we may be subjected to increased regulatory restrictions which could disrupt our service or increase our operating costs.. Telecommunications product and service providers are subject to extensive regulation under the laws of various national and international regulatory bodies, all of which are subject to change, which may occur from time to time without prior notice. These rules and policies, among other things, establish technical parameters for the operation of facilities and subscriber communicators, determine the permissible uses of facilities and subscriber communicators, and otherwise establish the terms and conditions pursuant to which we, or MCAs and our MCPs must conduct our respective businesses.  Additionally, under some circumstance, these rules and policies may require us, our MCAs and our MCPs to suspend or terminate the operation or use of network facilities we operate or utilize, or otherwise alter or disrupt our ability to provide services. Any such events could significantly disrupt or preclude the operation of some or all of our communications systems. These rules and policies may also impose regulatory constraints on the use of subscriber communicators within certain countries or territories. They may also cause delays in the marketing of our services and products, may impose costly fees and procedures on us, our MCAs or our MCPs, and may give a competitive advantage to larger companies that we compete with. Possible future changes to regulations and policies in the countries in which we operate may result in additional regulatory requirements or restrictions on the services and equipment we provide, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Although we believe that we, our MCAs, and our MCPs have obtained all the regulatory or other governmental approvals required to conduct our respective businesses as they are currently operated, it may not be possible to obtain, modify or maintain such approvals in the future. Moreover, future changes in applicable regulatory or governmental approval requirements may result in disruptions of ability to provide some or all of the products and services we offer, or alternatively result in added operational costs, which could materially harm our business.. We do not currently maintain in-orbit or other insurance for our OG1 or OG2 satellites.. We do not currently maintain in-orbit insurance coverage for our OG1 or OG2 satellites to address the risk of potential systemic anomalies, failures, collisions with our satellites or other satellite/debris, or catastrophic events affecting the existing satellite constellation. An uninsured failure of one or more of our satellites could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We do not maintain third-party liability insurance with respect to our satellites. Accordingly, we have no insurance to cover any third-party damages that may be caused by any of our satellites. If we experience significant uninsured losses, such events could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Certain areas of our business rely upon third-party wireless network service providers, which are potential competitors, to deliver existing and developing services.. Certain services we provide rely on our relationships with third party wireless network service providers, including Verizon, AT&T, T-Mobile, Telefonica, Orange, Rogers and Vodafone with respect to cellular communications and Inmarsat with respect to ORBCOMM L-Band satellite services. Our ability to provide these services and grow our business depends on continued access to these wireless networks and our ability to purchase sufficient capacity.  In addition, our services depend on the continuing reliability and security of these third party networks, which could be adversely affected by errors, defects, interrupted service and/or a breach of the network security.  While our existing agreements have multiple year terms certain of these wireless network service providers are and, in the future, could become competitors.  This competition could adversely affect our relationship and their willingness to sell us airtime at commercially reasonable rates.. 22. Significant interruptions, discontinuation or loss of services provided by Inmarsat plc and its subsidiaries or a change in our commercial relationship with the Inmarsat group could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The revenues generated by our provision of L-Band mobile satellite network services are materially dependent on the satellite network services provided to us by Inmarsat group. Consequently, any significant interruptions, discontinuation or loss of those services due to the temporary or permanent failure of Inmarsat satellites or associated Inmarsat terrestrial network facilities would negatively affect our ability to provide reliable service and could have a material adverse effect on our L-Band mobile satellite product and service revenues. Additionally, although we currently enjoy a stable and beneficial business relationship with Inmarsat, we cannot provide any assurance that our future commercial relationship or arrangements with Inmarsat will not change in a manner that has an adverse effect on our business.. Significant interruptions, discontinuation, slowdown or loss of Application Specific Integrated Circuit, or ASIC, development and manufacturing from vendor S3 Group (\"S3\") or a change in our commercial relationship with S3 could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We have invested significantly in building the ASIC, with S3, an ASIC developer and manufacturer. Consequently, the inability for S3 to effectively build and supply an ASIC could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, significant interruptions, discontinuation, slowdown or loss of S3 services for development, manufacturing and delivery of ASICs will negatively affect our ability to grow, provide reliable service and could have a material adverse effect on our business. While we currently have a good relationship with S3, we cannot provide any assurance that our future commercial relationship or arrangements with S3 will not change in a manner that has an adverse effect on our business.. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis could be impaired.. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 and the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, and The Nasdaq Stock Market, or Nasdaq. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. We perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner, or if we are unable to maintain proper and effective internal controls, we may not be able to produce timely and accurate financial statements, and we may conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective. If that were to happen, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by Nasdaq, the SEC or other regulatory authorities. Maintaining effective internal controls over financial reporting is necessary for us to produce reliable financial statements. If we fail to maintain effective controls over financial reporting in the future, it could result in a material misstatement of our financial statements that would not be prevented or detected on a timely basis and which could cause investors and other users to lose confidence in our financial statements.. Risks Related to our Technology. Our satellites are subject to significant operating risks due to various types of potential anomalies and potential impacts of space debris or other spacecrafts.. Satellites utilize highly complex technology and operate in the harsh environment of space and, accordingly, are subject to significant operational risks while in orbit. These risks include malfunctions, or \"anomalies\", that have and may continue to occur in our satellites. In addition, satellites have a limited life capacity and they could become compromised over their designated operational life span.  Some of the principal satellite anomalies include:. •  Mechanical and electrical failures due to manufacturing error or defect, including:. •  Mechanical failures that degrade the functionality of a satellite, such as the failure of solar array panel drive mechanisms, rate gyros or momentum wheels;. •  Antenna failures and defects that degrade the communications capability of the satellite;. •  Circuit failures that reduce the power output of the solar array panels on the satellites;. •  Failure of the battery cells that power the payload and spacecraft operations during daily solar eclipse periods;. •  Power system failures that result in a shut-down or loss of the satellite;. 23. •  Avionics system failures, including GPS, that degrade or cause loss of the satellite;. •  Altitude control system failures that degrade or cause the inoperability of the satellite;. •  Transmitter or receiver failures that degrade or cause the inability of the satellite to communicate with subscriber communicator units or gateway earth stations;. •  Communications system failures that affect overall system capacity;. •  Satellite computer or processor re-boots or failures that impair or cause the inoperability of the satellites; and. •  Radio frequency interference emitted internally or externally from the spacecraft affecting the communication links.. •  Equipment degradation during the satellite's lifetime, including:. •  Degradation of the batteries' ability to accept a full charge;. •  Degradation of solar array panels due to radiation;. •  General degradation resulting from operating in the harsh space environment;. •  Degradation or failure of reaction wheels;. •  Degradation of the thermal control surfaces;. •  Degradation and/or corruption of memory devices; and. •  Propulsion system failures that degrade or cause the inability to reposition the satellite.. •  Deficiencies of control or communications software, including:. •  Failure of the charging algorithm that may damage the satellite's batteries;. •  Problems with the communications and messaging servicing functions of the satellite;. •  Limitations on the satellite's digital signal processing capability that limit satellite communications capacity; and. •  Problems with the fault control mechanisms embedded in the satellite.. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, anomalies in some of the categories described above. The effects of these anomalies include, but are not limited to, failure of the satellite, degraded communications performance, reduced power available to the satellite in sunlight and/or eclipse, battery overcharging or undercharging and limitations on satellite communications capacity. Some of these effects may be increased during periods of greater message traffic and could result in our system requiring more than one attempt to send messages before they get through to our satellites. Although these multiple re-try effects do not result in lost messages, they could lead to increased messaging latencies for the end-user and reduced throughput for our system. We consider a satellite \"failed\" only when it can no longer provide any communications service, and we do not intend to undertake further efforts to return it to service. See \"ORBCOMM Communications System  -  System Status  -  ORBCOMM Network Capacity\" for a description of our network capacity. While we have already implemented a number of system adjustments we cannot assure you that these actions will succeed or adequately address the effects of any anomalies in a timely manner or at all.. Collisions with space debris or other spacecraft could materially affect system performance and our business. Our satellites operate at LEO altitudes, in a regime populated by other operational satellites, defunct satellites and other cataloged debris, and debris that is too small to be tracked, and do not have the ability to actively maneuver to avoid space debris or other satellites. Two major events have increased the LEO debris population: a deliberate Chinese ASAT test in 2007 and an accidental collision in 2009 between an operational Iridium satellite and a non-operational Russian satellite. While ORBCOMM does coordinate with the Joint Space Operations Center as well as with other government and commercial spacecraft operators to limit the risk of collision, such risk cannot be fully eliminated.. While certain software deficiencies may be corrected remotely, most, if not all, of the satellite anomalies or debris collision damage cannot be corrected once the satellites are placed in orbit. See \"ORBCOMM Communications System  -  System Status\" for a description of the operational status and anomalies that affect our satellites. We may experience additional anomalies in the future, whether of the types described above or arising from the failure of other systems or components, and operational redundancy may not be available upon the occurrence of such an anomaly.. If a satellite fails, we would record an impairment charge in our statement of operations, which would have the effect of fully reducing the net book value of that satellite listed in our operations statement to a zero value.  Any such impairment charges would depress our net income for the reporting period in which the failure occurs.. 24. Our products and services could fail to perform or perform at reduced levels of service because of technological malfunctions, satellite failures or deficiencies or events outside of our control, which would seriously harm our business and reputation.. Our products and services are exposed to the risks inherent in a large-scale, complex telecommunications system employing advanced technology. Any disruption to our services, information systems or communication networks or those of third parties into which our network connects could result in the inability of our customers to receive our services for an indeterminate period of time. Satellite anomalies and other technical and operational deficiencies of our communications system described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K could result in system failures or reduced levels of service. In addition, certain components of our system are located in foreign countries, and as a result, are potentially subject to governmental, regulatory or other actions in such countries which could force us to limit the operations of, or completely shut down, components of our system, including gateway earth stations or subscriber communicators. Any disruption to our services or extended periods of reduced levels of service could, and increased latencies in our satellite network delivering messages have and could continue to, cause us to lose customers or revenue, result in delays or cancellations of future implementations of our products and services, result in failure to attract customers or could result in litigation, customer service or repair work that would involve substantial costs and distract management from operating our business. The failure of any of the diverse and dispersed elements of our system, including our satellites, our network control center or backup control center, our gateway earth stations, our gateway control centers or our subscriber communicators, to function and coordinate as required could render our system unable to perform at the quality and capacity levels required for success. Any system failures, repeated product failures, shortened product life or extended reduced levels of service could reduce our sales, increase costs or result in warranty or liability claims and seriously harm our business.. Some of the hardware and software we use in operating our gateway earth stations was designed and manufactured over 15 years ago and could be more difficult and expensive to service, upgrade or replace.. Some of the hardware and software we use in operating our gateway earth stations was designed and manufactured over 15 years ago and portions are becoming obsolete. As they continue to age, they may become less reliable and will be more difficult and expensive to service, upgrade or replace. Although we maintain inventories of some spare parts, it nonetheless may be difficult or impossible to obtain all necessary replacement parts for the hardware. Our business plan contemplates updating or replacing some of the hardware and software in our network, however, the age of our existing hardware and software may present us with technical and operational challenges that complicate or otherwise make it not feasible to carry out our planned upgrades and replacements, and the expenditure of resources, both from a monetary and human capital perspective, may exceed our estimates. Without upgrading and replacing our equipment, obsolescence of the technologies that we use could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and liquidity.. Technical or other difficulties with our gateway earth stations could harm our business.. The ongoing operations of our satellite constellation rely on the functionality of our gateway earth stations, some of which are owned and maintained by third parties. While we believe that the overall health of the majority of our gateway earth stations remains stable, we have and may continue to experience technical difficulties or parts obsolescence with our gateway earth stations which negatively impact service in the region covered by that gateway earth station. Certain problems with these gateway earth stations have and may continue to reduce their availability and negatively impact the performance of our system in that region. In addition, due to regulatory and licensing constraints in certain countries in which we operate, we are unable to wholly-own or majority-own some of the gateway earth stations in our system located outside the United States. As a result of these ownership restrictions, we rely on third parties to own and operate some of these gateway earth stations. If our relationship with these third parties deteriorates or where these third parties have been and may continue to be unable or unwilling to bear the cost of operating or maintaining the gateway earth stations, or if there are changes in the applicable domestic regulations that require us to give up any or all of our ownership interests in any of the gateway earth stations, our control over our satellites could be diminished and our business could be harmed.. Rapid and significant technological changes in the communications industry may impair our competitive position and require us to make significant additional capital expenditures.. The space and communications industries are subject to rapid advances and innovations in technology. We expect to face competition in the future from companies using new technologies and new satellite systems. New technology could render some or all of our systems and services obsolete or less competitive by satisfying customer demand in more attractive ways or through the introduction of incompatible standards. Particular technological developments that could adversely affect us include the deployment by our competitors of new satellites or terrestrial network platforms with greater power, coverage, flexibility, efficiency or capabilities than we can deliver. For us to keep up with technological changes and remain competitive, we may need to make significant capital expenditures. Customer acceptance of the products and services that we offer will continually be affected by technology-based differences in our product and service offerings compared to those of our competitors. New technologies may be protected by patents or other intellectual property laws and therefore may not be available to us. Any failure by us to implement new technology within our system may compromise our ability to compete.. 25. Our networks and data processing systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security risks.. We expect the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks to continue to be a critical element of our operations. Our network and those of our third-party service providers, including banks, and our customers may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses and other security problems. The data processing systems used to provide the services of our business may likewise be vulnerable. Persons who circumvent security measures could wrongfully obtain or use information on the network or cause interruptions, delays or malfunctions in our operations, or misappropriation of assets, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems, including reputational harm and litigation, caused by any breaches. Although we have implemented and intend to continue to implement security measures, these measures may prove to be inadequate and result in system failures and delays that could lower network operations center availability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The collection, storage, transmission, use and disclosure of user data and personal information could give rise to liabilities or additional costs as a result of laws, governmental regulations and evolving views of personal privacy rights.. We transmit, and in some cases store, end user data, including potential personal information. In jurisdictions around the world, personal information is becoming increasingly subject to legislation and regulations intended to protect consumers' privacy and security. The interpretation of privacy and data protection laws and regulations regarding the collection, storage, transmission, use and disclosure of such information in some jurisdictions is unclear and evolving. These laws may be interpreted and applied in conflicting ways from country to country and in a manner that is not consistent with our current data protection practices. Complying with these varying international requirements could cause us to incur additional costs and change our business practices. Because our services are accessible in many foreign jurisdictions, some of these jurisdictions may claim that we are required to comply with their laws, even where we have no local entity, employees or infrastructure. We could be forced to incur significant expenses if we were required to modify our products, our services or our existing security and privacy procedures in order to comply with new or expanded regulations. In addition, if end users allege that their personal information is not collected, stored, transmitted, used or disclosed appropriately or in accordance with our privacy policies or applicable laws, we could have liability to them, including claims and litigation resulting from such allegations. Any failure on our part to protect end users' privacy and data could result in a loss of user confidence, hurt our reputation and ultimately result in the loss of users.. The failure of our information technology systems could disrupt our business operations which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The operation of our business depends on our information technology systems. We rely on our information technology systems to effectively manage, among other things, our subsidiaries' customer interface as well as business data, communications, supply chain, inventory management, customer order entry and order fulfillment, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, human resources benefits and payroll management, complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements and other processes and data necessary to manage our business. We use technology to provide secure transmission of confidential information, including our business data and customer information. To achieve our strategic objectives and to remain competitive, we must continue to develop and enhance our information systems. This may require the acquisition of equipment and software and the development, either internally or through independent consultants, of new proprietary software. Our inability to design, develop, implement and utilize, in a cost-effective manner, information systems that provide the capabilities necessary for us to compete effectively, could make us less competitive, increase our costs and adversely affect our business. The failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in, among other things, transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, loss of data and the loss of sales and customers, which could cause our business and results of operations to suffer. In addition, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including, without limitation, fire, natural disasters, power outages, systems failure, system conversions, security breaches, cyber-attacks, viruses and/or human error. In any such event, we could be required to make a significant investment to fix or replace our information technology systems, and we could experience interruptions in its ability to service our customers. Any such damage or interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Security problems with our software products, systems or services, including the improper disclosure of data, could cause increased cyber-security protections costs and general service costs, harm our reputation, and result in liability and increased expense for litigation and diversion of management time.. We process large amounts of customer information. Our software products also enable our customers to store and process data. We have included security features in our products and processes that are intended to protect the privacy and integrity of data, including confidential client data. Security for our products and processes is critical given the confidential nature of the information contained in our systems. We also rely on employees in our network operations centers, data centers, and support operations to follow our procedures when handling such information. It is possible that our security controls, our selection and training of employees, and. 26. other practices we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure of information. Any unauthorized access, computer viruses, accidental or intentional release of confidential information or other disruptions could result in increased costs, customer dissatisfaction leading to loss of customers and revenues, and fines and other liabilities. Also, such disclosure could harm our reputation and subject us to liability in regulatory proceedings and private litigation, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. Improper disclosure of corporate data could result in lawsuits or regulatory proceedings alleging damages, and perceptions that our products and services do not adequately protect the privacy of customer data and could inhibit sales of our products and services. Defending these types of claims could result in increased expenses for litigation and claims settlement and a significant diversion of our management's attention. Additionally, our software products, the systems on which the products are used, and our processes may not be impervious to intentional break-ins (\"hacking\"), cyber-attacks or other disruptive disclosures or problems, whether as a result of inadvertent third party action, employee action, malfeasance, or otherwise. Hacking, cyber-attacks or other disruptive problems could result in the diversion of our development resources, damage to our reputation, increased cyber-security protection costs and general service costs. These activities, any damage caused by them, or interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to our Debt. Our Indenture and Credit Agreement could restrict our business activities or our ability to execute our strategic objectives or adversely affect our financial performance.. On April 10, 2017 we entered into the Indenture and issued $250 million of our 8.0% senior secured notes that refinanced credit facilities in the aggregate principal amount of $160 million. On December 18, 2017 we entered into the Credit Agreement that provides for the Revolving Credit Facility of up to $25 million for working capital and general corporate purposes.. The Indenture, Credit Agreement and related security agreement contains covenants that may restrict our business activities or our ability to execute our strategic objectives, and our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under our indebtedness. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy interest payments and principal repayment at maturity, could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. The covenants in the Indenture, Credit Agreement and related security agreement limit our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness and liens, sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of our subsidiaries assets, or merge or consolidate with other companies. We must also comply with an incurrence covenant of having available liquidity and not exceeding a specific leverage ratio. Failure to comply with the covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, the noteholders or lenders, as applicable, may require repayment in full of all principal and interest outstanding. If we fail to repay such amounts, the noteholders or lenders, as applicable, may foreclose on substantially all of our assets which we have pledged. If we are unable to cure the default, we may need to repay the debt and find other sources of financing and there can be no assurance that we would have access to other sources of financing on acceptable terms, or at all.. Our substantial indebtedness may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. As of December 31, 2017, we have $250 million in aggregate principal amount of total debt from the issuance of 8.0% Senior Secured Notes. On December 18, 2017, we also entered into the Credit Agreement for a Revolving Credit Facility of up to $25 million, bearing interest at an alternative base rate or an adjusted LIBOR, plus an applicable margin of 1.50% in the case of alternative base rate loans and 2.50% in the case of adjusted LIBOR loans. If drawn, the Revolving Credit Facility would be pari passu with the $250 million 8.0% Senior Secured Notes.  Our level of indebtedness may have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and operating results, including to:. •  make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt service obligations or refinance our indebtedness;. •  require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general operating requirements;. •  limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments, debt service obligations and other general corporate requirements;. •  restrict us from making strategic acquisitions, taking advantage of favorable business opportunities or executing our strategic priorities;. •  place us at a relative competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have proportionately less debt;. •  limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate, which may adversely affect our operating results and ability to meet our debt service obligations;. •  increase our vulnerability to the current and potentially more severe adverse general economic and industry conditions;. 27. •  limit our ability, or increase the cost, to refinance our indebtedness; and. •  limit our ability to purchase the notes upon a change of control triggering event, or disposition of \"substantially all\" of our assets, as required by the indenture governing the notes;. As a result of our indebtedness, we may be restricted in pursuing desirable business activities and in our operations, and as a result our business and ability to repay the notes may be adversely affected. Despite our current level of indebtedness, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks that we and our subsidiaries face.. Risks Related to an Investment in our Common Stock. The price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile and your investment may decline in value.. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile and purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. Factors that could affect the trading price of our common stock include:. •  failure of our satellites;. •  liquidity of the market in, and demand for, our common stock;. •  changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial or subscriber growth estimates, if any, of market analysts;. •  actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations, including quarterly results;. •  our financial or subscriber growth performance failing to meet the expectations of market analysts or investors;. •  our ability to raise additional funds to meet our capital needs;. •  the outcome of any litigation by or against us, including any judgments favorable or adverse to us;. •  conditions and trends in the end markets we serve and changes in the estimation of the size and growth rate of these markets;. •  announcements relating to our business or the business of our competitors;. •  investor perception of our prospects, our industry and the markets in which we operate;. •  changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors;. •  loss of one or more of our significant customers;. •  changes in governmental regulation;. •  changes in market valuation or earnings of our competitors;. •  investor perception of and confidence in capital markets and equity investments; and. •  general economic conditions.. In addition, the stock market in general, and The Nasdaq Global Market and the market for telecommunications companies in particular, have experienced and continue to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies affected. These broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation has previously been instituted against us and could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will continue to depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If we do not continue to maintain adequate research coverage or if one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline.. 28. We are subject to anti-takeover provisions which could affect the price of our common stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our bylaws contain provisions that could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions do not permit actions by our stockholders by written consent and require the approval of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our outstanding common stock entitled to vote to amend certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws. In addition, these provisions include procedural requirements relating to stockholder meetings and stockholder proposals that could make stockholder actions more difficult. Our board of directors is classified into three classes of directors serving staggered, three-year terms and may be removed only for cause. Any vacancy on the board of directors may be filled only by the vote of the majority of directors then in office. Our board of directors has the right to issue preferred stock with rights senior to those of the common stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our board of directors. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more for our outstanding common stock. Although we believe these provisions provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and may delay or prevent an acquisition of our company.. The future issuance of additional shares of our common stock could cause dilution of ownership interests and adversely affect our stock price.. We may in the future issue our previously authorized and unissued securities, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our current stockholders. We are authorized to issue 250 million shares of common stock, of which approximately 74 million shares of voting common stock were issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2017 and approximately 16 million were available for future issuance. The potential issuance of such additional shares of common stock, whether directly or pursuant to any conversion right of any convertible securities, may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. We may also issue additional shares of our common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for common stock for capital raising or other business purposes. Future sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock.. We have issued and may issue shares of preferred stock or other securities with greater rights than our common stock.. Subject to the rules of The Nasdaq Stock Market, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock and set the terms of the preferred stock without seeking any further approval from holders of our common stock. Currently, there are 50 million shares of preferred stock authorized and approximately 37,000 shares of Series A convertible preferred stock are issued as of December 31, 2017. Any preferred stock that is issued may rank ahead of our common stock in terms of dividends, priority and liquidation premiums and may have greater voting rights than holders of our common stock.. If persons engage in short sales of our common stock, the price of our common stock may decline.. Selling short is a technique used by a stockholder to take advantage of an anticipated decline in the price of a security. A significant number of short sales or a large volume of other sales within a relatively short period of time can create downward pressure on the market price of a security. Further sales of common stock could cause even greater declines in the price of our common stock due to the number of additional shares available in the market, which could encourage short sales that could further undermine the value of our common stock. Holders of our securities could, therefore, experience a decline in the value of their investment as a result of short sales of our common stock.. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future.. We do not currently pay cash dividends on our common stock and, because we currently intend to retain all cash we generate to fund the growth of our business, we do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any future dividend payments would be within the discretion of our board of directors and would depend on a variety of factors, including our results of operations, working capital requirements, capital expenditure requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions, debt covenants, business opportunities, anticipated cash needs, provisions of applicable law and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. We may not generate sufficient cash from operations in the future to pay dividends on our common stock."
