[1] "Item 1A.RISK FACTORS. We operate in a changing environment that involves numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could materially affect our operations. The risks, uncertainties and other factors set forth below may cause our actual results, performances or achievements to be materially different from those expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements. If any of these risks or events occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. The risk factors set forth below are not exhaustive and are not the only risks that may affect our business. Our business could also be affected by additional risks not currently known to us or described below. We may amend or supplement the risk factors described below from time to time in other reports we file with the SEC in the future.. Risks Related To Our Business. We have significant indebtedness, which subjects us to restrictive covenants relating to the operation of our business.. As a result of closing the Fabrica Transaction, the expansion of our Pryor facility, and, most recently, the construction of our South Carolina facility, our indebtedness has significantly increased. At December 31, 2017, we had $170.8 million of indebtedness. In 2018, under the terms of our existing loan agreement, we anticipate making principal payments of $10.9 million and interest payments of more than $12 million. Interest payments are principally variable with our Leverage Ratio (Debt to Adjusted EBITDA) and with LIBOR rates. Operating with this amount of leverage and with variable interest rates may require us to direct a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to service debt, which reduces the funds otherwise available for operations, capital expenditures, payment of dividends, the pursuit of future business opportunities and other corporate purposes. It may also limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and our industry and may impair our ability to obtain additional financing.. The terms of our Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with U.S. Bank National Association (“U.S. Bank”) requires us to meet specified financial ratios and other financial and operating covenants, which restrict our ability to incur additional debt, place liens on our assets, make capital expenditures, effect mergers or acquisitions, dispose of assets or pay dividends in certain circumstances. The financial covenants include that we must maintain a certain debt to Adjusted EBITDA ratio, or (the “Leverage Ratio”), for a given period. Adjusted EBITDA is defined in the Credit Agreement, and is as quoted by the Company. The financial covenants also include that Fixed Charges, as defined in the Credit Agreement, will not exceed a certain ratio of Adjusted EBITDA (the “Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio’). At December 31, 2017, we were not in compliance with certain financial covenants under our Credit Agreement or our Loan Agreement for New Markets Tax Credit financing (the “NMTC Loan Agreement”), and obtained a waiver from our lenders.. On February 28, 2018, we entered into Amendment No. 7 to the Credit Agreement and on March 1, 2018 we entered into Amendment No. 4 to the NMTC Loan Agreement. Amendment No. 7 to the Credit Agreement, among other things, (i) waives any existing Events of Default (as defined in the Credit Agreement) and any Events of Default that would occur as a result of our breach of an existing financial covenant for the period ending March 31, 2018; (ii) reinstates the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement) requirement of 1.2:1.0 as of June 30, 2018; (iii) changes the Leverage Ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement) requirement to 5.5:1.0 as of June 30, 2018, and 3.5:1.0 as of September 30, 2018 and for quarter-ends thereafter; (iv) provides that principal payments will be made monthly rather than quarterly; (v) modifies the Borrowing Base (as defined in the Credit Agreement) to provide that the advance rates on eligible accounts receivable and certain items of inventory will increase through June 30, 2018, at which time such rates will revert to the rates in existence prior to this amendment to the Credit Agreement; (vi) modifies the pricing schedule applicable to interest rates and the commitment fees under the Credit Agreement to increase such rates and fees by 1.0% when the Leverage Ratio is at the highest level; and (vii) amends certain reporting requirements, including the frequency thereof. Amendment No. 4 to the NMTC Loan Agreement generally incorporates these revisions.. 10. The amendment to the Credit Agreement also established additional financial covenants, specifically that we:. ·will not permit our EBITDA, measured monthly on a trailing three month basis, for each month end beginning January 31, 2018 through and including August 31, 2018 to be less than, respectively: $4.6 million (January), $4.6 million (February), $4.9 million (March), $5.7 million (April), $6.4 million (May), $7.1 million (June), $8.0 million (July), and $9.0 million (August).. ·will not incur Capital Expenditures (as defined in the Credit Agreement), measured monthly on a trailing three month basis, for each month end beginning February 28, 2018 through and including August 31, 2018 to be less than, respectively: $3,152,000 (February), $1,450,000 (March), $1,345,000 (April), $1,089,000 (May), $1,384,000 (June), $1,506,000 (July), and $1,628,000 (August).. ·will maintain a book cash balance of not less than $500,000 at all times until March 15, 2018 and $1.30 million at all times from and after March 16, 2018.. ·will update a rolling 13-week cash flow forecast every third week, the first such forecast being filed on February 28, 2018, and will not disburse more than 110% of the forecasted disbursements for any weekly period on a cumulative basis within the three-week windows between updates, and will not allow net cash flows to be less than 90% of the net cash flows forecasted for any weekly period on a cumulative basis within the three-week windows.. In addition, we are required to comply with other conditions and meet certain milestones in an allocated time. Furthermore, following the most recent amendment to the Credit Agreement, we must (i) by March 15, 2018, retain consultants to assist us in formulating a strategic plan to facilitate such activities; and (ii) by June 1, 2018, initiate a strategic alternative acceptable to our lenders to facilitate repayment of our outstanding debt obligations.. Including the amendments incorporated into this amendment, our credit facilities have been amended for each of the last five quarters. If we fail to meet these financial ratios and covenants and our lenders do not waive them, we may be required to pay fees and penalties, and our lenders could accelerate the maturity of our debt and proceed against any pledged collateral and /or force us to seek alternative financing, which could adversely affect our business operations and/or liquidity. If this were to happen, we may be unable to obtain additional financing or it may not be available on terms acceptable to us.. Our indebtedness is secured by all or substantially all of our assets. Therefore, if we default on any of our debt obligations, it could result in the lenders foreclosing on our assets. In such an event, the lenders' rights to such assets would likely be superior to those of our stockholders.. We face intense competition and if we cannot successfully compete in the marketplace, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected.. The consumer market for private label tissue products is highly competitive. Many of our competitors have greater financial, managerial, sales and marketing and capital resources than we do, which may allow them to respond more quickly to new opportunities or changes in customer requirements. These competitors may also be larger in size or scope than us, which may allow them to achieve greater economies of scale or allow them to better withstand periods of declining prices and adverse operating conditions.. By promoting their branded products, brand-competitors may erode private label tissue sales. Three large companies, Proctor and Gamble, Kimberly-Clark, and Georgia Pacific, have material shares of the brand-market in the United States, and their size may allow them to achieve greater economies of scale or allow them to better withstand adverse competition, declining prices, and adverse operating conditions. As a general business observation, consumers seem to prefer branded products over private-label unless a greater value proposition is perceived, hence competition between brands and private label can be intense.. Our ability to successfully compete depends upon a variety of factors, including:. <U+25CF>aggressive pricing by competitors, which may force us to decrease prices in order to maintain market share;. <U+25CF>our ability to improve plant efficiencies and operating rates and lower average manufacturing costs;. <U+25CF>the availability, quality and cost of labor and raw materials, particularly recycled fiber; and. <U+25CF>the cost of energy.. 11. Our tissue paper products are commodity products, and if we do not maintain competitive prices, we may lose significant market share. Our ability to keep our prices at competitive levels depends in large part on our ability to control our costs. In addition, consolidation among retailers may put additional pressure on us to reduce our prices in order to maintain market share. If we are unable to effectively adjust our cost structure to address such increased competitive pressures, our sales level and profitability could be harmed and our operations could be materially adversely affected.. Increased competition in our region may affect our business.. Orchids has diversified regionally and by developing new channels and products. We anticipate continuing to diversify, but increased competition remains a significant risk. Private label manufacturers have announced greenfield capacity additions, principally in structured tissue lines, and capacity additions may always affect the existing business and/or delay inroads into new higher-end product and brand markets. Continued or increased competition from brands may also affect our business by diminishing consumer demand for private-label products or delaying our inroads into brand markets.. A substantial percentage of our net sales are attributable to three large customers, any or all of which may decrease or cease purchases at any time.. Our three largest customers, Dollar General, Walmart (including Sam’s Club) and Family Dollar (including its parent, Dollar Tree) accounted for 31%, 20% and 16%, respectively, of our converted product net sales in 2017. We expect that sales to a limited number of customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our net sales for the foreseeable future. Sales to these customers are made pursuant to purchase orders and not supply agreements. We may not be able to keep our key customers, or these customers may cancel purchase orders or reschedule or decrease their level of purchases from us. Any substantial decrease or delay in sales to one or more of our key customers would harm our sales and financial results. In particular, the loss of sales to one or more distribution centers would result in a sudden and significant decrease in our sales. If sales to current key customers cease or are reduced, we may not obtain sufficient orders from other customers necessary to offset any such losses or reductions.. We primarily use pre-consumer solid bleached sulfate paper, or SBS paper, and, to a lesser extent, virgin kraft fibers to produce parent rolls and any disruption in our supply or increase in the cost of pre-consumer SBS paper or virgin kraft could disrupt our production and harm our ability to produce tissue at competitive prices.. We do not produce any of the fiber we use to produce our parent rolls. We depend heavily on access to sufficient, reasonably priced quantities of fiber to manufacture our tissue products. Our paper mill is configured to convert recycled fiber, specifically SBS paper, and virgin kraft fiber into paper pulp for use in our paper production lines. Prices for SBS paper and virgin kraft have fluctuated significantly in the past and will likely continue to fluctuate significantly in the future, principally due to market imbalances between supply and demand. In addition, the market price of SBS fiber can also be influenced by market swings in the price of virgin pulp and other fiber grades. If either the available supply of SBS paper and/or virgin kraft diminishes or the demand for SBS paper and/or virgin kraft increases, it could substantially increase our cost of fiber, require us to purchase alternate fiber grades at increased costs, or cause a production slow-down or stoppage until we are able to identify new sources of fiber or reconfigure our pulping plant to process other available forms of paper fiber. We could experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations should the price or supply of SBS paper and/or virgin kraft be disrupted. Further, we currently obtain all of our recycled fiber from a single supplier, Dixie Pulp and Paper, Inc. (\"Dixie\") and the majority of our virgin kraft from Itochu Pulp and Paper Corp. (“Itochu”), Cmpc Usa, Inc. (“CMPC”), and Resolute FP US, Inc. (“Resolute”). If our relationship with Dixie, Itochu, CMPC or Resolute is altered or terminated for any reason, we will have to seek alternative channels to obtain our recycled and virgin kraft fiber, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to make arrangements that adequately meet our needs or on reasonable terms. Furthermore, we may not be able to pass increased fiber costs on to our customers if the market does not allow us to raise the prices of our finished products.. Fabrica’s failure to execute under the Supply Agreement could adversely affect our business.. Under the Supply Agreement with Fabrica Fabrica, we have the right to purchase up to 19,800 tons of parent rolls and equivalent converting capacity for certain specified product during each twelve-month period following the effective date of the Supply Agreement, which has an initial term of twenty years. Fabrica’s failure to execute under this agreement could result in our inability to service existing customers, thereby reducing sales volumes and profitability. A failure to execute would also harm the relationships we have established with those customers serviced under the Supply Agreement. Furthermore, Fabrica’s failure to execute under this agreement could require us to look for other sources of capacity that are less favorable to us, thereby increasing costs and reducing profits.. 12. Our foreign activities are subject to additional inherent risks.. We currently source a significant amount of our converted products from Mexico, i.e. the 19,800 tons from the Supply Agreement, and we expect to continue to do so. Accordingly, we are subject to political, legal, tax, and economic risks such as:. <U+25CF>the effects of local political, labor and economic developments and unrest;. <U+25CF>significant or abrupt changes in the applicable regulatory or legal climate;. <U+25CF>significant changes to regulations or laws or the interpretation or enforcement of them, including with respect to tax and profit sharing matters arising out of the use of outsourced suppliers;. <U+25CF>interpretations of tax codes, and resolution of tax disputes through appeal processes;. <U+25CF>exchange controls and export restrictions;. <U+25CF>currency fluctuations, particularly in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Mexican Peso;. <U+25CF>failure to maintain compliance with corruption and transparency statutes, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;. <U+25CF>laws or policies of foreign countries and the United States affecting trade, investment and taxation; and. <U+25CF>civil disturbances, war and terrorist actions.. The occurrence of any one or combination of these events, many of which are beyond our control, could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.. Increased competition and or deterioration in business conditions could adversely affect our ability to realize anticipated growth from the Fabrica Transaction.. We desired to acquire assets and certain operations from Fabrica with the expectation that the acquisition will result in various benefits for us, including, among others, a competitive manufacturing cost, business and growth opportunities, and increased revenue streams. Increased competition and/or deterioration in business conditions may limit our ability to expand upon Fabrica’s former business. As such, we may not be able to realize the synergies, goodwill, business opportunities and growth prospects anticipated in connection with the Fabrica Transaction.. Changes in the policies of our retail trade customers and increasing dependence on key retailers in developed markets may adversely affect our business.. Our products are sold in a highly competitive marketplace, which is experiencing increased concentration and the growing presence of large format retailers and discounters. With the consolidation of retail trade, especially in developed markets, we are increasingly dependent on key retailers, and some of these retailers, including the large format retailers, may have greater bargaining power than we do. They may use this leverage to demand higher trade discounts or allowances, which could lead to reduced profitability. We may also be negatively affected by changes in the policies of retail trade customers, such as inventory de-stocking, limitations on access to shelf space, and delisting of our products. If we lose a significant customer or if sales of our products to a significant customer materially decrease, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.. Excess supply in the markets may reduce the prices we are able to charge for our products.. New paper machines or new converting equipment may be built or idle machines may be activated by other paper companies, which would add more capacity to the tissue markets. Increased production capacity could cause an oversupply resulting in lower market prices for our products and increased competition, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. The availability of and prices for energy will significantly impact our business.. The production of our products requires a significant amount of energy and we rely primarily on natural gas and electricity for our energy needs. The prices of these inputs are subject to change based on many factors that are beyond our control, such as worldwide supply and demand and government regulation. In particular, natural gas prices are highly volatile. Our average price per MMBTU was $4.41 in 2017 compared to $3.92 in 2016 and $4.11 in 2015. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we consumed approximately 620,000 MMBTU of natural gas at a total cost of $2.7 million and 96.7 million kilowatt hours of electricity at a total cost of $5.8 million. If our energy costs increase, our cost of sales will increase, and our operating results may be materially, adversely affected. Furthermore, we may not be able to pass increased energy costs on to our customers if the market does not allow us to raise the prices of our finished products. If price adjustments significantly trail the increase in energy costs or if we cannot effectively hedge against these costs, our operating results may be materially adversely affected.. 13. Beginning in January 2018 and continuing through December 2019, approximately 80% of our natural gas requirements at our Pryor facility are covered by fixed-price contracts as described above in Item 1—Business, Raw Materials and Energy. The remainder of our requirements at our Pryor facility through December 2019 are expected to be to be covered under a variable rate supply agreement. Additionally, beginning in January 2018 and continuing through September 2019, approximately 70% of our natural gas requirements at our Barnwell facility are covered by fixed-price contracts. The remainder of our requirements at our Barnwell facility through September 2019 are expected to be purchased on the open market.. Failure to purchase the contracted quantity of natural gas may result in financial exposure.. As discussed above in Item 1—Business, Raw Materials and Energy, natural gas requirements at our Pryor and Barnwell facilities are purchased on the open market. A significant interruption in our parent roll production due to tornado, fire or other natural disaster, adverse market conditions or mechanical failure could reduce our natural gas requirements to a level below that of our contracted amount. If we are unable to purchase the contracted amounts and the market price at that time is less than the contracted price, we would be obligated under the terms of our agreement to reimburse an amount equal to the difference between the contracted amount and the amount actually purchased multiplied by the difference between our contract price and a price designed in the contract, which typically approximates spot price.. Our exposure to variable interest rates may affect our financial health.. Debt incurred under our existing revolving credit and most of our term loan agreements accrues interest at a variable rate. Specifically, our interest is calculated on 30-day LIBOR plus a variable margin, which is dependent on our Leverage Ratio. As of December 31, 2017, our weighted average bank debt interest rate was 7.3% compared to a weighted average interest rate of 2.6% at December 31, 2016. In addition to varying with the underlying LIBOR rates, most of our rates vary dependent on our Leverage Ratio as of the end of each prior quarter. Presently, the maximum margin added to LIBOR when the Leverage Ratio reaches 6 to 1 or higher, is 7.0%. Any increase in the interest rates on our debt would result in a higher interest expense, which would require us to dedicate more of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our debt and reduce funds available to us for our operations and future business opportunities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For more information on our liquidity, see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.\". We depend on our management team to operate the Company and execute our business plan.. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management staff, in particular Jeffrey Schoen, our Chief Executive Officer, and Rodney Gloss, our Chief Financial Officer. We have entered into employment arrangements with Jeffrey Schoen and Rodney Gloss, under which their employment is \"at will\" and, subject to certain conditions, may be terminated by either party at any time, for any reason, with or without notice. The loss of either of our executive officers or our inability to attract and retain other qualified personnel could harm our business and our ability to compete. Mr. Gloss has tendered his resignation, effective March 16, 2018.. Labor interruptions would adversely affect our business.. All of our hourly paid employees in Oklahoma are represented by the United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial & Service Workers International Union. The collective bargaining agreement with Local 5-930, which represents the Pryor paper mill workers, expired in February 2018. We are currently in negotiations and expect to have a new agreement in place in the second quarter of 2018. The collective bargaining agreement with Local 5-1480, which represents the Pryor converting facility workers, expired in June 2016. Since that time, we have been operating under the terms of an interim agreement and expect to finalize negotiations for a new contract in the second quarter of 2018.. Negotiations of new collective bargaining agreements may result in significant increases in the cost of labor or could break down and result in a strike or other disruption of our operations. If any of the preceding were to occur, it could impair our ability to manufacture our products and result in increased costs and/or decreased operating results. In addition, some of our key customers and suppliers are also unionized. Disruption in their labor relations could also have an adverse effect on our business.. 14. Our manufacturing operations may experience shutdowns due to unforeseen operational problems or maintenance outages, which may cause significant lost production which would adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.. We currently manufacture and process the majority of our tissue paper products in Pryor, Oklahoma. Any natural disaster or other serious disruption to our facilities due to tornado, fire or any other calamity could damage our capital equipment or supporting infrastructure and materially impair our ability to manufacture and process tissue paper products. Even a short-term disruption in our production output could damage relations with our customers, causing them to reduce or eliminate the amount of finished products they purchase from us. Any such disruption could result in lost sales, increased costs and reduced profits.. Furthermore, unexpected production disruptions due to any number of circumstances, including shortages of raw materials, disruptions in the availability of transportation, labor disputes and mechanical or process failures, could cause us to shut down our paper mill or our converting operation, or any part thereof.. If any part of our facilities is shut down, it may experience a prolonged start-up period, regardless of the reason for the shutdown. Those start-up periods could range from several days to several months, depending on the reason for the shutdown and other factors. The shutdown of our facilities for a substantial period of time for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. Our operations require substantial capital, and we may not have adequate capital resources to provide for all of our cash requirements.. Our operations require substantial capital. Expansion or replacement of existing facilities or equipment may require substantial capital expenditures. For example, the construction of our new world-class integrated tissue operation in Barnwell, South Carolina, which began converting production during 2016 and mill and de-inking operations in the second half of 2017, cost approximately $165 million. In 2015 in Pryor, we built a new paper machine and installed a new converting line, which cost approximately $39 million. In 2010, we built a new finished goods warehouse and installed a new converting line, which cost approximately $27 million. In 2009 and 2010, under new environmental standards we were required to build a water treatment facility costing approximately $7 million to reduce BOD and TSS from our discharge water. If our capital resources are inadequate to provide for our operating needs, capital expenditures and other cash requirements, this shortfall could have a material adverse effect on our business and liquidity.. Our business is subject to governmental regulations and any imposition of new regulations or failure to comply with existing regulations could involve significant additional expense.. Our operations are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations promulgated by federal, state and local governments. These laws and regulations impose stringent standards on us regarding, among other things, air emissions, water discharges, use and handling of hazardous materials, use, handling and disposal of waste, and remediation of environmental contamination. Any failure to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations or permit requirements may result in civil or criminal fines or penalties or enforcement actions. These may include regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring corrective measures, installing pollution control equipment or remedial actions, any of which could involve significant expenditures. Future development of such laws and regulations may require capital expenditures to ensure compliance. We may discover currently unknown environmental problems or conditions in relation to our past or present operations, or we may face unforeseen environmental liabilities in the future. These conditions and liabilities may require site remediation or other costs to maintain compliance or correct violations of environmental laws and regulations; or result in governmental or private claims for damage to person, property or the environment, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may be subject to strict liability and, under specific circumstances, joint and several liabilities for the investigation and remediation of the contamination of soil, surface and ground water, including contamination caused by other parties, at properties that we own or operate and at properties where we or our predecessors arranged for the disposal of regulated materials.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud and, as a result, our business could be harmed and current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in us, which could cause our stock price to fall.. We have completed an evaluation of our internal control systems to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal control over financial reporting in compliance with the management assessment and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In our report under Section 404, which is included in Item 9A of this report, we have concluded that our internal control over financial reporting is effective.. 15. A material weakness or significant deficiency in internal control over financial reporting could materially affect our reported financial results and the market price of our stock could significantly decline. Additionally, adverse publicity related to the disclosure of a material weakness or significant deficiency in internal controls could have a negative effect on our reputation, business and stock price. Although management's assessment and auditor's attestation may provide some level of comfort to the investing public, even the best designed and executed systems of internal controls can only provide reasonable assurance against misreported results and the prevention of fraud.. The parent roll market is a commodity market and subject to fluctuations in demand and pricing.. Overall demand for parent rolls can fluctuate due to changes in the demand for converted products and due to new paper machine start-ups. A significant reduction in demand or increase in paper making capacity can result in an over-supply of parent rolls, which could negatively affect the market price for parent rolls. A significant reduction in parent roll selling prices could reduce our net sales, decrease our profits and cause us to shut down some of our excess paper making capacity.. If we are unable to continue to implement our business strategies, our financial conditions and operating results could be materially affected.. Our future operating results will depend, in part, on the extent to which we can successfully implement our business strategies in a cost effective manner. However, our strategies are subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to successfully implement our business strategies, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected.. We may not be able to sell the capacity generated from our converting lines, including the additional capacity provided by our Barnwell facility.. We continue to focus on increasing the capacity of our twelve converting lines at our Pryor location. Additionally, the two converting lines at our Barnwell facility are believed to have added an additional 30,000 to 32,000 tons of annual capacity. However, we may not be able to sell enough of our products to fully utilize such capacity. While the winning of private label bids and new branded sales business, previously announced, are expected to contribute greatly to the utilization of this capacity, there are no assurances that the promised volumes will be ordered by the customers. If we are unable to generate the business needed to utilize the production capacity at the Barnwell facility fully, our business and projections could be adversely impacted. Furthermore, our strategy includes converting and selling more of our parent roll tonnage as converted product. Converted products sell at a higher price per ton than parent rolls and typically carry a higher margin on a tonnage basis. If we are unable to increase our sales of converted product to fully utilize the capacity from our converting lines, it could result in lost opportunity for increased margins and the need to temporarily or permanently curtail the production of one or more of our converting lines.. Risks Related To Our Common Stock. We currently do not plan to pay dividends on our Common Stock and, consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment is if the price of our Common Stock appreciates.. On February 21, 2011, our Board of Directors initiated a quarterly cash dividend. We paid dividends totaling $0.35, $1.40, and $1.40 per share in 2017, 2016 and 2015. In the second quarter of 2017, our Board of Directors considered it prudent to suspend the quarterly dividend to preserve financial flexibility and ensure capital is appropriately allocated to advance the success of our business. Additionally, as amended our Credit Agreement restricts our ability to make any dividend or other distribution payment with respect to our equity unless we have achieved a Leverage Ratio of less than 4 to 1 for two consecutive fiscal quarters and no Default or Event of Default (as defined in the Credit Agreement) exists or would exist following such payment. The amount and timing of dividend payments otherwise remains subject to the judgment and approval of the Board of Directors. The declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common stock will be based upon many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements of our businesses, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, industry practice, restrictions under our credit agreements, and other factors that the Board of Directors deems relevant. The Board of Directors retains the power to modify, suspend or cancel our dividend policy in any manner and at any time as it may in its discretion deem necessary or appropriate. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations in an amount sufficient to enable us to make distributions on our common stock.. 16. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage a takeover.. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a takeover. These provisions may:. <U+25CF>discourage, delay or prevent a change in the control of the Company or a change in our management;. <U+25CF>adversely affect the voting power of holders of common stock; and. <U+25CF>limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock.. Our future operating results may be below securities analysts' or investors' expectations, which could cause our stock price to decline.. Our revenue and income potential depends on maintaining and expanding our production capacity and realizing buyers for our additional production, and we may be unable to generate significant revenues or grow at the rate expected by securities analysts or investors. In addition, our costs may be higher than we, securities analysts or investors expect. Further, if financial leverage and related risks escalate and/or unforeseen cash flow disruptions were to occur, our stock prices could be adversely affected. If we fail to generate sufficient revenues or our costs are higher than we expect, our results of operations will suffer, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Our results of operations will depend upon numerous factors, including:. <U+25CF>the market price of our product;. <U+25CF>the cost of fiber used in producing paper;. <U+25CF>the efficiency of operations in both our paper mill and converting facility;. <U+25CF>the cost of energy.. <U+25CF>the costs of labor and maintenance;. <U+25CF>financial leverage undertaken, inclusive of its impacts upon interest expense and debt service;. <U+25CF>capital spending requirements, inclusive of impacts upon depreciation; and. <U+25CF>working capital and other cash flow management.. Our operating results in any particular period may not be a reliable indication of our future performance. In some future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, the price of our common stock will likely decline.. Our common stock has low average trading volume, and we expect that the price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially.. The average daily trading volume of our common stock in 2017 was approximately 134,000 shares. The market price for our common stock is affected by a number of factors, including:. <U+25CF>actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors;. <U+25CF>changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to achieve analysts' earnings estimates; and. <U+25CF>developments in our industry.. The stock prices of many companies in the paper products industry have experienced wide fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Because of the low trading volume, our stock price is subject to greater potential volatility. Following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Class action securities litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management resources, which could significantly harm our business.. Our directors have limited personal liability and rights of indemnification from us for their actions as directors.. Our certificate of incorporation limits the liability of directors to the maximum extent permitted by Delaware law. Delaware law provides that directors of a corporation will not be personally liable for monetary damages for breach of their fiduciary duties as directors, except liability for:. <U+25CF>any breach of their duty of loyalty to the corporation or its stockholders;. <U+25CF>acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law;. <U+25CF>unlawful payments of dividends or unlawful stock repurchases or redemptions; or. <U+25CF>any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit.. 17. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide that we will indemnify our directors and executive officers and other officers and employees and agents to the fullest extent permitted by law.. We entered into separate indemnification agreements with each of our directors and officers, which are broader than the specific indemnification provision under Delaware law. Under these agreements, we are required to indemnify them against all expenses, judgments, fines, settlements and other amounts actually and reasonably incurred, in connection with any actual, or any threatened, proceeding if any of them may be made a party because he or she is or was one of our directors or officers.. If any litigation or proceeding were pursued against any of our directors, officers, employees or agents where indemnification is required or permitted, we could incur significant legal expenses and be responsible for any resulting settlement or judgment."
