[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below and in other reports that we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The matters discussed in the following risk factors, and additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects and could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline.. We have had a history of losses and we may be unable to achieve profitability or positive cash flows in the future.. We have experienced net losses for the past five fiscal years. Generating net income and positive cash flows in the future will depend on our ability to successfully complete and execute our strategic plan and our previously announced cost reduction initiatives. There is no guarantee that we will be able to achieve profitability or positive cash flows in the future. Our inability to successfully achieve profitability and positive cash flows will likely result in our experiencing a serious liquidity deficiency and could threaten our viability.. Our financial performance is dependent on our ability to execute on our strategy, including implementing cost reduction initiatives, and achieve profitability.. Our ability to achieve our desired growth and profitability goals depends on our ability to effectively engage distribution and sales agents, develop recurring revenue streams, and improve our marketing, new product development, project execution, customer service, margin enhancement and operating expense management, as well as other factors. If we are unable to successfully execute in any of these areas or on our growth and profitability strategy, then our business and financial performance will likely be materially adversely affected.. We may not be able to obtain equity capital or debt financing necessary to fund our ongoing operations, effectively pursue our strategy and sustain our growth initiatives.. Our existing liquidity and capital resources may not be sufficient to allow us to fund our ongoing operations, effectively pursue our strategy or sustain our growth initiatives.  As of March 31, 2018, we had $9.4 million of cash and approximately $3.9 million of outstanding borrowings and only $0.1 million of remaining borrowing capacity available under our revolving credit facility, compared to $17.3 million of cash and approximately $6.6 million of outstanding borrowings and $0.2 million of remaining borrowing availability as of March 31, 2017.  If we require additional capital resources, we may not be able to obtain sufficient equity capital and/or debt financing to allow us to continue our normal course of operations or we may not be able to obtain such equity capital or debt financing on acceptable terms or conditions. Factors affecting the availability to us of equity capital or debt financing on acceptable terms and conditions include:. • Our current and future financial results and position.. • The collateral availability and softening of our otherwise unsecured assets.. • The market's, investors and lenders' view of our company, industry and products.. • The perception in the equity and debt markets of our ability to execute our business plan or achieve our operating results expectations.. • The price, volatility and trading volume and history of our common stock.. Our inability to obtain the equity capital or debt financing necessary to fund our ongoing operations or pursue our strategies could force us to scale back our operations or our sales initiatives.  If we are unable to pursue our strategy and sustain our growth initiatives, our business and operating results will be materially adversely affected.. Our financial performance is dependent on our ability to achieve growth in our average sales margins on our products.. The gross margins of our products can vary significantly, with margins ranging from 15% to 50%. While we continue to implement our strategy of transitioning to higher-margin products and reducing the material cost of our products, a change in the total mix of our sales toward lower margin products, a decrease in the margins on our products as a result of competitive pressures driving down the average selling price of our products, lower sales volumes and promotional programs to increase sales volumes could reduce our profitability and result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance.  Furthermore, average selling prices may be negatively impacted by market over-supply conditions, product feature cannibalization by competitors or component providers, low-cost non-traditional sales methods by new market entrants, and comparison of our retrofit fixture products with replacement lamp equivalents.  In a competitive lighting industry, we must be able to innovate and release new products on a regular basis with features and benefits that generate increases in average selling price or average margins.. 11. We operate in a highly competitive industry and, if we are unable to compete successfully, our revenue and profitability will be adversely affected.. We face strong competition primarily from manufacturers and distributors of energy management products and services, as well as from electrical contractors. We are also facing increased competition from manufacturers in low-cost countries.  We compete primarily on the basis of customer relationships, price, quality, energy efficiency, customer service and marketing support. Our products are in direct competition with the expanding availability of LED products, HID technology, as well as HIF products and older fluorescent technology in the lighting systems retrofit market.. Many of our competitors are better capitalized than we are, have strong customer relationships, greater name recognition, and more extensive engineering, manufacturing, sales and marketing capabilities. In addition, the LED market has seen increased convergence in recent years, resulting in our competition gaining increased market share and resources.  Competitors could focus their substantial resources on developing a competing business model or energy management products or services that may be potentially more attractive to customers than our products or services. In addition, we may face competition from other products or technologies that reduce demand for electricity. Our competitors may also offer energy management products and services at reduced prices in order to improve their competitive positions. Any of these competitive factors could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain customers, require us to lower our average selling prices in order to remain competitive, and reduce our revenue and profitability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. The success of our business depends upon our adaptation to the quickly changing market conditions in the lighting industry and on market acceptance of our lighting retrofit solutions using new LED technologies.. The market for lighting products has experienced a significant technology shift to LED lighting systems. As a result, we are focusing our business primarily on providing lighting retrofit solutions using new LED technologies in lieu of traditional HIF lighting upon which our business has historically relied.  We are also looking at utilizing our system platform as a \"digital\" or \"connected ceiling\", or a framework or network that can support the installation and integration of other business solutions on our digital platform.. As a result, our future success depends significantly upon the adoption rate of LED products within our primary markets and our ability to participate in this ongoing market trend. To be an effective participant in the growing LED market, we must keep up with the evolution of LED technology, which has been moving at a fast pace. We may be unable to successfully develop and market new LED products or services that keep pace with technological or industry changes, differentiate ourselves from our competition, satisfy changes in customer demands or comply with present or emerging government and industry regulations and technology standards. The development and introduction of new LED products may result in increased warranty expenses and other new product introduction expenses. In addition, we will likely continue to incur substantial costs to research and develop new LED products, which will increase our expenses, without guarantee that our new products and services will be commercially viable. We may also spend time and resources to develop and release new LED products only to discover that a competitor has also introduced similar new products with superior performance. Moreover, if new sources of lighting are developed, our current products and technologies could become less competitive or obsolete, which could result in reduced revenue, reduced earnings or increased losses and/or inventory and other impairment charges. Additionally, as the lighting retrofit market continues to shift to LED lighting products from HIF and other traditional lighting products, customer purchasing decisions have been delayed as they evaluate the relative advantages and disadvantages of the lighting retrofit product alternatives and wait for further decreases in the price of LED lighting products. These circumstances have led, and may continue to lead, to reduced revenue for us in the periods affected.. As we attempt to adapt our business organization to this quickly evolving market, we have been managing through significant change in our vendor supply chain as LED product portfolio and our product revenue continue to increase and we place most of our focus on this product line. We currently believe that our continuing efforts to negotiate further lower material input costs will help maintain or improve our LED product gross margins. However, we may not be able to realize the gross margin benefits in the amounts or on the timetable anticipated and we may experience higher warranty expenses in the future as we implement our manufacturing and assembly process changes. It is also possible that, as we continue to focus our sales efforts on our LED product lines, we may increase our risk of inventory obsolescence for our legacy lighting product lines or even for outmoded LED products.. Finally, in connection with our primary focus on selling our LED products, we expect our results of operations to continue to fluctuate from quarter to quarter as customers may continue to delay purchasing decisions as they evaluate their return on investment from purchasing new LED products compared to alternative lighting solutions, the pricing of LED products continues to fall and LED products continue to gain more widespread customer acceptance. Similarly, these circumstances have impacted, and may continue to adversely impact, our product gross margins and our profitability from quarter to quarter.. If we are unable to achieve market acceptance of our lighting retrofit solutions using new LED technologies or realize the expected benefits from our emphasis on promoting our LED technologies, our results of operations and financial condition will likely be materially adversely affected.. 12. The success of our LED lighting retrofit solutions depend, in part, on our ability to claim market share ahead of our competitors.. Participants in the LED market who are able to quickly establish customer relationships and achieve market penetration are likely to gain a competitive advantage as the lighting retrofit solutions offered by us and our competitors generally have a product life of several years following installation.  If we are unable to establish customer relationships and achieve market penetration in the LED market in a timely manner, we may lose the opportunity to market our LED products and services to significant portions of the lighting systems retrofit market for several years and may be at a disadvantage in securing future business opportunities from customers that have previously established relationships with one or more of our competitors.  These circumstances could reduce our revenue and profitability, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. The reduction or elimination of investments in, or incentives to adopt, LED lighting or the elimination of, or changes in, policies, incentives or rebates in certain states or countries that encourage the use of LEDs over some traditional lighting technologies could cause the growth in demand for our products to slow, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues, profits and margins.. Reductions in (including as a result of any budgetary constraints), or the elimination of, government investment and favorable energy policies designed to accelerate the adoption of LED lighting could result in decreased demand for our products and decrease our revenues, profits and margins. Further, if our products fail to qualify for any financial incentives or rebates provided by governmental agencies or utilities for which our competitors' products qualify, such programs may diminish or eliminate our ability to compete by offering products at lower prices than ours.. We are increasing our emphasis on indirect distribution channels to sell our products and services. If we are unable to attract, incentivize and retain our third-party distributors and sales agents, or our distributors and sales agents do not sell our products and services at the levels expected, our revenues could decline and our costs could increase.. We have significantly expanded the number of our manufacturer representative agencies that sell our products through distributors, many of which are not exclusive, which means that these sales agents and distributors may sell other third-party products and services in direct competition with us. Since many of our competitors use sales agents and distributors to sell their products and services, competition for such agents and distributors is intense and may adversely affect our product pricing and gross margins. Additionally, due to mismanagement, industry trends, macro-economic developments, or other reasons, our sales agents and distributors may be unable to effectively sell our products at the levels desired or anticipated. In addition, we have historically relied on direct sales to sell our products, which were often made in competition with sales agents and distributors. In order to attract and form lasting partnerships with sales agents and distributors, we will be required to overcome our historical perception as a direct sales competitor. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining sales agents and distributors and any inability to do so could have a negative effect on our ability to attract and obtain customers, which could have an adverse impact on our business.. We do not have major sources of recurring revenue and depend upon a limited number of customers in any given period to generate a substantial portion of our revenue. The loss of significant customers or a major customer could have an adverse effect on our operations.. We do not have long-term contracts with our customers that provide us with recurring revenue from period to period. As a result, we generate a substantial portion of our revenue by securing large retrofit and multi-facility roll-out projects from new and existing customers and our dependence on individual key customers can vary from period to period as a result of the significant size of some of our retrofit and multi-facility roll-out projects.  Our top 10 customers accounted for approximately 42%, 33%, and  37% respectively, of our total revenue for fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016.  In fiscal 2018, two customers accounted for 11.7% and 10.8% of total revenue.  In fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016, there was no single customer that accounted for more than 10% of our revenue. While we are making efforts to increase our sources of recurring revenue, we expect large retrofit and rollout projects to continue to remain a significant component of our total revenue. Additionally, commercial office lighting retrofits provide for single large project opportunities. As a result, we may continue to experience customer concentration in future periods. The loss of, or substantial reduction in sales to, any of our significant customers, or a major customer, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any given future period.. We increasingly rely on third-party manufacturers for the manufacture and development of our products and product components.. We have increased our utilization of third-party manufacturers for the manufacture and development of our products and product components. Our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be materially adversely affected if our manufacturers were to experience problems with product quality, credit or liquidity issues, or disruptions or delays in the manufacturing process or delivery of the finished products and components or the raw materials used to make such products and components.. 13. Adverse conditions in the global economy have negatively impacted, and could in the future negatively impact, our customers, suppliers and business.. Global economic and political uncertainty has led many customers to adopt strategies for conserving cash, including limits on capital spending. Our lighting systems are often purchased as capital assets and therefore are subject to capital availability. Uncertainty around such availability has led customers to delay purchase decisions, which has elongated the duration of our sales cycles.  Weak economic conditions in the past have adversely affected our customers' capital budgets, purchasing decisions and facilities managers and, therefore, have adversely affected our results of operations. The return to a recessionary state of the global economy could potentially have negative effects on our near-term liquidity and capital resources, including slower collections of receivables, delays of existing order deliveries and postponements of incoming orders. Our business and results of operations will be adversely affected to the extent these adverse economic conditions affect our customers' purchasing decisions.. Our products use components and raw materials that may be subject to price fluctuations, shortages or interruptions of supply.. We may be vulnerable to price increases for components or raw materials that we require for our products, including aluminum, copper, certain rare earth minerals, electronic drivers, chips, ballasts, power supplies and lamps. In particular, our cost of aluminum can be subject to commodity price fluctuation. We also source certain finished goods externally.  Limitations inherent within the supply chain of certain of these component parts, including competitive, governmental, and legal limitations, natural disasters, and other events, could impact costs, and future increases in the costs of these items could adversely affect our profitability, as there can be no assurance that future price increases will be successfully passed through to customers. Further, suppliers' inventories of certain components that our products require may be limited and are subject to acquisition by others. In the past, we have had to purchase quantities of certain components that are critical to our product manufacturing and were in excess of our estimated near-term requirements as a result of supplier delivery constraints and concerns over component availability, and we may need to do so in the future. As a result, we have had, and may need to continue, to devote additional working capital to support  component and raw material inventory that may not be used over a reasonable period to produce saleable products, and we may be required to increase our excess and obsolete inventory reserves to provide for these excess quantities, particularly if demand for our products does not meet our expectations. Also, any shortages or interruptions in supply of our components or raw materials could disrupt our operations. If any of these events occur, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. The success of our business depends upon market acceptance of our energy management products and services.. Our future success depends on continued commercial acceptance of our energy management products and services. If we are unable to convince current and potential customers of the advantages of our lighting systems and energy management products and services, then our ability to sell our lighting systems and energy management products and services will be limited. In addition, because the market for energy management products and services is rapidly evolving, we may not be able to accurately assess the size of the market, and we may have limited insight into trends that may emerge and affect our business. If the market for our lighting systems and energy management products and services does not continue to develop, or if the market does not accept our products, then our ability to grow our business could be limited and we may not be able to increase our revenue or achieve profitability.. Our ability to balance customer demand and capacity and increased employee turnover could negatively impact our business.. In addition, as customer demand for our products changes, we must be able to adjust our production capacity, including increasing or decreasing our employee workforce, to meet demand. We are continually taking steps to address our manufacturing capacity needs for our products. If we are not able to increase or decrease our production capacity at our targeted rate or if there are unforeseen costs associated with adjusting our capacity levels, our ability to execute our operating plan could be adversely affected. We have, from time to time, experienced increased employee turnover. The increased turnover has resulted in the loss of numerous long-term employees, along with their institutional knowledge and expertise, and the reallocation of certain employment responsibilities, all of which could adversely affect operational efficiencies, employee performance and retention. Such turnover has also placed a significant burden on our continuing employees, has resulted in higher recruiting expenses as we have sought to recruit and train employees, and introduced increased instability in our operations as responsibilities were reallocated to new or different employees.  To the extent that we are unable to effectively reallocate employee responsibilities, retain key employees and reduce employee turnover, our operations and our ability to execute our operating plan could be adversely affected.. Our inability to attract and retain key employees, our reseller network or manufacturer representative agencies could adversely affect our operations and our ability to execute on our operating plan and growth strategy.. We rely upon the knowledge, experience and skills of key employees throughout our organization, particularly our senior management team and our sales group that require technical knowledge or contacts in, and knowledge of, the industry. In addition, our ability to attract talented new employees, particularly in our sales group, is also critical to our success. We also depend on our. 14. distribution channels and network of manufacturer representative agencies. If we are unable to attract and retain key employees, resellers, and manufacturer representative agencies because of competition or, in the case of employees, inadequate compensation or other factors, our results of operations and our ability to execute our operating plan could be adversely affected.. Product liability claims could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We face exposure to product liability claims in the event that our energy management products fail to perform as expected or cause bodily injury or property damage. Since virtually all of our products use electricity, it is possible that our products could result in injury, whether by product malfunctions, defects, improper installation or other causes. Particularly because our products often incorporate new technologies or designs, we cannot predict whether or not product liability claims will be brought against us in the future or result in negative publicity about our business or adversely affect our customer relations. Moreover, we may not have adequate resources in the event of a successful claim against us. A successful product liability claim against us that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of our available insurance limits could require us to make significant payments of damages and could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our inability to protect our intellectual property, or our involvement in damaging and disruptive intellectual property litigation, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition or result in the loss of use of the product or service.. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as employee and third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. Our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We own United States patents and patent applications for some of our products, systems, business methods and technologies. We offer no assurance about the degree of protection which existing or future patents may afford us. Likewise, we offer no assurance that our patent applications will result in issued patents, that our patents will be upheld if challenged, that competitors will not develop similar or superior business methods or products outside the protection of our patents, that competitors will not infringe upon our patents, or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our patents. Effective protection of our United States patents may be unavailable or limited in jurisdictions outside the United States, as the intellectual property laws of foreign countries sometimes offer less protection or have onerous filing requirements. In addition, because some patent applications are maintained in secrecy for a period of time, we could adopt a technology without knowledge of a pending patent application, and such technology could infringe a third party's patent.. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. It is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise learn of our unpatented technology. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we generally require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. We cannot assure you that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, our business could be materially adversely affected.. We rely on our trademarks, trade names, and brand names to distinguish our company and our products and services from our competitors. Some of our trademarks may conflict with trademarks of other companies. Failure to obtain trademark registrations could limit our ability to protect our trademarks and impede our sales and marketing efforts. Further, we cannot assure you that competitors will not infringe our trademarks, or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our trademarks.. In addition, third parties may bring infringement and other claims that could be time-consuming and expensive to defend. Also, parties making infringement and other claims may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to provide our products, services or business methods and could cause us to pay substantial damages. In the event of a successful claim of infringement, we may need to obtain one or more licenses from third parties, which may not be available at a reasonable cost, or at all. It is possible that our intellectual property rights may not be valid or that we may infringe upon existing or future proprietary rights of others. Any successful infringement claims could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to seek licenses on unfavorable terms, prevent us from manufacturing or selling products, services and business methods and require us to redesign or, in the case of trademark claims, re-brand our company or products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. We are subject to financial and operating covenants in our credit agreement and any failure to comply with such covenants, or obtain waivers in the event of non-compliance, could limit our borrowing availability under the credit agreement, resulting in our being unable to borrow under our credit agreement and materially adversely impact our liquidity.. Our credit agreement with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association contains provisions that limit our future borrowing availability, and may from time to time require us to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. The credit agreement also contains other customary covenants, including certain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, consolidate or. 15. merge, enter into acquisitions, guarantee obligations of third parties, make loans or advances, declare or pay any dividend or distribution on our stock, redeem or repurchase shares of our stock, or pledge or dispose of assets.. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with the financial and other covenants in our credit agreement. Our failure to comply with these covenants could cause us to be unable to borrow under the credit agreement and may constitute an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of the maturity of any indebtedness then outstanding under the credit agreement, which would require us to pay all amounts then outstanding. Such an event could materially adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity. Additionally, such events of non-compliance could impact the terms of any additional borrowings and/or any credit renewal terms. Any failure to comply with such covenants would be a disclosable event and may be perceived negatively. Such perception could adversely affect the market price for our common stock and our ability to obtain financing in the future.. If our information technology systems security measures are breached or fail, our products may be perceived as not being secure, customers may curtail or stop buying our products, we may incur significant legal and financial exposure, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. Our information technology systems involve the storage of customers' personal and proprietary information in our equipment, networks and corporate systems.  Security breaches expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and increased costs for security measures, loss of revenue, damage to our reputation and potential liability.  Security breaches or unauthorized access may in the future result in a combination of significant legal and financial exposure, increased remediation and other costs, damage to our reputation and a loss of confidence in the security of our products, services and networks that could have an adverse effect upon our business.  We take steps to prevent unauthorized access to our corporate systems, however, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or sabotage systems change frequently or may be designed to remain dormant until a triggering event, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures.  In addition, hardware, software or applications we procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise network and data security.. If our information technology systems fail, or if we experience an interruption in their operation, then our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information technology systems. We rely on those systems generally to manage the day-to-day operation of our business, manage relationships with our customers, maintain our research and development data and maintain our financial and accounting records. The failure of our information technology systems, our inability to successfully maintain, enhance and/or replace our information technology systems, or any compromise of the integrity or security of the data we generate from our information technology systems, could adversely affect our results of operations, disrupt our business and product development and make us unable, or severely limit our ability, to respond to customer demands. In addition, our information technology systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from:. •earthquake, fire, flood and other natural disasters;. •employee or other theft;. •attacks by computer viruses or hackers;. •power outages; and. •computer systems, internet, telecommunications or data network failure.. Any interruption of our information technology systems could result in decreased revenue, increased expenses, increased capital expenditures, customer dissatisfaction and potential lawsuits, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. Our retrofitting process frequently involves responsibility for the removal and disposal of components containing hazardous materials.. When we retrofit a customer's facility, we typically assume responsibility for removing and disposing of its existing lighting fixtures. Certain components of these fixtures typically contain trace amounts of mercury and other hazardous materials. Older components may also contain trace amounts of polychlorinated biphenyls, or PCBs. We currently rely on contractors to remove the components containing such hazardous materials at the customer job site. The contractors then arrange for the disposal of such components at a licensed disposal facility. Failure by such contractors to remove or dispose of the components containing these hazardous materials in a safe, effective and lawful manner could give rise to liability for us, or could expose our workers or other persons to these hazardous materials, which could result in claims against us which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows or reputation.. 16. The cost of compliance with environmental laws and regulations and any related environmental liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.. Our operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing, among other things, emissions to air, discharge to water, the remediation of contaminated properties and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of, and exposure to, waste and other materials, as well as laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety. These laws and regulations frequently change, and the violation of these laws or regulations can lead to substantial fines, penalties and other liabilities. The operation of our manufacturing facility entails risks in these areas and there can be no assurance that we will not incur material costs or liabilities in the future that could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.. We expect our quarterly revenue and operating results to fluctuate. If we fail to meet the expectations of market analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock could decline substantially, and we could become subject to securities litigation.. Our quarterly revenue and operating results have fluctuated in the past and will likely vary from quarter to quarter in the future. The results of one quarter are not an indication of our future performance. Our revenue and operating results may fall below the expectations of market analysts or investors in some future quarter or quarters. Our failure to meet these expectations could cause the market price of our common stock to decline substantially. If the price of our common stock is volatile or falls significantly below our current price, we may be the target of securities litigation. If we become involved in this type of litigation, regardless of the outcome, we could incur substantial legal costs, management's attention could be diverted from the operation of our business, and our reputation could be damaged, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Our net operating loss carry-forwards provide a future benefit only if we are profitable and may be subject to limitation based upon ownership changes.. We have significant federal net operating loss carry-forwards and state net operating loss carry-forwards. While our federal and state net operating loss carry-forwards are fully reserved for, if we are unable to return to and maintain profitability, we may not be able to fully utilize these tax benefits. Furthermore, generally a change of more than 50% in the ownership of a company's stock, by value, over a three-year period constitutes an ownership change for federal income tax purposes. An ownership change may limit a company's ability to use its net operating loss carry-forwards attributable to the period prior to such change. We believe that past issuances and transfers of our stock caused an ownership change in fiscal 2007 that may affect the timing of the use of our net operating loss carry-forwards, but we do not believe the ownership change affects the use of the full amount of our net operating loss carry-forwards. As a result, our ability to use our net operating loss carry-forwards attributable to the period prior to such ownership change to offset taxable income will be subject to limitations in a particular year, which could potentially result in increased future tax liability for us.. We have material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting; if we do not remedy the material weakness or if we fail to establish and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, our business and financial results could be harmed.. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that we would prevent or detect a misstatement of our financial statements or fraud. As of March 31, 2018, March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our internal controls were not effective due to certain identified material weaknesses.  The material weakness identified as of March 31, 2017 was the result of operating ineffectiveness of controls related to management's review over the accounting close process, contract costs, and forecasts used to support certain fair value estimates.  This material weakness was not fully remedied as of March 31, 2018 and therefore remains a material weakness as of that date.  The material weaknesses identified as of March 31, 2016 were a result of our insufficient review of non-routine revenue transactions and the related accounting entries and were remediated during fiscal 2017. These material weaknesses were a result of our insufficient review of non-routine revenue transactions and the related accounting entries. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.  If the remedial measures implemented are determined to be insufficient to address our current material weakness, if we are unable to successfully remediate our current material weakness related to our accounting close process, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results. Our failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and in a timely manner or to detect and prevent fraud, could result in a restatement of our financial statements, and could also cause a loss of investor confidence and decline in the market price of our common stock.. 17. If securities or industry analysts do not continue to publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will continue to depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about our business or us. If these analysts do not continue to provide adequate research coverage or if one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline.. The market price of our common stock could be adversely affected by future sales of our common stock in the public market by us or our executive officers and directors.. We and our executive officers and directors may from time to time sell shares of our common stock in the public market or otherwise. We cannot predict the size or the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of our common stock by us or our executive officers and directors, or the perception of such sales, would have on the market price of our common stock.. If our stock price does not increase, our common stock may be subject to delisting from the NASDAQ Capital Market.. Our common stock is currently listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market. Continued listing of a security on The NASDAQ Capital Market is conditioned upon compliance with certain continued listing requirements and continued listing standards set forth in the NASDAQ Listing Rules.. On November 28, 2017, we received written notice from the Listing Qualifications Department of The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC notifying us that we were is not in compliance with the minimum bid price requirements set forth in Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(a)(2) for continued listing on The Nasdaq Capital Market due to the shares of our common stock trading below the minimum bid price of $1.00 per share for a period of thirty (30) consecutive business days.. To regain compliance, the bid price of our common stock must have a closing bid price of at least $1.00 per share for a minimum of ten (10) consecutive business days. We were unable to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement during the initial 180-day compliance period. On May 30, 2018, we were granted an additional 180-day compliance period following our written notification to NASDAQ of our intention to cure the deficiency during the second compliance period. If we fail to regain compliance during the second 180-day period, then NASDAQ will notify us of its determination to delist our common stock, at which point we would have an opportunity to appeal the delisting determination to a hearings panel.. If we are unable to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement and our common stock is delisted from Nasdaq, this could, among other things, reduce the liquidity and trading price of our common stock, negatively impact our ability to raise additional funds and result in a loss of institutional investor interest.. We are not currently paying dividends and will likely continue not paying dividends for the foreseeable future.. We have never paid or declared any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings to fund the development and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of our existing revolving credit agreement restrict the payment of cash dividends on our common stock. Any future determination to pay dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. The restriction on and decision not to pay dividends may impact our ability to attract investors and raise funds, if necessary, in the capital markets.. Anti-takeover provisions included in the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law, provisions in our amended and restated articles of incorporation or bylaws and the common share purchase rights that accompany shares of our common stock could delay or prevent a change of control of our company, which could adversely impact the value of our common stock and may prevent or frustrate attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current board of directors or management.. A change of control of our company may be discouraged, delayed or prevented by certain provisions of the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law. These provisions generally restrict a broad range of business combinations between a Wisconsin corporation and a shareholder owning 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. These and other provisions in our amended and restated articles of incorporation, including our staggered board of directors and our ability to issue \"blank check\" preferred stock, as well as the provisions of our amended and restated bylaws and Wisconsin law, could make it more difficult for shareholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by the then-current board of directors, including to delay or impede a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company.. Each currently outstanding share of our common stock includes, and each newly issued share of our common stock will include, a common share purchase right. The rights are attached to, and trade with, the shares of common stock and generally are not exercisable. The rights will become exercisable if a person or group acquires, or announces an intention to acquire, 20% or. 18. more of our outstanding common stock. The rights have some anti-takeover effects and generally will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire control of us without conditioning the offer on either redemption of the rights or amendment of the rights to prevent this dilution. The rights could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control.. In addition, our employment arrangements with senior management provide for severance payments and accelerated vesting of benefits, including accelerated vesting of stock options and restricted stock awards, upon a change of control and a subsequent qualifying termination. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, thereby adversely affecting the market price of our common stock. These provisions may also discourage or prevent a change of control or result in a lower price per share paid to our shareholders."
