[1] "Item 1A.   Risk Factors. In evaluating our business, every investor should carefully consider the following risks. Our business, financial condition or results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected by any of the following risks.. The Telecommunications Industry Has Experienced Increased Competition.. The market for telecommunication services is highly competitive. Currently, we have competition in eight of our markets from cable providers and an electric co-operative. Certain competitors benefit from brand recognition, financial, personnel and marketing resources and access to capital that are significantly greater than ours, which may also be impacted by further industry consolidation. In addition, our relative. 7. TABLE OF CONTENTS. size and the distance between our regional businesses makes it more difficult for us to achieve scale economies and efficiencies than certain of our competitors, which puts us at a competitive disadvantage and may lead to customer attrition. We cannot predict the number of new competitors that will emerge, especially as a result of existing or new federal and state regulatory or legislative actions. Increased competition from existing and new entities could have an adverse effect on our business, revenue and cash flow.. In all of our markets, we face competition from wireless carriers. As wireless carriers continue to build-out their voice and data networks and add products and services targeted to the fixed wireless market, we may experience increased competition, which could have an adverse effect on our business, revenue and cash flow.. The current and potential competitors in our RLEC territories include cable television companies; electric utilities; CLECs and other providers of telecommunications and data services, including internet and VoIP service providers; wireless carriers; satellite television companies; alternate access providers; neighboring incumbent local exchange carriers; and long distance companies that may provide services competitive with those services that we provide or intend to provide.. In Maine, New Hampshire and Massachusetts, our CLEC operations may encounter a change in the competitive landscape that would impact its continued ability to grow and/or retain customers, sustain current pricing plans and control the cost of access to incumbent carrier customers. Our CLEC leases a portion of its facilities, reducing its ability to adjust to price competition.. We provide our long distance services within our territories, primarily through bundling long distance with other local services and providing a single bill for these services. Our long distance competitors, including those with significantly greater resources than us and carriers offering VoIP services, continue to develop attractive new offerings. There can be no assurance that our local services revenue, including long distance services, will not decrease in the future due to competition and/or the introduction of new services.. Changes in the Regulation of the Telecommunications Industry Could Adversely Affect Our Business, Revenue or Cash Flow.. We operate in an industry that is regulated at the federal, state and local level. The majority of our revenue has historically been supported by and subject to regulation. Certain federal and state regulations and local franchise requirements have been, are currently, and may in the future be, the subject of judicial proceedings, legislative hearings and administrative proposals. Such proceedings may relate to, among other things, federal and state universal service funds, the rates we may charge for our local, network access and other services, the manner in which we offer and bundle our services, the terms and conditions of interconnection, unbundled network elements and resale rates, and could change the manner in which telecommunications companies operate. The FCC ICC Order began significantly reducing access revenue received by us in July 2012. Subsequently, we accepted the FCC's ACAM offer for ten of our eleven RLECs, which replaced USF HCL revenue for those RLECs effective as of January 1, 2017, and will require additional network capital expenditures. ACAM support will decline over a ten year period. In addition, there can be no assurances that recent FCC actions will not be changed in the future. Any such changes could adversely affect our business, revenue and cash flow.. If We Fail to Meet Our Broadband Deployment Obligations Under ACAM, We May Lose All or Part of Our ACAM Support.. On March 23, 2016, the FCC released an order, which adopted changes to the Universal Service programs, directed to preserve and advance voice and broadband service in areas served by rate-of-return carriers. The order provided qualifying rate-of-return carriers the option of receiving model-based support through ACAM in lieu of legacy rate-of-return support through CAF BLS, formerly ICLS, and USF HCL. Ten of our RLECs qualify for ACAM, and have elected to accept ACAM support. These elections were effective on January 1, 2017, and are expected to provide ACAM support through 2026. However, the ACAM election includes specific broadband deployment obligations, including the number of locations to be capable of specific broadband speeds within certain eligible Census Blocks in our service areas. If we fail to meet these broadband deployment obligations, we may lose all or part of our ACAM support, which would adversely affect our business, revenue and cash flow.. 8. TABLE OF CONTENTS. We Are Subject to Restrictive Debt Covenants That Limit Our Business Flexibility By Imposing Operating and Financial Restrictions on Our Operations.. Our credit facility contains certain covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to take specific actions, which may limit our ability to invest in new services or respond to competitive forces, including, without limitation, restrictions on our ability to:. •. incur certain liens;. •. incur additional indebtedness;. •. wind up, liquidate, merge, or consolidate with any other person or transfer or dispose of certain properties or assets;. •. change the nature of our business;. •. make certain types of restricted payments, including dividends on our common stock, investments and acquisitions;. •. enter into specified transactions with affiliates; and. •. enter into sale and leaseback transactions.. Any of our future indebtedness may impose similar or other restrictive covenants.. Our credit facility also requires quarterly fixed principal payments and annual variable excess cash flow payments, which may limit cash available for our operations. In addition, our financial covenants may require the use of operating cash to pay outstanding debt and limit our ability to invest in our operations.. We May Not Be Able to Integrate New Technologies and Provide New Services in a Cost-Efficient Manner.. The telecommunications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology, frequent new service introductions and evolving industry standards. Technological developments may reduce the competitiveness of our networks and require additional capital expenditures or the procurement of additional products that could be expensive and time consuming to install and integrate into our network. Our financial condition or the terms and conditions included in our credit facilities may limit our ability to make additional capital expenditures or procure additional products. In addition, a substantive investment by a competitor in a new technology could challenge our position in the marketplace, as the services offered by our competitor arising out of new technology may reduce the attractiveness of our services. If we fail to adapt successfully to technological advances or fail to obtain access to new technologies, we could lose customers and be limited in our ability to attract new customers and/or sell new services to our existing customers. In addition, delivery of new services in a cost-efficient manner depends upon many factors, and we may not generate the revenue anticipated from such services.. Disruptions in Our Networks and Infrastructure May Cause Us to Lose Customers and Incur Additional Expenses.. To be successful, we will need to continue to provide our customers with reliable and timely service over our networks. We face the following risks to our networks and infrastructure:. •. our territories could have significant weather events which physically damage access lines and network infrastructure, potentially disrupting our ability to provide service and potentially encouraging our customers to find alternative service providers;. •. our rural geography creates the risk of security breaches, break-ins and sabotage;. •. much of our equipment has long service lives, which could increase the frequency of malfunction and outage;. •. our equipment, access and network interface suppliers could experience outages, delivery limitations or labor issues which could impact our ability to provide services to our customers;. •. power surges and outages, computer viruses or hacking and software or hardware defects that are beyond our control; and. 9. TABLE OF CONTENTS. •. unusual spikes in demand or capacity limitations in our or our suppliers' networks.. Disruptions may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers, either of which could cause us to lose customers and/or incur expenses, and thereby adversely affect our business, revenue and cash flow. In addition, the APSC, MPUC, MDTC, MPSC, NHPUC, VPUC and/or WVPSC could require us to issue credits on customer bills for such service interruptions, further impacting revenue and cash flow.. Our Operating Activities Are Subject to Risks Caused by Misappropriation, Misuse, Leakage, Falsification and Accidental Release or Loss of Information Maintained in Our Information Technology Systems.. We operate critical infrastructure and our operating activities are subject to risks caused by misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification and accidental release or loss of information maintained in our information technology systems, including customer, personnel and vendor data. These risks could result from cyber-attacks, which may be committed by our employees or external actors operating in any geography, including jurisdictions where law enforcement measures to address such attacks are unavailable or ineffective, or by other means. Cyber-attacks against companies have increased in frequency, sophistication, scope and potential harm in recent years. Any preventive actions we have taken or may take to reduce the risks of cyber-attacks may be insufficient to repel or mitigate the effects of a cyber-attack in the future, and our resources available to take preventive actions in the future may be limited. We could be exposed to significant costs if any of the above risks were to materialize, and any of the events described above could impair our operations, damage the reputation and credibility of us and our business and have a negative impact on our revenues. Costs related to these risks could include incentives offered to existing customers to retain their business, increased expenditures on cyber security measures and the use of alternate resources, lost revenues from business interruption and litigation, which may be protracted in nature. We could also be required to expend significant capital and other resources to remedy any such security breach.. Our Business is Geographically Concentrated and Dependent on Regional Economic Conditions.. Our business is conducted primarily in north central Alabama, Maine, New Hampshire, western Massachusetts, central Missouri, western Vermont and southern West Virginia and, accordingly, our business is dependent upon the general economic conditions of these regions. There can be no assurance that future economic conditions in these regions, including the slow recovery from the global economic downturn that began in 2008, will not impact demand for our services or cause residents or businesses to relocate to other regions, which may adversely impact our business, revenue and cash flow. There can also be no assurance that these regions will respond to market and economic changes in a similar nature to urban markets or other regional areas.. Our Success Depends on a Small Number of Key Personnel.. Our success depends on the personal efforts of a small group of skilled employees and senior management. The rural nature of much of our service area provides for a smaller pool of skilled telephone employees and increases the challenge of hiring employees. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance.. We Provide Numerous Services to Our Customers Over Access Lines, and as We Lose Access Lines, Our Business and Results of Operations May Be Adversely Affected.. Our business generates revenue by delivering voice and data services over access lines. We have experienced net voice access line loss in our RLEC territories due to increased competition, wireless substitution, challenging economic conditions and loss of second lines. RLEC residential voice access lines declined by approximately 8.7% during 2017. We expect to continue to experience net residential voice access line loss in our rural markets. It is unlikely that we will be able to offset the loss of residential voice lines by data access line growth, and if we are unable to do so, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected.. 10. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Our Performance Is Subject to a Number of Other Economic and Non-Economic Factors, Which We May Not Be Able to Predict Accurately.. There are factors that may be beyond our control that could affect our operations and business. Such factors include adverse changes in the conditions in the specific markets for our services, the conditions in the broader market for telecommunication services and the conditions in the domestic and global economies, generally.. Although our performance is affected by the general condition of the economy, not all of our services are affected equally. Voice access revenue is generally linked to relatively consistent variables such as population changes, housing starts and general economic activity levels in the areas served. Data access and cable television revenue is generally related to more variable factors, such as changing levels of discretionary spending on entertainment and the adoption of e-commerce and other on-line activities by our current or prospective customers. It is not possible for management to accurately predict all of these factors and the impact of such factors on our performance.. Changes in the competitive, technological and regulatory environments may also impact our ability to increase revenue and/or earnings from the provision of local wireline services. We may therefore have to place increased emphasis on developing and realizing revenue through the provision of new and enhanced services with higher growth potential. In such a case, there is a risk that these revenue sources, as well as our cost savings efforts through further efficiency gains, will not grow or develop at a fast enough pace to offset declines in local residential services. It is also possible that, as we invest in new technologies and services, demand for those new services may not develop. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully expand our service offerings through the development of new services, and our efforts to do so may have a material adverse effect on our financial performance.. Governmental Authorities Could Decrease Network Access Charges or Rates for Local Services, Which Would Adversely Affect Our Revenue.. Approximately 21.9% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017, was derived from interstate network access charges paid by long distance carriers for use of our facilities to originate and terminate interstate and intrastate telephone calls. The interstate network access rates that we can charge are regulated by the FCC. Terminating intrastate network access rates, which formerly were regulated by the regulatory commissions in each state in which we operate, have been capped and reduced by the FCC. The FCC continues to reform the federal network access charge system with the stated intent to promote deployment of broadband data services. In October 2011, the FCC released the FCC ICC Order, which has and will continue to significantly change the way telecommunication carriers receive compensation for exchanging traffic. On July 1, 2013, all terminating intrastate rates that exceeded the interstate rate were reduced to the interstate rate. In 2014, the interstate rate began a six year reduction to \"bill and keep\" in which carriers bill their customers for services and keep those charges, but neither pay for nor receive compensation from traffic sent to or received from other carriers. It is unknown at this time what additional changes, if any, the FCC or state regulatory commissions may adopt. Such regulatory developments could adversely affect our business, revenue and cash flow.. The local services rates and originating intrastate access fees charged by our RLECs are regulated by state regulatory commissions which have the power to grant and revoke authorization to companies to provide telecommunication services and to impose other conditions and penalties. If we fail to comply with regulations set forth by the state regulatory commissions, we may face revocation of our authorizations in a state or other conditions and penalties. It is possible that new plans would require us to reduce our rates, forego future rate increases, provide greater features as part of our basic service plan or limit our rates for certain offerings. We cannot predict the ultimate impact, if any, of such changes on our business, revenue and cash flow.. Certain of our RLECs charge rates for local services and originating intrastate access service based in part upon a rate-of-return authorized by the state regulatory commissions. These authorized rates are subject to audit at any time and may be reduced if the state regulatory commission finds them excessive. If any of our RLECs is ordered to reduce its rates or if its applications to increase rates are denied or delayed, our business, revenue and cash flow may be negatively impacted.. 11. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Failure to Receive Approved Levels of FCC Support Funding Would Adversely Affect Our Business, Revenue and Cash Flow.. Beginning January 1, 2017, ACAM replaced USF HCL for two of our three RLECS that had previously received USF HCL support payments, and the third RLEC continues to receive USF HCL and CAF BLS support payments. All of those support payments will require us to make additional capital investments to build out our network to support the delivery of higher broadband speeds. If our participating RLECs do not receive the approved level of ACAM, USF HCL, and CAF BLS support from the FCC for any reason, our business, revenue and cash flow would be negatively affected.. The outcome of any future FCC proceedings and other regulatory or legislative changes could affect the amount of support that we receive, and could have an adverse effect on our business, revenue and cash flow. If a wireless or other telecommunication carrier receives ETC status in our service areas or even outside of our service areas, the amount of support we receive from the USF HCL could decline under current rules, and under some proposed USF HCL rule changes, could be significantly reduced.. USAC serves as the administrative agent to collect data and distribute funds for USF and in 2006, it began conducting High Cost Beneficiary audits, designed to ensure compliance with FCC rules and program requirements and to assist in program compliance. USAC randomly selects RLECs to be audited each year and several of our RLECs have been selected for one of these audits each year. In December 2016, four of our RLECs were selected for a payment quality assurance audit, which has since been completed with no material findings. USAC has issued a no further action determination letter for three of these audits and the fourth audit revealed an overpayment of<U+2009> $102 to us, which we refunded to USAC in July 2017. If USAC determines in any future audit that any of our data submissions were incorrect, we could be required to return funds to USAC for the period under review, which would negatively affect our business revenue and cash flow.. If We Were to Lose Our Protected Status Under Interconnection Rules, We Would Incur Additional Administrative and Regulatory Expenses and Face More Competition.. As a \"rural telephone company\" under the Communications Act, each of our RLECs is exempt from the obligation to lease its unbundled facilities to CLECs, to offer retail services at wholesale prices for resale, to permit competitive co-location at its facilities and to comply with certain other requirements applicable to larger incumbent local exchange carriers. However, we eventually may be required to comply with these requirements in some or all of our service areas if: (i) we receive a bona fide request from a telecommunication carrier; and (ii) the state regulatory commissions, as applicable, determine that it is in the public interest to impose such requirements. In addition, we may be required to comply with some or all of these requirements in order to achieve greater pricing flexibility from state regulators. If we are required to comply with these requirements, we could incur additional administrative and regulatory expenses and face more competition, which could adversely affect our business revenue and cash flow.. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, investors' views of us and, as a result, the value of our common stock.. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our management is required to report upon the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. However, for so long as we remain a \"smaller reporting company\" for Securities and Exchange Commission reporting purposes, we intend to take advantage of certain exemptions from various Securities and Exchange Commission reporting requirements, including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which section would otherwise require us to annually obtain an audited opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If material weaknesses or deficiencies in our internal controls exist and go undetected or unremediated, our financial statements could contain material misstatements that, when discovered in the future, could harm our operating results, investors' views of us and, as a result, the value of our common stock.. 12. TABLE OF CONTENTS. The ongoing implementation of a new billing and operations system could interfere with our operations, which could adversely impact our business and reputation.. We are in the process of implementing a new billing and operations system, which we currently expect to fully implement during the second quarter of 2018. The new billing and operations system has and will continue to require significant capital and human resources to deploy. There can be no assurance that the actual costs for the new billing and operations system will not exceed our current estimates or that the new billing and operations system will not take longer to implement than we currently expect. In addition, potential flaws in implementing the new billing and operations system may pose risks to our ability to operate successfully and efficiently. These risks could result in disruption in operations, loss of valuable data and damage to our reputation, all of which could adversely affect our business."
