[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Please consider the following risk factors carefully. If any one or more of the following risks were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations, and the market price of our securities could decrease significantly. Statements below to the effect that an event could or would harm our business (or have an adverse effect on our business or similar statements) mean that the event could or would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations, which in turn could or would have a material adverse effect on the market price of our securities. Many of the risks we face involve more than one type of risk. Consequently, you should read all of the risk factors below carefully, including the risk factors under the caption \"Risks Related Primarily to our Common Stock and Other Securities\" before making any decision to acquire or hold our common stock or preferred stock. Virtually all of the risks of holding our common stock are also risks for holding our Series A Preferred Stock and our Series B Preferred Stock.. Holders of, and potential investors in, our Series A Preferred Stock should also read \"Additional Risks Related Primarily to our Series A Preferred Stock,\" and \"Additional Risks Related to our Series A Preferred Stock and our Series B Preferred Stock,\" below.. Holders of, and potential investors in, our Series B Preferred Stock should also read \"Additional Risks Related to our Series A Preferred Stock and our Series B Preferred Stock,\" below.. Persons who are party to a Simple Agreement for Future Equity (\"SAFE\") with tZERO, or who are considering becoming party to a SAFE with tZERO, and persons who are potential investors in tZERO Security Tokens to be issued by tZERO, should also read \"Risks Related to the Ongoing Security Token Offering by tZERO\" below.. Any investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. Investors should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, and all other information in this Form 10-K and in any reports we file with the SEC after we file this Form 10-K, before deciding whether to purchase or hold our securities. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also become important factors that may harm our business. The occurrence of any of the risks described in this Form 10-K could harm our business. The trading price of our securities could decline due to any of these risks and uncertainties, and investors may lose part or all of their investment.. Risks Relating to Our Company. We have a history of significant losses. If we do not maintain profitability, our financial results and business could be harmed, and our stock price could suffer.. We have a history of losses, and we may incur operating and net losses in the foreseeable future. At December 31, 2017 our accumulated deficit was $254.7 million. We need to generate significant revenues to be profitable, and we may not be able to do so. In addition to our net loss for the year ended December 31, 2017, we incurred interim net losses during 2015 and 2016, and we may be unable to achieve or maintain profitability in the future. If our revenues grow more slowly than we anticipate or decline, or if our expenses exceed our expectations, our financial results would be harmed and our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could fall below the expectations of our partners and other companies with which we do business, as well as public market analysts and investors. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business.. Currently effective changes in accounting standards governing our financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our future net revenues beginning with the quarter ending March 31, 2018.. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), which sets accounting standards for U.S. public companies, has issued new standards relating to revenue recognition, which became effective on January 1, 2018, and which will apply to our interim financial statements for the quarter ending March 31, 2018. We are in the process of analyzing the new standards and their application to our processes, accounting, financial reporting presentation, disclosures, and controls. We have not reached definitive conclusions about the effects of the new standards on our future financial reporting, but have identified gross versus net revenue recognition, the timing of revenue recognition (when goods are shipped by a supplier versus when the goods are received by the purchaser), and the allocation of performance obligation related to the loyalty program (standalone selling price consideration) as potentially significant issues in our analysis. Of these issues, the gross versus net revenue recognition issue is the most significant. We generate substantially all of our revenues in our retail partner business, in which we sell merchandise primarily through our Website that we fulfill through manufacturers, distributors, and other suppliers. Under previous FASB standards, we recognized revenue from the majority of these sales transactions on a gross basis. We have not reached a definite. 21. conclusion, but we believe we will continue to recognize revenue from the majority of our retail business on a gross basis. If our adoption of the new standards requires us to recognize these revenues on a net basis, our future revenue will be substantially less than it was under the previous standards despite having no impact on gross profits. This could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. The impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on our current and future financial results, including impact of deferred tax assets and the one-time transition tax on unremitted foreign earnings, is uncertain.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"TCJA\"), which was enacted on December 22, 2017, will have a significant effect on our domestic and international tax positions. The new law lowers the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% for tax years beginning in 2018, transitions U.S international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial system, and includes a one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of cumulative foreign earnings as of December 31, 2017. The TCJA also eliminates or limits numerous other deductions and tax benefits, and significantly changes international tax rules. As of December 31, 2017, we have not completed our accounting for the tax effects of the TCJA. During the quarter, we recorded a net charge of $25.3 million based on reasonable estimates for those tax effects. Although the tax rate reduction is known, our analysis may also be affected by other analyses related to the TCJA, including, but not limited to, our calculation of the mandatory deemed repatriation of cumulative foreign earnings and the state tax effect of adjustments made to federal temporary differences, which are uncertain at this time. The net charge is subject to revisions as we complete our analysis of the TCJA, collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret any additional guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\"), FASB, and other standard-setting and regulatory bodies. Adjustments may materially impact our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate in the period in which the adjustments are made. Given the complexity of the TCJA and the significant changes to prior tax law, its impact and effect on us is uncertain.. We have significant deferred tax assets, and we may not be able to realize these assets in the future.. We have established a valuation allowance for our net deferred tax assets, primarily due to realized losses and uncertainty regarding our future taxable income. Determining whether a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets is appropriate requires significant judgment and an evaluation of all positive and negative evidence. At each reporting period, we assess the need for, or the sufficiency of, a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets. We intend to maintain a valuation allowance on our net deferred tax assets until there is sufficient evidence to support the reversal of all or some portion of these allowances.. If we sell our e-commerce business for cash, we would incur a substantial corporate level income tax liability.. If we sell our e-commerce business for cash in a transaction taxable to the Company, the corporate level income tax liability to the Company would depend in part on the sales price but would be substantial. Any net operating losses and credits we have that might be used to reduce the income tax liability to the Company would be unlikely to reduce the tax liability by a significant amount.. If we sell our e-commerce business for cash, we may not make any immediate distribution of the after-tax proceeds to stockholders.. A sale of our e-commerce business for cash would be subject to the approval of our stockholders in accordance with Delaware law. Subject to approval of the stockholders, if we sell our e-commerce business for cash, we may retain some or all of the after-tax proceeds of the sale for use in our blockchain initiatives. Although we currently expect to return a significant portion of the after-tax proceeds to our stockholders within 12 months following the closing of any such sale, by means of a stock repurchase program, dividend, one or more issuer tender offers to our stockholders and/or other methods, any such decisions will depend on our operating results, strategies, business prospects and general economic and market conditions existing at the time. There can be no assurance that we will engage in a stock repurchase program, dividend, issuer tender offer or otherwise distribute or return proceeds to stockholders by any other means in a timely manner or at all. The market price of our common stock could decrease substantially.. We may incur substantial federal income tax expense as a result of the security token offering being conducted by tZERO.. Our majority-owned subsidiary tZERO launched a security token offering (the \"security token offering\") of up to $250 million (subject to increase or decrease) of tZERO Security Tokens on December 18, 2017. In the security token offering, tZERO is offering purchasers the right to acquire, if issued by tZERO in the future, tZERO Security Tokens. The security token offering, which has recently been extended to May 14, 2018 (subject to further extension or earlier termination), is ongoing, and there can be no assurance as to whether, at what amount, or on what terms the security token offering will be completed.. 22. Although we believe that the sale of the tZERO Security Tokens should be treated as a sale of equity for tax purposes, if the proceeds were treated as income to us for federal income tax purposes, we would have a substantial federal income tax expense as a result of the security token offering.. If we fail to accurately forecast our expenses and revenues, our business may be harmed.. The rapidly evolving nature of our industry generally and the constantly evolving nature of our business in particular make forecasting our operating results difficult. We periodically implement large, complex and expensive infrastructure upgrades in order to increase our ability to handle larger volumes of sales and to develop or increase our ability to perform a variety of analytical procedures relating to our business. We are continuing to upgrade and further expand these and other components of our infrastructure. As a result of expenditures on our infrastructure and headquarters, our ability to reduce our expenditures is and will be limited, and any significant shortfall in the revenues for which we have built and are continuing to build our business could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business.. Changes in assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could affect our financial results significantly.. The rules governing our financial reporting require our management to make many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments about revenue recognition, accounting for income taxes, and accounting for intangible assets other than goodwill in a business combination. Changes in any of these assumptions, estimates or judgments could change our reported or expected financial performance significantly, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business.. Our income tax provisions and the amounts we reserve for tax contingencies are estimates and are subject to variations and adjustments, and our risk of substantially increased federal income tax liability is substantially increased by the strategic alternatives we are considering. The amounts we ultimately pay may exceed the amounts estimated or accrued.. Our quarterly tax provision and our quarterly estimate of our annual effective tax rate are subject to significant variations due to several factors. These include variability in accurately predicting our pre-tax and taxable income and loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, relative changes of expenses or losses for which tax benefits are not recognized, changes in how we do business, fluctuations in our stock price, and changes in law, regulations, and administrative practices. Additionally, our effective tax rate can be more or less volatile based on the amount of pre-tax income. For example, the impact of discrete items and non-deductible expenses on our effective tax rate is greater when our pre-tax income is relatively low. We are subject to audits by a number of tax authorities. The timing of the resolution of income, sales and other tax examinations is highly uncertain, and the amounts ultimately paid, if any, upon resolution of the issues raised by the taxing authorities may differ from the amounts we have accrued. It is possible that within the next 12 months we will receive additional assessments by various tax authorities or reach resolution of tax examinations in one or more jurisdictions. These assessments or settlements may result in changes to our contingencies related to positions on prior years' tax filings and may result in increases to amounts we have accrued. The volatility of our quarterly tax provision, the resolution of matters related to our tax contingencies, and establishment of or increases to any such accruals could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business. The strategic alternatives we are currently considering increase these risks and the risks that we will incur substantially increased federal income tax liabilities.. A subsidiary of ours owns the land on which we built our headquarters, and we may incur environmental expense and liabilities under the environmental indemnity agreements we entered into in connection with our current credit facility or our prior credit facility.. In 2014, our wholly-owned subsidiary O.com Land, LLC purchased land near Salt Lake City, Utah on which we have built our new headquarters. The land is part of the Midvale SLAG Superfund Site (\"Site\"), a former Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (\"CERCLA\") superfund site. O.com Land, LLC is required to follow certain requirements of CERCLA and the consent decree governing remediation of the Site, and its failure to do so could expose us to material environmental liabilities. Further, in connection with the credit facilities we entered into with U.S. Bank and with PCL L.L.C., we entered into broad environmental indemnity agreements relating to the property. Any such environmental liabilities, and any liabilities under any environmental indemnity agreement, could be material and could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business.. 23. We have incurred substantial indebtedness to an affiliate of our Chief Executive Officer which we are contractually obligated to repay under various circumstances, and we may be unable to obtain a new credit facility on favorable terms or at all.. On November 6, 2017, we borrowed $40.0 million under a term loan agreement with PCL L.L.C., a Utah limited liability company (\"PCL\"). PCL is directly or indirectly wholly owned by John Byrne, who is the brother of our chief executive officer Patrick Byrne, and Dorothy Byrne, who is the mother of Patrick Byrne and John Byrne. We are contractually obligated to repay the PCL loan in full under various circumstances. Alternative financing may not be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. If we are required to repay the PCL loan and are unable to obtain a new credit facility on favorable terms or at all, we would have no immediate access to borrowed funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to take advantage of opportunities requiring more cash than we then have on hand or to respond to unexpected cash requirements or other liquidity issues that we may face from time to time. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or obtain additional funds or alternative financing on acceptable terms could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business. Further, any other indebtedness we may incur may increase our business risks, including our vulnerability to industry downturns and competitive pressures.. The terms of our term loan agreement include unusual repayment and default triggers.. Our loan agreement with PCL and the deed of trust and other agreements relating to the loan agreement include unusual mandatory repayment and default provisions. In addition to more customary provisions regarding mandatory prepayments and defaults, each of the following would (i) require mandatory prepayment, (ii) violate the covenants in the loan documents, and/or (iii) constitute an event of default under the loan agreement or related agreements:. • Overstock changes ownership, merges with or acquires another entity or changes its name;. • Overstock or Overstock's wholly-owned subsidiary O.Com Land fails to meet all federal, state and local municipality regulations relating to the operations of their respective businesses;. • Overstock effectuates a material change in its or any of its affiliates' capital structure;. • Overstock engages in any business activities substantially different from those in which it was engaged on November 6, 2017;. • the decision making and control of Overstock and/or O.Com Land change in any material respect after November 6, 2017;. • any diminution in Patrick Byrne's ownership of Overstock occurs;. • any loss of management control of Overstock by Patrick Byrne occurs;. • the manager of O.Com Land withdraws as such;. • Overstock, or any of its affiliates, materially change its/their ownership and/or equity structure after November 6, 2017; and. • O.Com Land defaults under any agreement in favor of another creditor that may materially affect O.Com Land's ability to perform its obligations under the PCL loan documents.. These default provisions include matters over which we have no control, and other matters over which neither we nor our Chief Executive Officer Patrick Byrne has any control. Further, some of the provisions are ambiguous. If we default and are unable to cure the default or obtain a waiver, we would be required to repay the full amount then outstanding under the loan agreement, which would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial results and business. In addition, upon a default in payment or the performance of any covenant or condition under the loan documents, the interest rate would increase to 18% per annum, which would make it more difficult to pay amounts due under the loan and could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business.. Our obligations under our term loan agreement are secured by our corporate headquarters and the related land, fixtures and certain personal property related to our headquarters.. Our term loan from PCL is structured as a real estate loan, and our obligations under the loan agreement and related agreements are secured by our corporate headquarters and the related land, fixtures and certain personal property related to our headquarters. If we default and PCL forecloses on our assets we would have to enter into a new lease of the headquarters with a new owner and replace essential equipment, if possible, or relocate our headquarters, and the default and foreclosure would have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business.. 24. Changes in management roles and responsibilities, the loss of key personnel, particularly technical personnel, or any inability to attract and retain additional personnel could affect our ability to successfully grow our business.. Our performance is substantially dependent on the continued services and on the performance of our senior management and other key personnel. Our performance also depends on our ability to retain and motivate our officers and key employees. Changes in the roles and responsibilities of members of management or the loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees for any reason could harm our business. Members of senior management or key employees may need to take a leave of absence for medical or other reasons. In 2013 our Chief Executive Officer and then Chairman of the Board, Dr. Patrick Byrne, took a two-month leave of absence for medical reasons, and in 2016 he took a three-month leave of absence for medical reasons. We do not have employment agreements with any of our key personnel and we do not maintain \"key person\" life insurance policies. Our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate other highly-skilled technical, managerial, editorial, merchandising, marketing and customer service personnel. For example, the platform and trading system that may be developed by tZERO, including the technology and intellectual property that may be developed in connection with the project, is expected to be developed primarily by a small number of key employees of tZERO and its affiliates. Competition for such personnel, particularly technical personnel including high-end data engineers, experts in rapidly developing fields including artificial intelligence and machine learning, and other technical experts, is intense. Our failure to attract and retain the necessary personnel could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business. In addition, certain changes in our relationship with Dr. Patrick Byrne could result in a default under and/or early mandatory pre-payment obligation of our $40 million loan. See \"-The terms of our term loan agreement include unusual repayment and default triggers\" above.. Acquisitions we have made and may make will increase costs and regulatory and integration risks.. From time to time we have acquired, and may in the future acquire, other businesses or the assets of other businesses. Integrating an acquired business or its assets involves a number of risks and financial, managerial and operational challenges. We have incurred significant expenses in connection with acquisitions we have made in the past, and expect to incur additional expenses in connection with those acquisitions or in connection with other acquisitions we may make in the future. Our profitability has been and may continue to be adversely affected by such acquisitions. Further, acquisitions may also create a need for additional accounting, tax, compliance, documentation, risk management and internal control procedures, and may require us to hire additional personnel to implement, perform and/or monitor such procedures. To the extent our procedures are not adequate to appropriately implement, perform and/or monitor all necessary procedures relating to any new or expanded business, we could be exposed to a material loss or regulatory sanction. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business.. We are subject to the risk of possibly becoming an investment company under the Investment Company Act.. The Investment Company Act regulates certain companies that invest in, hold or trade securities. As a result of a portion of our assets consisting of minority investment positions, we are subject to the risk of inadvertently becoming an investment company. Because registration under the Investment Company Act would make it impractical for us to operate our business, we need to avoid becoming subject to the registration requirements of the Investment Company Act. To do so, we intend to monitor the value of our investments and structure transactions to avoid the registration requirements of the Investment Company Act. As a result, we may structure transactions in a less advantageous manner than if we did not have Investment Company Act concerns, or we may avoid otherwise economically desirable transactions due to those concerns. In addition, events beyond our control, including significant appreciation or depreciation in the value of certain of our holdings or adverse developments with respect to our ownership of certain of our subsidiaries, could result in us inadvertently becoming an investment company. If it were established that we were an investment company, there would be a risk, among other material adverse consequences, that we could become subject to monetary penalties or injunctive relief, or both, in an action brought by the SEC, that we would be unable to enforce contracts with third parties or that third parties could seek to obtain rescission of transactions with us undertaken during the period it was established that we were an unregistered investment company. If it were established that the Company were an investment company, this would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial operations and our ability to continue as a going concern.. We are routinely involved in substantial litigation.. From time to time we receive claims and become subject to lawsuits involving consumer protection, employment, intellectual property and other matters related to the conduct and operation of our business and the sale of products on our Website, including claims by regulators and by customers. In addition, we have in the past been and in the future may be, involved in substantial litigation. We are currently a named defendant in litigation now in the United States Supreme Court regarding the constitutionality of certain state tax laws. See \"- Risks Relating to Our E-commerce Business -The United States. 25. Supreme Court has granted certiorari in a case seeking to overturn Quill\" below. Litigation can be costly and time consuming and could divert management and key personnel from our regular business operations. An unfavorable resolution of any substantial litigation matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business.. We may be accused of infringing intellectual property rights of third parties.. We have been and expect we will continue to be subject to claims that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, by offering allegedly infringing products or otherwise. We have contested and expect to continue to contest claims we consider unfounded rather than settling such claims, even when we expect the costs of contesting the claims to exceed the cost of settlement. Any claims may result in significant expenditure of our financial and managerial resources, and may result in us making significant damages or settlement payments or changes to our business. We could be prohibited from using software or business processes, or required to obtain licenses from third parties, which could be expensive or unavailable. Any such difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business.. We may be unable to protect our proprietary technology and to obtain trademark protection for our marks.. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the protection of our software and other proprietary intellectual property rights. We may be unable to protect it, in the United States or elsewhere, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Further, we may not be able to secure protection for our service marks or trademarks in the United States or elsewhere as we expand internationally. Our competitors might adopt product or service marks similar to our marks, or might try to prevent us from using our marks. Any claim by another party against us or customer confusion related to our trademarks, or our failure to obtain trademark registration, could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business.. We engage in related party transactions, which could result in conflicts of interest involving our management.. We have engaged in the past, and continue to engage, in related party transactions with members of our management, including with Patrick Byrne, our Chief Executive Officer and a director, and Saum Noursalehi, our President, Retail, and their affiliates. In November 2017, our subsidiary O.com Land, borrowed $40 million from PCL, an entity owned by the brother and mother of Dr. Byrne. We guaranteed the loan and secured it by pledging our corporate headquarters, the land on which it is located and certain fixtures and personal property related to the property. In connection with the loan, O.com Land entered into an environmental indemnity agreement in favor of PCL. The loan is subject to mandatory prepayment under various circumstances, including our consummation of any significant financing. Dr. Byrne is also a party to our Memorandum of Understanding (\"MOU\") with Hernando de Soto and personally plans to pay $14 million to help launch the project contemplated by the MOU, and to receive a 17% ownership interest in DeSoto, Inc., 50% of the common stock of which is to be owned by Medici Ventures. Dr. Byrne is expected to serve as Co-chairman and Chief Executive Officer of DeSoto. In addition, we are party to a software licensing agreement with SiteHelix Inc., an entity majority-owned by our President, Retail and Board member Saum Noursalehi, pursuant to which we have made payments to SiteHelix totaling approximately $31,000 during the two years ended December 31, 2017. In February 2018, we also purchased the assets of Rental Roost and Houserie, companies in which our Senior Vice President Vikram Raghavan is a shareholder, for a combined purchase price of $600,000, and in January 2018, Medici Ventures purchased an interest in Bitsy, Inc., a startup company founded and one-third owned by Medici Ventures' chief operating officer and general counsel, for $1 million. We have policies and procedures in connection with entering into related party transactions, including a requirement for audit committee approval, which were followed in connection with the foregoing transactions. However, related party transactions may present conflicts of interest and could result in disadvantages to our company, which could materially and adversely affect us.. Our ownership of less than 100% of tZERO and other subsidiaries may cause conflicts of interest.. At December 31, 2017, our wholly-owned subsidiary Medici Ventures owned 81%, and it currently owns approximately 80%, of the outstanding common stock of tZERO, and tZERO employees, former employees and others own the balance of the shares. Medici Ventures has issued employee stock options that may result in our owning less than 100% of Medici Ventures in the future, which would also reduce our effective interest in tZERO. The boards of directors of tZERO and Medici Ventures must consider the interests of all of their stockholders, and the interests of the individual stockholders may differ from our interests. Any significant divergence between our interests and the interests of other stockholders, who are also likely to be employees, of our majority owned subsidiaries, could result in disagreements regarding business matters and could have an adverse effect on employee morale and on our business.. Our 50% subsidiary DeSoto, Inc. is a public benefit corporation.. 26. Our subsidiary Medici Ventures has formed DeSoto, Inc. as a public benefit corporation under Delaware law. Directors of traditional corporations, including Overstock and Medici Ventures, are required to make decisions they believe to be in the best interests of their stockholders. The directors of DeSoto are required by Delaware law to manage DeSoto in a manner that balances (1) DeSoto's stockholders' pecuniary interests, (2) the best interests of those materially affected by DeSoto's conduct, and (3) DeSoto's public benefit purpose, which is to promote full financial inclusion, economic advancement, and enfranchisement of individuals, by creating systems using blockchain and other technologies that help individuals prove rightful ownership of assets, capitalize their assets, and establish a formal identity. As a result, DeSoto may not have the same focus on profitability that Overstock and Medici Ventures have, and the duties of the officers and directors of DeSoto, some of whom also are or will be officers and/or directors of Overstock and/or Medici Ventures, may conflict with the duties of the officers and directors of Medici Ventures and Overstock. Even in the absence of common directors, conflicts of interest may arise. In addition, DeSoto does not currently have a specific plan to generate revenues or profits, and does not expect to generate revenues or profits for the foreseeable future, and we may need to provide additional capital to DeSoto.. We and tZERO have each recently received notice that the staff of the SEC's Division of Enforcement is conducting an investigation and has requested information regarding the tZERO security token offering.. In February 2018, the Division of Enforcement of the SEC informed tZERO and subsequently informed us that it is conducting an investigation and requested that we and our affiliates, including Medici Ventures and tZERO voluntarily provide certain information and documents related to tZERO and the tZERO security token offering in connection with its investigation. We are in the process of responding to these document requests and intend to cooperate fully with the SEC in connection with its investigation, which will require the time and attention of tZERO and our personnel, and may have an adverse effect on our ability to focus attention on our businesses and our ability to raise capital. In addition, the investigation could result in a delay of the tZERO security token offering, negative publicity for tZERO or us, and may have a material adverse effect on us or on the current and future business ventures of tzero.. Risks Relating to Our Current Review of Strategic Initiatives. We are exploring strategic initiatives, and decisions we may make could have material adverse effects on our business and the market price of our common stock.. We are currently exploring certain strategic initiatives, and decisions we make could change our business fundamentally and increase the risks and uncertainties of our business substantially. We are considering a range of potential transactions, including a sale of our e-commerce business, a sale of, or business combination involving, our entire Company, and additional equity or debt financings. There can be no assurance that we will pursue or consummate any strategic transaction or, if consummated, that any such transaction will ultimately be favorable to the Company and its stockholders. Any such transaction could materially adversely affect our business and financial results. In addition, our exploration of strategic and financing options has required and will continue to require significant time and attention by our management, and the incurrence of significant expenses. Further, our efforts to keep investors informed about our consideration of strategic alternatives may result in distraction among our employees and may adversely affect our business.. If we sell our e-commerce business, our revenues will decrease substantially, we will need to develop new businesses and sources of revenue, and our business, financial results and prospects may be materially adversely affected.. If we sell our e-commerce business in order to focus on our efforts on our Medici initiatives, our revenues would decrease to an insignificant amount. Our e-commerce business is a relatively mature and predictable business compared to our Medici initiatives, which have a short history, minimal revenues, significant expenses, significant losses and significant uncertainties, and conduct business in a new and rapidly changing industry. We would continue to bear most of the expenses we currently bear as a publicly held company, but would have to build a new business and develop new sources of revenue based on our blockchain initiatives, and there is no assurance that we would be able to do so or, even if we could do so, that our new business could become profitable.. The price of our common stock has increased substantially recently. If we determine not to sell our Company or our e-commerce business or make other fundamental changes to our business, the price of our common stock may decrease significantly.. The trading prices of our common stock have increased substantially recently. In the third quarter of 2017, our common stock traded at a low of $14.30; in the fourth quarter of 2017 it traded at a high of $82.70. To the extent that the stock price increases resulted from our disclosures about our exploration of strategic alternatives, any decision or announcement of. 27. any decision we may make not to pursue any such strategic alternatives, or to pursue a strategic alternative at a price less than what is anticipated by the market, could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease significantly.. If we sell our e-commerce business in order to focus on our blockchain initiatives and related efforts, risks relating to our Medici businesses, including our tZERO initiatives, that may be immaterial to us now would likely each become a material risk to us.. If we sell our e-commerce business in order to focus on our blockchain initiatives and related efforts, we would immediately become a much smaller company than we are now. Consequently, risks relating to our Medici businesses, including our tZERO initiatives, which may currently be immaterial to us, would in all likelihood each become material risks to us. See \"-Risks Relating to Our Medici Business,\" and \"-Risks Relating to Our tZERO Initiatives\" below.. If we sell our e-commerce business, the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors may accelerate the vesting, in whole or in part, of some or all outstanding restricted stock units under our Equity Incentive Plan.. If we sell our e-commerce business, the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors may accelerate the vesting, in whole or in part, of some or all outstanding restricted stock units (\"RSUs\") under our 2005 Equity Incentive Plan, which would result in an increase in the number of shares outstanding, and would dilute stockholders' ownership of our company. Any such determination would be subject to the discretion of the Compensation Committee and such factors as the Compensation Committee might then deem relevant.. Risks Relating to Our E-commerce Business. Our business depends on the Internet, our infrastructure and transaction-processing systems.. We are completely dependent on our infrastructure and on the availability, reliability and security of the Internet and related systems. Substantially all of our computer and communications hardware is located at a single Overstock-owned and -operated facility. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, cyber-attacks, acts of war, break-ins, earthquake and similar events. Our back-up facility is not adequate to support sales at a high level. Our servers and applications are vulnerable to malware, physical or electronic break-ins and other disruptions, the occurrence of any of which could lead to interruptions, delays, loss of critical data or the inability to accept and fulfill customer orders. Any system interruption that results in the unavailability of our Website or our mobile app or reduced performance of our transaction systems could interrupt or substantially reduce our ability to conduct our business. We have experienced periodic systems interruptions due to server failure, application failure, power failure and intentional cyber-attacks in the past, and may experience additional interruptions or failures in the future. Any failure or impairment of our infrastructure or of the availability of the Internet or related systems could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business.. We rely upon paid and unpaid natural search engines including Google to rank our product offerings, and our financial results may suffer if we are unable to regain our prior rankings in natural searches.. We rely on paid and unpaid natural search engines to attract consumer interest in our product offerings. Google's search engine is dominant in our business, and has historically been a significant source of traffic to our website, much of it at essentially no incremental cost to us. If the changes we believe Google made in 2017 prevent us from regaining our prior rankings in Google's natural search engine, we will have to utilize more expensive marketing channels or otherwise compensate for the loss of some of the natural search traffic, and if we are unable to do so, our financial results may suffer and the changes may have a material adverse effect on our business.. The search engines, including Google, Bing, and Yahoo! may continue to change their ranking algorithms, which may further adversely affect our product offerings in paid and/or unpaid searches, and we may at times be subject to ranking penalties if the operators of search engines believe we are not in compliance with their guidelines.. Potential and existing customers use search engines provided by search engine companies, including, but not limited to, Google, Bing, and Yahoo!, which use algorithms and other devices to provide users a natural ranked listing of relevant Internet sites matching a user's search criteria and specifications. Search engine companies change their natural search engine algorithms periodically, and our ranking in natural searches may be adversely affected by those changes, as has occurred from time to time, and which, we believe, occurred again during 2017, reducing our revenue compared to the year ended December 31, 2016, and leading us to pursue revenue growth in other more expensive marketing channels. Search engine companies may. 28. also determine that we are not in compliance with their guidelines from time to time, as has occurred in the past, and they may penalize us in their search algorithms as a result.. Some shoppers may not utilize the search engines at all, and we may be unable to reach some of those shoppers.. Large marketplace websites and sites which aggregate marketplace sellers with a large product selection are becoming increasingly popular, and we may not be able to place our products on these sites to take advantage of their internal search platforms. Further, some shoppers may begin their searches at a competitor's website, and may not utilize traditional search engines at all. Our inability to place products on or access these sites may have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are subject to cyber security risks and risks of data loss or other security breaches.. Our business involves the storage and transmission of users' proprietary information, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, and to resulting claims, fines, and litigation. We have been subjected to a variety of cyber-attacks, which have increased in number and variety over time. We believe our systems are probed by potential hackers virtually 24/7, and we expect the problem will continue to grow worse over time. Cyber-attacks may target us, our customers, our suppliers, banks, credit card processors, delivery services, e-commerce in general or the communication infrastructure on which we depend. Any compromise of our security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, and a loss of confidence in our security measures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business. Moreover, any insurance coverage we may carry may be inadequate to cover the expenses and other potential financial exposure we could face as a result of a cyber-attack or data breach.. Our dependence on payment card payments increases our risks.. Most of our customers use credit or other payment cards to pay for their purchases. Under payment card rules and our contracts with our card processors, if we experience a breach of payment card information or fail to follow payment card industry security standards, we could incur significant fines, higher transaction costs or lose our ability to give customers the option of using payment cards. If we were unable to accept payment cards, it would have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business.. Tariffs or other measures that increase the effective price of products we or our suppliers or fulfillment partners import into the United States could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We and many of our suppliers and fulfillment partners source a large percentage of the products we offer on our Website from China and other countries. If the United States imposes tariffs or other measures that directly or indirectly increase the price of products we or they import and that we offer on our Website, the increased prices could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business.. We face intense competition and may not be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors.. The online retail market is evolving rapidly and intensely competitive. Barriers to entry are minimal, and current and new competitors can launch new websites at a relatively low cost. We currently compete with numerous competitors, including:. • online retailers with or without discount departments, including Amazon.com, AliExpress (part of the Alibaba Group), eBay, and Rakuten.com (formerly Buy.com);. • online specialty retailers such as Blue Nile, Bluefly, Houzz, Jet.com, Wayfair, Zappos.com, and Zulily;. • private sale sites such as Groupon, Living Social and Rue La La;. • furniture specialists including Ashley Furniture, Bob's Discount Furniture, Havertys, Raymour & Flanigan and Rooms To Go;. • traditional general merchandise and specialty retailers and liquidators including Barnes and Noble, Bed, Bath & Beyond, Best Buy, Costco, Crate and Barrel, Ethan Allen, Gilt, Home Depot, HomeGoods, Hudson's Bay Company, IKEA, J.C. Penney Company, Kirkland's, Kohl's, Lands' End, Lowe's, Macy's, Nordstrom, Pier 1 Imports, Pottery Barn, Restoration Hardware, Ross Stores, Saks Fifth Avenue, Sears, T.J. Maxx, Target, Wal-Mart and Williams-Sonoma, all of which also have an online presence; and. • liquidation e-tailers such as SmartBargains.. We expect that existing and future traditional manufacturers and retailers will continue to add or improve their e-commerce offerings, and that our existing and future e-commerce competitors, including Amazon, will continue to increase. 29. their offerings and delivery capabilities. Many of our competitors specialize in one or more of the areas in which we offer products. For example, our furniture offerings compete with more than 100 online retail furniture websites, in addition to many more traditional furniture retail specialists. Some of our competitors run at net losses to gain market share in the online retail market. Competition from Amazon and from other competitors, many of whom have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition, greater access to capital and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do, affect us and could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business.. Our competitors may directly increase our marketing costs and also may cause us to decrease certain types of marketing.. In addition to competing with us for customers, suppliers, and employees, our competitors may directly increase our operating costs, by driving up the cost of various forms of online advertising, as has happened recently, or otherwise. We may elect to decrease our use of sponsored search or other forms of marketing from time to time in order to decrease our costs, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business. We may also elect to spend additional amounts on sponsored search or other forms of marketing from time to time in order to increase traffic to our Website, or to take other actions to increase traffic and/or conversion, and the additional expenditures may have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business.. Our business depends on effective marketing, including marketing via email and social networking messaging, and we intend to increase our spending on marketing and branding, which may adversely affect our financial results.. We depend on effective marketing and high customer traffic. We depend on email to promote our site and offerings and to generate a substantial portion of our revenue. If a significant portion of our target customers no longer utilize email, or if we are unable to effectively and economically deliver email to our potential customers, whether for legal, regulatory or other reasons, it would have a material adverse effect on our business. We also rely on social networking messaging services for marketing purposes, and anything that limits our ability or our customers' ability or desire to utilize social networking services could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to develop, implement and maintain effective and efficient cost-effective advertising and marketing programs, it would have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business. Further, as part of our growth strategies, we intend to increase our spending on marketing and branding initiatives significantly, which may adversely affect our financial results. There is no assurance that any increase in our marketing or branding expenditures will result in increased market shares or will ultimately have a positive effect on our financial results.. If one or more states successfully asserts that we should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of our merchandise or the merchandise of third parties that we offer for sale on our Website, or that we should pay commercial activity taxes, our business could be harmed.. We generally do not collect sales or other similar taxes on sales of goods into states where we have no duty to do so under federal court decisions construing applicable constitutional law. If any jurisdiction where we do not or did not collect sales or other taxes successfully asserts that we should do so or should have done so, or should otherwise have collected or paid other types of taxes, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Several states have enacted laws requiring remote vendors to notify resident purchasers in those states of their obligation to pay a use tax on their purchases and, in some instances, to report untaxed purchases to the state tax authorities. Other states have enacted legislation to require retailers without a physical presence in the state to collect and remit state sales taxes if they engage in any activity in connection with the selling, leasing or delivery of tangible personal property or taxable services within the state. In the past we have terminated affiliate marketing websites as a result of efforts by certain states to require us to collect sales taxes based on the presence of our third-party Internet advertising affiliates in those states, and we may do so again, which may have material adverse effect on our financial results and business. Additionally, states may seek to apply economic pressure by enacting similar or new laws, or revising their existing tax positions, to force or encourage remote retailers to collect and remit sales tax. Such laws could harm our business by imposing notice burdens upon us, by requiring transaction notices that would adversely affect sales, or by discouraging customer purchases by requiring detailed purchase reporting. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business.. The United States Supreme Court has granted certiorari in a case seeking to overturn Quill, which if overturned may adversely affect us.. On January 12, 2018, the U.S. Supreme Court granted certiorari in a case in which South Dakota seeks to have a statute imposing economic nexus standards on us and other remote sellers like us upheld by the Supreme Court. We are a named defendant in the case. In its petition for certiorari, South Dakota has asked the Supreme Court to overturn the sales and use tax physical presence nexus requirement previously upheld by the Supreme Court in 1992 in Quill v. North Dakota. We believe that approximately a dozen other states have enacted laws similar or somewhat similar to South Dakota's measures. If. 30. the Supreme Court overturns Quill, we could face significant additional requirements to collect sales and use taxes in a number of states, and the requirements could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business.. Economic factors, including our increasing exposure to the U.S. housing industry, may adversely affect us.. Economic conditions, particularly any weakness in the United States housing market, may adversely affect our financial performance. Over the last few years, the percentage of our sales from home and garden products has increased substantially. We believe that our sales of home and garden products are affected by the strength of the U.S. housing industry, and that downturns in the U.S. housing industry could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business.. Decreases in discretionary consumer spending may have an adverse effect on us.. A substantial portion of the products and services we offer are products or services that consumers may view as discretionary items rather than necessities. As a result, our results of operations are sensitive to changes in macro-economic conditions that impact consumer spending, including discretionary spending. Difficult macro-economic conditions, particularly high levels of unemployment or underemployment, also impact our customers' ability to obtain consumer credit. Other factors, including consumer confidence, employment levels, interest rates, tax rates, consumer debt levels, and fuel and energy costs could reduce consumer spending or change consumer purchasing habits. Slowdowns in the U.S. or global economy, or an uncertain economic outlook, could materially adversely affect consumer spending habits and could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business.. We are attempting to expand our international business, which could adversely affect us.. We sell products in international markets, and are attempting to expand into some of these markets. International sales and transactions, and our efforts to expand them, are subject to inherent risks and challenges that could adversely affect us, including:. • the need to develop new supplier and manufacturer relationships;. • the need to comply with additional U.S. and foreign laws and regulations;. • changes in international laws, regulatory requirements, taxes and tariffs;. • our limited experience with different local cultures and standards;. • geopolitical events, such as war and terrorist attacks;. • the risk that the products we offer may not appeal to customers in international markets; and. • the additional resources and management attention required for such expansion.. Penalties for non-compliance with laws applicable to international business and trade, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Foreign data protection, privacy and other laws and regulations are different and often more restrictive than those in the United States. Compliance with such laws and regulations will result in additional costs and may necessitate changes to our business practices, which may adversely affect our business. To the extent that we make purchases or sales denominated in foreign currencies, we would have foreign currency risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business.. We face risks related to automating our process for onboarding new products.. We are in the process of automating portions of our new product onboarding process that we previously performed manually. As we do so, there is a risk that inappropriate content or products we prohibit may not be properly identified by our new systems and may appear on our Website until we identify and remove them. The appearance of any such products or content on our Website could violate applicable laws or regulations, result in damage to our brand and/or result in claims, fines or penalties, and could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We face risks relating to our inventory and returns.. In our direct business, we sell merchandise that we have purchased and hold in inventory. In addition, subject to our returns policies, we accept returns of products sold through our partners as well as products we sell in our direct business, and we have the risk of reselling the returned products. We assume the risks of inventory damage, theft and obsolescence, as well as risks of price erosion for these products, and we sometimes sell merchandise at a loss. Our risk of losses in our direct business is especially significant because much of the merchandise we sell is subject to seasonal trends, fashion trends, rapid technological change, obsolescence and price erosion, and because we sometimes make large purchases of particular types of. 31. inventory. Difficulties we may experience with our inventory or returns could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business.. If we do not successfully optimize and operate our warehouse, distribution centers and customer service operations, our business could be harmed.. We have expanded, contracted and otherwise modified our warehouse, distribution centers and customer service operations from time to time in the past, and expect that we will continue to do so. We also contract with third parties to operate warehouses and distribution centers, receive returns and process orders. If we or our third-party providers do not successfully optimize and operate our warehouse, distribution centers and customer service operations, it could significantly limit our ability to meet customer demand, customer shipping or return time expectations, or result in excessive costs and expenses for the size of our business. Because it is difficult to predict demand, we may not be able to manage our facilities in an optimal way, which may result in excess or insufficient inventory or warehousing capacity. We may also fail to staff our fulfillment and customer service centers at optimal levels. Our failure to manage our warehouse operations, distribution centers or our fulfillment and customer service centers optimally could adversely affect our financial results and customer experience, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business.. We depend on a large number of other companies to perform functions critical to our ability to deliver products and services to our customers.. We depend on a large number of other companies, including a large number of independent fulfillment partners whose products we offer for sale on our Website, to perform functions critical to our ability to deliver products and services to our customers. We depend on our fulfillment partners to perform a number of traditional retail operations such as maintaining inventory, preparing merchandise for shipment to our customers and delivering purchased merchandise on a timely basis. We also depend on the delivery services that we and they utilize. Difficulties with any of our significant fulfillment partners or with any of the delivery services, regardless of the reason, could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business.. Risks associated with the suppliers from whom we or our fulfillment partners source products and risks regarding the safety, labelling, content or quality of those products could adversely affect our financial performance.. We depend on our and our fulfillment partners' ability to supply products in a timely and efficient manner. We rely on suppliers' representations of product safety, content and quality. We also rely on our suppliers and partners to ensure proper labelling of products. Issues or concerns regarding product safety, labelling, content or quality could result in consumer or governmental claims and could adversely affect our financial results and business. Any indemnity agreement we may have with a supplier or partner of a product may be inadequate or inapplicable, and any insurance coverage we may carry may be inadequate. Even unsuccessful claims could result in the expenditure of funds and management time and could have a negative impact on our business. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business.. Each of our offerings faces specialized competition and involves regulatory risks.. We offer a variety of services and product offerings, including specialized services and product offerings, such as advertising related to automobiles and for various types of loans, credit cards and insurance offerings, as well as food products. Each of these is subject to substantial regulation and competition. For example, many states and other jurisdictions, including Utah, where we are located, have regulations governing the conduct of automobile sellers and public advertising for automobile sales. We have no ability to know whether the information the automobile advertisers or other advertisers provide is correct. More generally, we have no ability to ensure that our partners or others with whom we do business will comply with all laws and regulations applicable to them and their transactions. Any negative publicity we receive regarding any allegations of unlawful or deceptive conduct may damage our reputation, our ability to attract new customers to our main shopping site, and our brand name generally. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business.. Our decision to accept and hold cryptocurrency, such as bitcoin, may subject us to exchange risk and additional tax and regulatory requirements.. In January 2014, we began accepting bitcoin as a form of payment for purchases on our website, and we now accept approximately 50 different cryptocurrencies. Neither bitcoin nor any of the other cryptocurrencies that we accept are considered legal tender or backed by any government, and bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies have experienced price volatility, technological glitches and various law enforcement and regulatory interventions. In September 2014, we began accepting. 32. bitcoin internationally. The use of cryptocurrency such as bitcoin has been prohibited or effectively prohibited in some countries. If we fail to comply with regulations or prohibitions applicable to us, we could face regulatory or other enforcement actions and potential fines and other consequences. Our Board of Directors has authorized us to hold, in bitcoin, up to 50% of our sales revenues paid for by customers in bitcoin. From time to time we hold bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies directly, and we have exchange rate risk on the amounts we hold as well as the risks that regulatory or other developments may adversely affect the value of the cryptocurrencies we hold. At December 31, 2017, we held cryptocurrencies with a carrying value of $1.5 million. We may choose not to hedge or may be unable to fully hedge our exposure to cryptocurrencies and may at times be unable to convert cryptocurrencies to U.S. dollars. We could suffer significant monetary losses if the cryptocurrencies that we hold decline in value. If any regulatory authority asserts that we require a license or other regulatory approval to conduct business or own an interest in other businesses involving cryptocurrencies, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business.. We have an evolving business model, which increases the complexity of our business.. Our business model has evolved in the past and continues to do so. In prior years we added additional types of services and product offerings and in some cases we modified or discontinued those offerings, and in some cases have re-launched offerings we had previously terminated. We intend to continue to try to offer additional types of products or services, and we do not know whether any of them will be successful. From time to time we have also modified aspects of our business model relating to our product mix and the mix of direct/partner sourcing of the products we offer. The additions and modifications to our business have increased the complexity of our business and impacted our management, personnel, operations, systems, technical performance, financial resources, and internal financial control and reporting functions. Future additions to or modifications of our business are likely to have similar effects. Further, any new business or website we launch that is not favorably received by consumers could damage our reputation or our brand. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business.. The seasonality of our business places increased strain on our operations.. A disproportionate amount of our sales normally occur during our fourth quarter. If we, or our partners, do not stock or are otherwise unable to source products sufficient to meet customer demand, our business would be adversely affected. We may experience an increase in our net shipping cost due to complimentary upgrades and the expense of shipments necessary to ensure timely delivery for the holiday season. In addition, we may be unable to adequately staff our fulfillment and customer service centers during peak periods, and delivery services and other fulfillment companies and customer service providers may be unable to meet the seasonal demand. The occurrence of any of the foregoing, or the occurrence of a disappointing fourth quarter for any reason, could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business.. Existing or future government regulation could harm our business.. We are subject to regulation at the federal, state, local and international levels, including regulation relating to privacy, security, retention, transfer and use of personal user information and telemarketing laws. Increasing regulation may increase the cost of our business and may further restrict our marketing efforts. Our expanding business model may trigger additional regulatory scrutiny. Existing laws, including those governing advertising, product labeling, product content requirements and product safety, may cause us to incur expenses. We may be subject to claims related to personal injury, death, environmental or property damage. We are periodically required to participate in product recalls. We may incur expense in connection with any of the foregoing or other matters or actions which may not be covered by any liability insurance we may carry. These current and future laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business.. Mobile commerce is becoming increasingly significant to us.. Mobile commerce within our iOS and Android apps is becoming increasingly significant to us. Customers who shop on mobile devices may behave differently from our other customers. If we fail to successfully develop app-specific features or if we fail to keep up with mobile technology and adapt to the changing mobile landscape, it could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Changes we are making to Club O or our loss of Club O Gold members could adversely affect us.. We are planning changes to our Club O offerings in order to enhance the value of Club O to our customers and the value of our Club O customers to us. However, any changes risk alienating or confusing some customers. Because our Club O Gold members tend to be particularly valuable customers, a loss of a significant number of them would have an adverse effect. 33. on us. Further, if we fail to successfully implement the changes we are planning or otherwise fail to develop and market our Club O offerings, it could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our insurance coverage and indemnity rights may not adequately protect us against loss.. The types, coverage, or the amounts of any insurance coverage we may carry from time to time may not be adequate to compensate us for any losses we may actually incur in the operation of our business. Further, any insurance we may desire to purchase may not be available to us on terms we find acceptable or at all. We are not indemnified by all of our suppliers, and any indemnification rights we may have may not be enforceable or adequate to cover actual losses we may incur as a result of our sales of their products. Actual losses for which we are not insured or indemnified, or which exceed our insurance coverage or the capacity of our indemnitors or our ability to enforce our indemnity agreements, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are partially self-insured with respect to our employees' health insurance. If the actual costs of these claims exceed the amounts we have reserved for them, we would incur additional expense.. Beginning January 1, 2017, we are partially self-insured with respect to our employees' health insurance, except to the extent of stop-loss coverage that limits our losses both on a per employee basis and an aggregate basis. The actual costs of our employees' health insurance claims could exceed our estimates of those costs for a number of reasons, including more claims or larger claims than we expect, and increases in the costs of healthcare generally. If the actual cost of our employees' health insurance claims and related expenses exceeds the amounts we have accrued, we may be required to record additional charges for these claims and/or to establish additional reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business.. Risks Relating to Our Medici Business. The businesses that we are pursuing through our Medici initiatives are novel and subject to technical, operational, financial, regulatory, legal, reputational and marketing risks.. In August 2015, we acquired the assets and business of a financial technology (\"fintech\") company and in January 2016, we acquired two registered broker-dealers (our \"broker-dealer subsidiaries\") that were affiliated with the fintech company. We have limited experience with the operation of fintech companies or of broker-dealers. In December 2016, we issued publicly-traded securities traded exclusively on a registered alternative trading system operated by one of our majority-owned broker-dealer subsidiaries, the ownership of which is tracked on a blockchain. Our majority-owned subsidiary tZERO is working on other potential financial applications of blockchain technology, including the potential development of a trading platform for digital \"tokens\" or \"coins\" treated as securities. See \"- Risks Relating to Our tZERO Initiatives\" below. These are areas in which we do not have substantial experience, and which are subject to the risks of new and novel businesses, including technical, operational, financial, regulatory, legal and reputational risks, as well as the risk that we may be unable to market, license or sell our technology successfully or profitably. The occurrence of any such risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business.. We may be required to write off amounts relating to our interests in startup businesses.. At December 31, 2017, Medici Ventures held minority interests totaling approximately $12 million in several companies that are in the startup or development stages. These interests are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products these companies are developing are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. Additionally, since these interests are in companies that are in the early startup or development stages, even if their technology or products are viable, they may not be able to obtain the capital or resources necessary to successfully bring their technology or products to market. Furthermore, we have no assurance that the technology or products of our investees would be successful, even if they were brought to market. We have in the past and may in the future write off additional amounts related to these interests. Any such write-offs could be material, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business.. Our ownership interest in Bitt Inc. may expose us to additional risks.. In 2016, Medici acquired an equity interest in Bitt, Inc., a startup company based in Barbados, which is pursuing a variety of digital currency transfer and payment businesses in the Caribbean. Virtually every state in the U.S. regulates money transmitters and money services businesses. In some states the licensing requirements and regulations expressly cover companies engaged in digital currency activities; in other states it is not clear whether or how the existing laws and regulations apply to digital currency activities. Further, U.S. federal law requires registration of most such businesses with the Financial. 34. Crimes Enforcement Network (\"FinCEN\"). These licenses and registrations subject companies to various anti-money laundering, know-your-customer, record-keeping, reporting and capital and bonding requirements, limitations on the investment of customer funds, and inspection by state and federal regulatory agencies. Under U.S. federal law, it is a crime for a person, entity or business that is required to be registered with FinCEN or licensed in any state to fail to do so. Further, under U.S. federal law, anyone who owns all or part of an unlicensed money transmitting business may be subject to civil and criminal penalties. Bitt has represented to us that it has not taken any action that could subject it to registration with FinCEN or to the licensing requirements in any state and has agreed that it will not do so until it has become properly licensed in all required states and registered with FinCEN. However, if Bitt makes an error, even inadvertently, we could be subject to potential civil and criminal penalties. Any such penalties, or even the allegation of criminal or other illegal activities, could have a material adverse effect on us and on our financial results and business.. Our ownership interest in Bitsy Inc. may expose us to additional risks.. In January 2018, Medici purchased an interest in Bitsy, Inc., a U.S.-based startup company founded and one-third owned by Medici's chief operating officer and general counsel, for $1 million. Bitsy plans to build a regulatory-compliant bridge between the U.S. Dollar and cryptocurrencies, and also hopes to be able to offer our customers the ability to purchase crypto currencies on or through our website. Much like the businesses Bitt is pursuing as described above, various aspects of the business that Bitsy plans to engage in are heavily regulated. Virtually every state in the U.S. regulates money transmitters and money services businesses. In some states the licensing requirements and regulations expressly cover companies engaged in digital currency activities; in other states it is not clear whether or how the existing laws and regulations apply to digital currency activities. These licenses and registrations subject companies to various anti-money laundering, know-your-customer, record-keeping, reporting and capital and bonding requirements, limitations on the investment of customer funds, and inspection by state and federal regulatory agencies. Bitsy has confirmed to us that it intends to register with FinCEN and to obtain all licenses it is required to obtain. Under U.S. federal law, it is a crime for a person, entity or business that is required to be registered with FinCEN or licensed in any state to fail to do so. Further, under U.S. federal law, anyone who owns all or part of an unlicensed money transmitting business may be subject to civil and criminal penalties.. If we do not keep pace with technological changes, it may impair our ability to market, license or sell the products and services developed as part of our Medici initiatives.. The market for products and services based on blockchain technology is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent product and service innovation and evolving industry standards. The success of our Medici initiatives depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of such products and services. Failure in this regard may significantly impair our competitiveness and financial results. In addition, we may need to continuously modify and enhance our offerings to keep pace with changes in Internet-related hardware, software, communication, browser and database technologies. We may not be successful in either developing these modifications and enhancements or in bringing them to market in a timely fashion. Furthermore, uncertainties about the timing and nature of new network platforms or technologies, or modifications to existing platforms or technologies, could increase our research and development expenses. Any failure of products and services to keep pace with technological changes or operate effectively with future network platforms and technologies could reduce the demand for our products and services. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business.. The blockchain related products and services that we are developing as part of our Medici initiatives have the potential to be used in ways we do not intend, including for criminal or other illegal activities.. Blockchain related products and services, in particular cryptocurrencies, have the potential to be used for financial crimes or other illegal activities. Because the Medici initiatives are novel there are uncertainties regarding any legal and regulatory requirements for preventing blockchain related products and services from being put to such uses, and there are uncertainties regarding the liabilities and risks to the Company if we are unable to prevent such uses. Even if we comply with all laws and regulations regarding financial and blockchain related products and services, we have no ability to ensure that our customers, partners or others to whom we license or sell our products and services comply with all laws and regulations applicable to them and their transactions. Any negative publicity we receive regarding any allegations of unlawful uses of our Medici initiatives could damage our reputation. More generally, any negative publicity regarding unlawful uses of blockchain technology in the marketplace could reduce the demand for our products and services. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business.. 35. Risks Relating to Our tZERO Initiatives. Risks Related to tZERO's Business. tZERO has a limited operating history, which makes it hard to evaluate its ability to generate revenue through operations, and at the date of this filing, tZERO has not generated revenue from any commercially available blockchain-based application.. tZERO was formed in 2014 to develop blockchain and financial technology as part of Overstock's Medici initiatives. tZERO's limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate its current business and future prospects. tZERO has encountered, and will continue to encounter, risks and difficulties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly developing and changing industries, including challenges in forecasting accuracy, determining appropriate uses of its limited resources, gaining market acceptance, managing a complex regulatory landscape and developing new products. tZERO's current operating model may require changes in order for it to scale its operations efficiently. Investors in our common stock should consider tZERO's business and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties it faces as an early-stage company focused on developing products in the field of financial technology. To date, tZERO has focused on developing its business and exploring opportunities for novel applications of blockchain technology. As a result of its early stage of development, tZERO has not generated revenue from any commercially available blockchain-based applications. tZERO has generated limited revenue and has accumulated losses since its inception. As such, tZERO's has historically been dependent upon continued financial support from us, which we have provided but are under no obligation to continue to do so.. tZERO may not successfully develop, launch, market, or sell its DLR Software.. tZERO anticipates that its first commercially available blockchain-based product will be DLR Software. The DLR Software is currently in customer production testing, which is being conducted by StockCross, and tZERO has not yet entered into any commercial licenses with any licensees. The DLR Software is intended to help broker-dealer licensees with stock inventory to both load and manage their inventory in order to assist short sellers of public securities in establishing that they have located available shares in the U.S. public securities market prior to effecting short sales. The DLR Software is intended to enable licensees to create a blockchain-based record of the shares that the licensee has made available for \"locates\" using customizable DLR Software functionality and of the daily purchases of the right to \"locate\" specifically identified shares for purposes of compliance with regulatory requirements. Although tZERO believes that the DLR Software provides broker-dealers with a better solution than the system currently in use for identifying \"locates,\" the existing system is firmly entrenched and is controlled by firms with substantially greater resources than tZERO or Overstock. tZERO may not successfully develop, launch, market or sell its DLR Software.. The commercial viability of the DLR Software is dependent on the ability of broker-dealer licensees to offer the DLR Software as an effective means of satisfying the regulatory obligations of those effecting short sales. Regulation SHO under the Exchange Act (\"Regulation SHO\"), as interpreted and implemented by the SEC, is the principal regulation governing short sales. In preliminary discussions with regulators regarding the application of DLR Software, certain members of the SEC Staff (the \"Staff\") have expressed concerns regarding whether locates issued utilizing the DLR Software would provide customers of broker-dealer licensees with a valid locate for purposes of Regulation SHO unless certain conditions were satisfied by the issuing broker-dealers. The broker-dealer licensees of DLR Software, as the parties issuing locates for purposes of Regulation SHO, will be responsible for ensuring that locates issued using the DLR Software comply with all applicable regulations and satisfy the requirements of Regulation SHO. In the event that compliance with regulatory obligations in utilizing DLR Software proves too burdensome to broker-dealer licensees, the DLR Software may not gain market acceptance among broker-dealers.. In addition, the SEC and other regulatory and self-regulatory authorities may in the future adopt additional rules and regulations, adopt new or modified interpretations of existing regulations, or take other actions, that may impact those engaging in short selling activity or adversely affect the ability of short-selling customers of broker-dealer licensees to rely on locates generated by the DLR Software in effect at the time. Any governmental or regulatory action that restricts the ability of investors to effect short sales, or to do so in reliance on locates generated by the tZERO DLR Software, could adversely affect the commercial viability of the DLR Software.. Moreover, tZERO will need to devote significant resources to license sales and marketing efforts in order to convince broker-dealers that licensing the DLR Software will increase their revenues from their stock lending operations and to persuade large pension funds and other entities that hold large amounts of publicly traded securities that providing inventory supply to broker-dealers utilizing the DLR Software will provide access to additional revenue opportunities. tZERO will need to build a sales and marketing function and staff to effectively market the DLR Software. tZERO may be unable to do so, and any sales and marketing function and staff it builds may be unable to successfully market the DLR Software. Further, tZERO may have. 36. overestimated the size of the pension crisis and the potential market for the DLR Software, the potential demand for the DLR Software, and the possibility that it will be able to market the DLR Software to potential licensees.. Once the DLR Software is released for commercial licensing, tZERO may need to make changes to the specifications of the DLR Software for any number of reasons. In the event that tZERO is unable to develop the DLR Software in a way that realizes those specifications, it is possible that the DLR Software may never generate significant revenue or become profitable for tZERO. Furthermore, despite good faith efforts to develop and complete the launch of the DLR Software and subsequently to maintain it, it is still possible that the DLR Software will experience malfunctions or otherwise fail to be adequately developed or maintained, which may negatively impact sales and marketing efforts. There can be no assurance that the DLR Software will ever generate significant revenue or become profitable for tZERO.. tZERO expects to develop a new trading platform for the tZERO Security Tokens it plans to issue in connection with its security token offering and for use by other companies that issue tokens treated as securities, but is only in the preliminary stages of development of the new trading platform.. tZERO intends to develop a new Token Trading System - a trading platform that is capable of trading the tZERO Security Tokens and other tokens or coins that are determined to be securities for purposes of U.S. securities laws. At the date of this filing, tZERO is only in the preliminary stages of development of the Token Trading System. The development of the Token Trading System implicates complex technological considerations and raises numerous legal and regulatory issues that will need to be addressed-likely, in consultation with tZERO's broker - dealer subsidiaries' regulators. As a result of these technological, legal and regulatory considerations, the Token Trading System may never be developed and, if developed, may, for a variety of technological, legal and regulatory reasons, never become operational. tZERO expects the Token Trading System to be its second blockchain-based product. If tZERO is unable to successfully develop the new Token Trading System, tZERO's business plans would be materially adversely affected. See \"Risks Related to the Development of the Token Trading System\" below.. tZERO intends to offer advisory services to companies considering or pursuing initial coin offerings, but has not yet been engaged to do so.. tZERO intends to offer advisory services to companies considering or pursuing initial coin offerings. To date, tZERO has not been engaged to provide advisory services to any other company considering or pursuing an initial coin offering, and there can be no assurance that tZERO will be engaged to provide any such services in the future or that any such services, if provided, will be profitable. If tZERO is engaged to provide any such services, tZERO could face claims from any dissatisfied clients and could incur liabilities in rendering any such services, any of which could also damage our reputation and adversely affect other parts of our business.. tZERO's advisory services subject it to additional risks.. On January 31, 2018, tZERO purchased 65.8% of the membership units of ES Capital Advisors, LLC, a registered investment advisor under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. Through ES Capital, tZERO provides automated investment advisory services-sometimes referred to as robo-advisory services through the Overstock.com website's FinanceHub. The risks associated with these investment advisory activities include those arising from possible conflicts of interest, unsuitable investment recommendations, inadequate due diligence, inadequate disclosure and fraud. Realization of these risks could lead to liability for client losses, regulatory fines, civil penalties and harm to tZERO's and our reputation and business. tZERO's membership interest in ES Capital is subject to drag-along rights in connection with certain strategic transactions approved by the manager of ES Capital. tZERO now operates the ES Capital business under the name tZERO Advisors and offers automated investment advisory services through our website's FinanceHub. On March 6, 2018 the SEC's Boston Regional Office notified tZERO Advisors that it is conducting an examination of tZERO Advisors.. PRO Securities and SpeedRoute, two subsidiaries of tZERO that currently generate substantially all of tZERO's revenues, are registered broker-dealers and are subject to extensive regulation.. Broker-dealers are subject to extensive regulatory requirements under federal and state laws and regulations and self-regulatory organization SRO rules. PRO Securities and SpeedRoute are registered with the SEC as broker - dealers under the Exchange Act and in the states in which they conduct securities business and are members of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (\"FINRA\"). In addition, PRO Securities owns and operates the PRO Securities ATS, which has filed a Form ATS with the SEC notifying the SEC of its activities as an alternative trading system. PRO Securities and SpeedRoute are subject to regulation, examination and disciplinary action by the SEC, FINRA and state securities regulators, as well as other governmental authorities and SROs with which they are registered or licensed or of which they are a member. On February 22,. 37. 2018, the SEC's New York Regional Office notified PRO Securities that it is conducting an examination of PRO Securities. PRO Securities and SpeedRoute currently generate substantially all of tZERO's revenues. Any failure of PRO Securities or SpeedRoute to comply with all applicable rules and regulations could have a material adverse effect on tZERO's operations and financial condition and a material adverse effect on us.. PRO Securities is involved in ongoing discussions with regulatory authorities.. PRO Securities has been and remains involved in ongoing discussions with regulatory authorities about the operation of the PRO Securities ATS utilizing the Series A Software Platform and various matters relating to the regulated entities involved. While many of the discussions have been relatively informal, PRO Securities has also received and responded to multiple inquiries from regulators, including FINRA and the SEC. In an unrelated matter, PRO Securities and SpeedRoute are named in a FINRA investigatory matter in which FINRA has conducted on the record interviews of two senior officers of SpeedRoute and PRO Securities, who are also senior officers of tZERO. Any failure of PRO Securities to satisfy FINRA, the SEC, or any other regulatory authority that PRO Securities is in compliance with all applicable rules and regulations could have a material adverse effect on tZERO's operations and financial condition and a material adverse effect on us.. SpeedRoute is involved in ongoing discussions with regulatory authorities.. SpeedRoute has been and remains involved in ongoing discussions with regulatory authorities about a number of matters. SpeedRoute continues to have discussions with FINRA about several matters, including a matter related to potential violations of FINRA rules relating to Order Audit Trail System reporting and trading practice matters and has received document requests from FINRA in connection with certain ongoing matters. SpeedRoute has received and responded to inquiries from FINRA and the SEC. In addition, in December 2017, SpeedRoute received a letter from FINRA stating that the Department of Enforcement at FINRA has received a referral from the staff of FINRA's Department of Market Regulation relating to rules applicable to supervision and required supervisory procedures for review of certain potential trading activity, such as pre-arranged trades or wash trades. Further, in an unrelated matter, SpeedRoute and PRO Securities are also named in a FINRA investigatory matter in which FINRA has conducted on the record interviews of two senior officers of SpeedRoute and PRO Securities, who are also senior officers of tZERO. Any failure of SpeedRoute to satisfy FINRA, the SEC or any other regulatory authority that SpeedRoute is in compliance with all applicable rules and regulations could have a material adverse effect on tZERO's operations and financial condition and a material adverse effect on us.. Technology on which tZERO relies for its operations, including the technology underlying the Series A Software Platform tZERO created in 2016 for trading Overstock's Blockchain Voting Series A Preferred shares, may not function properly.. The technology on which tZERO relies, including the technology underlying the Series A Software Platform tZERO created in 2016 for trading Overstock's Blockchain Voting Series A Preferred shares, may not function properly, which would have a material adverse effect on tZERO's plans, operations and financial condition. Although the Series A Software Platform has worked for the Series A shares, trading in the Series A shares has been extremely limited, with only 10 trades having taken place from December 15, 2016 to the date of this filing, and consequently the Series A Software Platform system has not been tested with significant trading volume. Although tZERO is only in the preliminary stages of development of the Token Trading System, tZERO intends to utilize certain aspects of the technology employed by the existing tZERO software platform. tZERO intends to build a new trading platform for the trading of tokens treated as securities, as described in this filing, but if the technology does not work as anticipated, or if technology that works for the existing tZERO software platform does not work for the Token Trading System, there may be no alternative available. The importance of the technology to tZERO's operations means that any problems in its functionality would have a direct materially adverse effect on tZERO's plans and expectations for revenues from blockchain applications. The technology may malfunction because of internal problems or as a result of cyber-attacks or external security breaches. Any such technological problems would have a material adverse effect on tZERO's prospects.. Acquisitions tZERO has made and may make will increase costs and regulatory and integration risks.. From time to time tZERO has purchased interests in or acquired other businesses or the assets of other businesses, and may do so again in the future. Integrating an acquired business or its assets involves a number of risks and financial, managerial and operational challenges. tZERO may incur significant expenses in connection with purchases or acquisitions it has made in the past or may make in the future. Further, acquisitions may also create a need for additional accounting, tax, compliance, documentation, risk management and internal control procedures, and may require tZERO to hire additional personnel to implement, perform and/or monitor such procedures. To the extent tZERO's procedures are not adequate to appropriately implement, perform and/or monitor all necessary procedures relating to any new or expanded business, we could be exposed to. 38. a material loss or regulatory sanction. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business.. Strategic purchases of interests and acquisitions tZERO may make may detract from the capital that tZERO could otherwise deploy to improve its business or to develop the Token Trading System.. tZERO is pursuing several potential strategic acquisitions of interests in companies relevant to the network tZERO is trying to build that we believe will promote the long-term growth objectives of tZERO. Nevertheless, any capital used to finance such strategic acquisitions would detract from the capital available for tZERO to deploy in operating its existing businesses and developing the Token Trading System. Since the commencement of the security token offering through February 28, 2018, tZERO has utilized approximately $28.2 million towards the acquisition of equity interest in other entities, excluding amounts that may become due in connection with the transactions contemplated by the WPS LOI or any transactions described under \"Business - Medici - tZERO - Other Potential Acquisitions.\" In addition, the successful completion of these transactions and, in some cases, integration of acquired businesses with tZERO, would require substantial attention of management, which may detract from the time and attention of management that is devoted to tZERO's existing projects, including development of the Token Trading System.. Risks Related to the Ongoing Security Token Offering by tZERO. tZERO is conducting a security token offering. There can be no assurance that the tZERO Security Tokens will ever be issued, and any significant difficulties tZERO may experience with the offering could result in claims against us.. tZERO launched the security token offering on December 18, 2017. The security token offering is expected to run through May 14, 2018, but may be extended or shortened. In the security token offering, tZERO is offering the right to acquire, if issued by tZERO in the future, tZERO Security Tokens. tZERO will use its commercially reasonable efforts to develop and issue the tZERO Security Tokens, but there is no assurance that it will do so. tZERO may issue up to $250 million of tZERO Security Tokens, subject to increase. Any significant difficulties tZERO may experience with the security token offering or the development of the tZERO Security Tokens could result in claims against tZERO and us and could have a material adverse effect on the holders of our common stock.. The tax and accounting consequences to us of the security token offering are uncertain, and could have a material adverse effect on us.. The tax and accounting consequences to us of the security token offering tZERO is currently conducting are uncertain. Although we believe that the sale of the tZERO Security Tokens in the security token offering should be treated as a sale of equity for tax purposes, if the proceeds were treated as income to us for federal income tax purposes, we would have substantial federal income tax expense as a result of the security token offering. tZERO is offering up to $250 million of tZERO Security Tokens in the security token offering, subject to increase. In addition, the accounting consequences are uncertain, and there is a possibility that the proceeds of the security token offering might be treated as a liability rather than equity for accounting purposes, which would reduce tZERO's net book value compared to equity treatment.. If tZERO Security Tokens are issued, tZERO intends, subject to various limitations, to pay a percentage of its gross profits as dividends to holders of the tZERO Security Tokens, which would reduce the amount that tZERO might otherwise have been able to pay to us.. If tZERO issues tZERO Security Tokens, tZERO intends, subject to various limitations, to pay quarterly dividends of up to 10% of tZERO's consolidated gross profit, if any, to the tZERO Security Token holders. Any such dividend payments to holders of tZERO Security Tokens would reduce the amount, if any, that tZERO would otherwise have had available for other uses, including use in its business and debt and dividend payments to us as the indirect owner of tZERO common stock.. tZERO's security token offering may not be consummated.. At present, the net proceeds of the security token offering are expected to be used for (i) the repayment of amounts payable to the Company, (ii) strategic equity acquisitions of interests in companies relevant to the network tZERO is trying to build; (iii) the future development of the tZERO Security Tokens and the Token Trading System, (iv) the development of functional utility features for the tZERO Security Tokens, (v) general corporate purposes, which may include capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt repayments, cybersecurity upgrades, augmenting technology, infrastructure and personnel, development of products and services, and short term investments, among other things and (vi) lobbying law makers and regulatory authorities for the purpose of bringing about changes to laws and regulations related to blockchain technologies,. 39. particularly in regards to securities tokens, and (vii) offering, legal and accounting expenses associated with the security token offering. The failure by tZERO's management to apply these funds effectively could have a material adverse effect on tZERO. If the security token offering is not consummated or does not result in substantial proceeds, it could have a material adverse effect on tZERO's ability to fund these objectives and carry out its business plan. If the security token offering is not consummated, tZERO would have to reduce its planned expenditures and/or would require substantial additional funding from us or other sources in order to carry out its business plan. If this were to occur and if tZERO were unable to obtain adequate funding from other sources, we would be required to make decisions about which businesses and projects to fund, and might be required to decrease or eliminate expenditures that we and/or tZERO believe would have been advisable.. We may purchase up to $30 million of tZERO Security Tokens in the security token offering and/or may elect to accept tZERO Security Tokens in payment of some or all of tZERO's indebtedness to us, which would subject us to the risks of holding tZERO Security Tokens and the risk that we would be unable to sell the tZERO Security Tokens.. We may purchase up to $30 million of tZERO Security Tokens in the security token offering and/or may elect to accept tZERO Security Tokens in payment of some or all of tZERO's indebtedness to us. To the extent that we do so, we would be subject to all of the risks of holding the tZERO Security Tokens, including the risk that we would be unable to publicly sell any of the tZERO Security Tokens unless tZERO registers our sale for us under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. If we purchase any of the tZERO Security Tokens or elect to accept tZERO Security Tokens in payment of some or all of tZERO's indebtedness to us, we would require a registration rights agreement providing us the right to require tZERO to register our sale, whether or not we then controlled tZERO, but there can be no assurance that tZERO would be able to do so.. The securities issued or to be issued by tZERO may be subject to registration under the Exchange Act if tZERO has assets above $10 million and more than 2,000 purchasers participate in the security token offering, which would increase tZERO's costs significantly and require substantial attention from tZERO's management.. Companies with total assets above $10 million and more than 2,000 holders of record of their equity securities, or 500 holders of record of its equity securities who are not accredited investors, at the end of their fiscal year must register that class of equity securities with the SEC under the Exchange Act. tZERO could trigger this requirement as a result of the security token offering and be required to register the tZERO Security Tokens with the SEC under the Exchange Act, which would be a laborious and expensive process. Furthermore, if such registration takes place, tZERO would have materially higher compliance and reporting costs going forward.. Risks Related to the Development of the Token Trading System. tZERO is only in the preliminary stages of development of the Token Trading System and may not successfully develop, market and launch any Token Trading System.. tZERO views the development of the Token Trading System as a key commercial milestone. However, tZERO is only in the preliminary stages of development of the Token Trading System, and the Token Trading System may never be developed.. In addition, the development of the Token Trading System would require significant capital funding, expertise of tZERO's management and time and effort in order to be successful. tZERO may have to make changes to the specifications of the Token Trading System for any number of reasons or tZERO may be unable to develop the Token Trading System in a way that realizes those specifications or any form of a functioning network. It is possible that the tZERO Security Tokens and the Token Trading System may not ever be released and there may never be an operational tZERO Security Token or the launch of the Token Trading System may never occur. The Token Trading System, if successfully developed and maintained, may not meet investor expectations at the time of purchase of tZERO Security Tokens - for example, there can be no assurance that the Token Trading System will provide less expensive or more efficient trading than is possible on currently available trading platforms for traditional securities. Furthermore, despite good faith efforts to develop and complete the launch of the Token Trading System and subsequently to maintain the Token Trading System, it is still possible that the Token Trading System will experience malfunctions or otherwise fail to be adequately developed or maintained, which may negatively impact the Token Trading System and Tokens.. tZERO may, but is not obligated to, use the proceeds of the security token offering to make significant expenditures to develop and launch a viable Token Trading System and subsequently to build a fulsome network upon which users can realize utility and value. tZERO may not have or may not be able to obtain the technical skills, expertise, or regulatory approvals needed to successfully develop the Token Trading System and progress it to a successful launch. tZERO does not anticipate that the Series A Trading Platform will be deployed in connection with the Token Trading System in the same manner as is currently deployed by the PRO Securities. While tZERO has sought to retain and continue to competitively recruit experts, there may,. 40. from time to time, be a general scarcity of management, technical, scientific, research and marketing personnel with appropriate training to develop and maintain the Token Trading System. In addition, there are significant legal and regulatory considerations that will need to be addressed in order to develop and maintain the Token Trading System, and addressing such considerations will require significant time and resources. There can be no assurance that tZERO will be able to develop a Token Trading System that achieves tZERO's goals and satisfies the complex regulatory requirements applicable to SEC-registered exchanges and/or permitted alternative trading systems. If tZERO is not successful in its efforts to develop a Token Trading System that is compliant with all regulatory and legal requirements and to demonstrate to users the utility and value of the Token Trading System, it may be impermissible to launch the Token Trading System or there may not be sufficient demand for the Tokens for the launch of the Token Trading System to be commercially viable and tZERO's business would be materially adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. Regulatory authorities may never permit the Token Trading System to become operational.. Assuming that tZERO is able to develop a Token Trading System, numerous regulatory authorities, including FINRA and the SEC, would need to permit the Token Trading System to become operational. If FINRA, the SEC or any other regulatory authority objected to the Token Trading System or to aspects of the Token Trading System, such regulatory authorities could prevent the Token Trading System from ever becoming operational. The regulatory landscape that tZERO needs to navigate in order to achieve an operational Token Trading System is complex, and tZERO may never be able to do so successfully. Any such regulatory issues would have a material adverse impact on tZERO's business.. The Token Trading System may not be widely adopted and may have limited users.. It is possible that the Token Trading System, if developed, will not be used by a large number of issuers, broker-dealers or holders of security tokens or that there will be limited public interest in the creation and development of the Token Trading System. In addition, legal and regulatory developments could render the Token Trading System obsolete or impermissible. Such a lack of use or interest could negatively impact the development of the Token Trading System and the business and financial position of tZERO and have a material adverse effect on us.. Alternative networks may be established that compete with or are more widely used than the Token Trading System.. It is possible that alternative networks could be established that utilize the same or similar protocols as those underlying the Token Trading System or that facilitate services that are materially similar to the Token Trading System's services. The Token Trading System may face competition from any such alternative networks, which could negatively impact the Token Trading System and the tZERO Security Tokens and have a material adverse effect on tZERO and on us.. The Token Trading System, the tokens on that system and any blockchain on which tZERO's products and/or securities may rely may be the target of malicious cyber-attacks or may contain exploitable flaws in its underlying code, which may result in security breaches and the loss or theft of tokens that may trade on the Token Trading System. If such attacks occur or security is compromised, this could expose us to liability and reputational harm and could seriously curtail the utilization of tokens and cause a decline in the market price of the tokens on that system, and could result in claims against tZERO or us.. If the Token Trading System is developed, its structural foundation, the software applications and other interfaces or applications upon which it relies or that will be built upon the Token Trading System are unproven, and there can be no assurances that the Token Trading System and the creating, transfer or storage of the tokens on that system will be uninterrupted or fully secure, which may result in impermissible transfers, a complete loss of users' tokens on that system or an unwillingness of users to access, adopt and utilize tZERO Security Tokens and/or the Token Trading System. Further, the tokens on the Token Trading System and the Token Trading System (and any technology, including blockchain technology, on which they rely) may also be the target of malicious attacks seeking to identify and exploit weaknesses in the software, the tokens on that system or the Token Trading System which may result in the loss or theft of tokens on that system. For example, if tZERO and the tokens on the Token Trading System and/or Token Trading System are subject to unknown and known security attacks (such as double-spend attacks, 51% attacks, or other malicious attacks), this may materially and adversely affect the Token Trading System, and tZERO's business would be materially adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. Some market participants may oppose the development of distributed ledger or blockchain - based systems like those central to tZERO's commercial mission, which could adversely affect tZERO.. Many participants in the system currently used for trading public securities in the United States may oppose the development of capital markets systems and processes that utilize distributed ledger and blockchain-based systems. The market participants who may oppose such a system may include entities with significantly greater resources, including financial. 41. resources and political influence, than tZERO or we have. The ability of tZERO to operate and achieve its commercial goals could be adversely affected by any actions of any such market participants that result in additional regulatory requirements or other activities that make it more difficult for tZERO to operate could adversely affect tZERO's ability to achieve its commercial goals, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. Risks Related to Blockchain Technology. The regulatory regime governing blockchain technologies, cryptocurrencies, digital assets, the Series A Software Platform and offerings of digital assets is uncertain, and new regulations or policies may materially adversely affect the development and the value of such cryptocurrencies and assets.. Regulation of digital assets, like the tZERO Security Tokens, cryptocurrencies, blockchain technologies, cryptocurrency exchanges and the tZERO Platform, is currently undeveloped and likely to rapidly evolve as government agencies take greater interest in them. Regulation also varies significantly among international, federal, state and local jurisdictions and is subject to significant uncertainty. Various legislative and executive bodies in the United States and in other countries may in the future adopt laws, regulations, or guidance, or take other actions, which may severely impact the permissibility of tokens generally and the technology behind them or the means of transaction or in transferring them. Failure by tZERO to comply with any laws, rules and regulations, some of which may not exist yet or are subject to interpretation and may be subject to change, could result in a variety of adverse consequences, including civil penalties and fines.. Cryptocurrency networks, distributed ledger technologies, and coin and token offerings also face an uncertain regulatory landscape in many foreign jurisdictions such as the European Union, China and Russia. Various foreign jurisdictions may, in the near future, adopt laws, regulations or directives that may conflict with those of the United States or may directly and negatively impact tZERO's business. The effect of any future regulatory change is impossible to predict, but such change could be substantial and materially adverse to tZERO's business.. The further development and acceptance of blockchain networks, which are part of a new and rapidly changing industry,. are subject to a variety of factors that are difficult to evaluate. The slowing or stopping of the development or acceptance of blockchain networks and blockchain assets would have a material adverse effect on tZERO's business plans and could have a material adverse effect on us.. The growth of the blockchain industry in general, as well as the blockchain networks on which the tZERO Security Tokens will rely, is subject to a high degree of uncertainty. The factors affecting the further development of the cryptocurrency and cryptosecurity industry, as well as blockchain networks, include, without limitation:. • worldwide growth in the adoption and use of cryptocurrencies, cryptosecurities, and other blockchain technologies;. • government and quasi-government regulation of cryptocurrencies, cryptosecurities, and other blockchain assets and their use, or restrictions on or regulation of access to and operation of blockchain networks or similar systems;. • the maintenance and development of the open-source software protocol of cryptocurrency or cryptosecurities networks;. • changes in consumer demographics and public tastes and preferences;. • the availability and popularity of other forms or methods of buying and selling goods and services, or trading assets including new means of using government-backed currencies or existing networks;. • general economic conditions and the regulatory environment relating to cryptocurrencies and cryptosecurities; and. • a decline in the popularity or acceptance of cryptocurrencies or other blockchain - based tokens.. The cryptocurrency and cryptosecurities industries as a whole have been characterized by rapid changes and innovations and are constantly evolving. Although it has experienced significant growth in recent years, the slowing or stopping of the development, general acceptance and adoption and usage of blockchain networks and blockchain assets may materially adversely affect tZERO's business plans.. The prices of digital assets are extremely volatile. Fluctuations in the price of digital assets could materially and adversely affect tZERO's business.. The prices of cryptocurrencies, such as Bitcoin and Ether, and other digital assets have historically been subject to dramatic fluctuations and are highly volatile. A decrease in the price of a single digital asset may cause volatility in the entire digital asset and security token industry. For example, a security breach that affects purchaser or user confidence in Bitcoin or. 42. Ether may affect the industry as a whole. This volatility may adversely affect interest in and demand for the Token Trading System, which would materially adversely affect tZERO's business.. tZERO's business is subject to complex and evolving U.S. and foreign laws and regulations regarding privacy, technology, data protection, and other matters. Many of these laws and regulations are subject to change and uncertain interpretation, and could result in claims, changes to tZERO's business practices, increased cost of operations or otherwise harm tZERO's business.. tZERO is subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the United States and abroad that involve matters central to its business, including user privacy, blockchain technology, broker-dealer, data protection and intellectual property, among others. Foreign data protection, privacy, broker-dealer and other laws and regulations are often more restrictive than those in the United States. These U.S. federal and state and foreign laws and regulations are constantly evolving and can be subject to significant change. In addition, the application and interpretation of these laws and regulations are often uncertain, particularly in the new and rapidly evolving industry in which tZERO operates.. tZERO has adopted policies and procedures designed to comply with these laws. The growth of its business and its expansion outside of the United States may increase the potential of violating these laws or its internal policies and procedures. The risk of tZERO's being found in violation of these or other laws and regulations is further increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and are open to a variety of interpretations. Any action brought against tZERO for violation of these or other laws or regulations, even if tZERO successfully defends against it, could cause tZERO to incur significant legal expenses and divert its management's attention from the operation of its business. If tZERO's operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws and regulations, tZERO may be subject to any applicable penalty associated with the violation, including civil and criminal penalties, damages and fines, tZERO could be required to refund payments received by it, and it could be required to curtail or cease its operations. Any of the foregoing consequences could seriously harm tZERO's business and its financial results. These existing and proposed laws and regulations can be costly to comply with and can delay or impede the development of new products, result in negative publicity, increase tZERO's operating costs, require significant management time and attention, and subject tZERO to claims or other remedies, including fines or demands that tZERO modifies or ceases existing business practices.. The popularity of cryptocurrencies and cryptosecurities offerings may decrease in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on the cryptocurrency and cryptosecurities industry and tZERO's operations and financial condition.. tZERO was founded to develop and commercialize financial technology based on the use of digital assets, digital securities (or cryptosecurities) and blockchain technology. In recent years, cryptocurrencies and cryptosecurities have become more widely accepted among investors and financial institutions, but have been also faced increasingly complex legal and regulatory challenges and, to date, have not benefited from widespread adoption by governments, central banks or established financial institutions. However, any significant decrease in the acceptance or popularity of cryptocurrency or cryptosecurity offerings may have a material adverse effect on tZERO's operations and financial condition and a material adverse effect on us.. tZERO relies on certain major customers of SpeedRoute and PRO Securities, making it vulnerable to changes in the business and financial condition of, or demand for its services by, such customers.. tZERO relies on certain major customers of SpeedRoute and PRO Securities, making it vulnerable to changes in the business and financial condition of, or demand for its services by, such customers. During the year ended December 31, 2017, tZERO recognized revenue from three customers of SpeedRoute and PRO Securities totaling 20%, 18% and 11% of tZERO's revenues. During the year ended December 31, 2016, tZERO recognized revenue from three customers of SpeedRoute and PRO Securities totaling 22%, 16% and 15% of tZERO's revenues. tZERO's income and ability to meet its financial obligations could also be adversely affected in the event of bankruptcy, insolvency or significant downturn in the business of one of these customers.. A violation of privacy or data protection laws could have a material adverse effect on tZERO and the value of the tZERO Security Tokens.. tZERO and certain of its subsidiaries and advisors are subject to applicable privacy and data protection laws and regulations. Any violations of laws and regulations relating to the safeguarding of private information could subject tZERO or any of them to fines, penalties or other regulatory actions, as well as to civil actions by affected parties. Any such violations could adversely affect the ability of tZERO to operate the Token Trading System, which could have a material adverse effect on tZERO's operations and financial condition and a material adverse effect on us.. 43. tZERO and its subsidiaries are, and the Token Trading System, if developed, and the blockchain technology to be utilized by such Token Trading System will be, subject to cyber-attacks, security risks and risks of security breaches. The nature of the tZERO Security Tokens may lead to an increased risk of fraud or cyber-attack.. tZERO and its subsidiaries are, and the Token Trading System, if developed, and the blockchain technology to be utilized by such Token Trading System will be, subject to cyber-attacks, security risks and risks of security breaches. An attack on any of them or a breach of security of any of them could result in a loss of private data, unauthorized trades, and an interruption of trading for an extended period of time. Any such attack or breach could adversely affect the ability of tZERO to effectively operate the Token Trading System, which could have a material adverse effect on tZERO's operations and financial condition.. Such an attack may also damage tZERO's reputation and any breach of data security that exposes or compromises the security of any of the private digital keys used to authorize or validate transaction orders, or that enables any unauthorized person to generate any of the private digital keys, could result in unauthorized trades. The Series A Software Platform and any Token Trading System developed in the future has been and will be, as applicable, developed by key technology employees of tZERO and its affiliates, and their operation and further development depend on the continued availability of those key employees.. The Series A Software Platform, and any Token Trading System that may be developed in the future, including technology and intellectual property involved in their creation and operation, has been or will be, as applicable, developed primarily by a small number of key technology employees of tZERO and its affiliates. The loss of the services of any of those key employees could have a material adverse effect on the ability of tZERO to develop, operate or maintain the Series A Software Platform or the Token Trading System. If tZERO were to lose the services of any such key employees, it could be difficult or impossible to replace them, and the loss of any of them could have a material adverse effect on tZERO's operations and financial condition.. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could result in claims against tZERO and us and could have a material adverse effect on us and the holders of our securities.. The development and operation of tZERO's business, including the Series A Software Platform and any Token Trading System that may be developed in the future requires, will likely require, technology and intellectual property rights.. The ability of tZERO to develop and operate the Series A Software Platform and any Token Trading System that may be developed in the future may depend on technology and intellectual property rights that tZERO may license from unaffiliated third parties. If for any reason tZERO were to fail to comply with its obligations under the applicable license agreement, or were unable to provide or were to fail to provide the technology and intellectual property that the Series A Software Platform or any future Token Trading System requires, they would be unable to operate, which would have a material adverse effect on tZERO's operations and financial condition and could have a material adverse effect on us.. tZERO may face substantial competition from a number of known and unknown competitors as well as the risk that one or more of them may obtain patents covering technology critical to the operation of the Series A Software Platform or any future Token Trading System.. We believe that a number of organizations are or may be working to develop trading systems utilizing distributed ledger or blockchain technologies or other novel technologies that may be competitive with tZERO's own technology. Some or all of such organizations may have substantially greater technological expertise, experience with distributed ledger technologies and/or financial resources than tZERO or Overstock has, and many of them appear to be attempting to patent technologies that may be competitive with or similar to the technology tZERO has developed. tZERO does not have access to detailed information about the technologies these organizations and/or their respective purchasers may be attempting to patent. If one or more other persons, companies or organizations obtains a valid patent covering technology critical to the Series A Software Platform or any future Token Trading System, tZERO and the other entities that need the relevant technology in order to enable the Series A Software Platform or Token Trading System to operate as intended might be unable or unwilling to license the technology, and it could become impossible for the Series A Software Platform or Token Trading System to operate, which could have a material adverse effect on tZERO's operations and financial condition and a material adverse effect on us.. 44. Risks Related to Our Common Stock and Other Securities. The trading prices of our common stock and preferred shares have increased substantially recently. If blockchain technology development or acceptance slows or stops, or if the trading prices of cryptocurrency decrease, the trading prices of our securities may decrease dramatically. If we determine not to sell our Company or our e-commerce business or make other fundamental changes to our business, the trading prices of our securities may decrease significantly. The trading prices of our securities may also decrease significantly if we determine to take any such actions.. The trading prices of our common stock and preferred shares have increased substantially recently. In the third quarter of 2017 our common stock traded at a low of $14.30; in the fourth quarter of 2017 it traded at a high of $82.70. We believe that our securities prices have been, and may continue to be, significantly impacted by perceptions regarding the business prospects of our Medici business and blockchain technology generally. To the extent that our blockchain initiatives do not succeed, or the development or acceptance of blockchain networks, blockchain assets or blockchain applications slows or stops, our securities prices could decrease significantly. See \"Risks Relating to Our tZERO Initiatives - Risks Related to Blockchain Technology\" for risks associated with the development of blockchain networks. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate as a direct reflection of the trading prices of Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies, which may cause significant volatility and declines in our stock price. In addition, to the extent that our securities price increases resulted from our disclosures about our exploration of strategic initiatives, any decision or announcement of a decision we may make not to pursue any such strategic initiatives could cause the trading prices of our securities to decrease significantly. The trading prices of our securities could also decrease significantly if we make or announce any decision to go forward with or pursue any such strategic initiatives.. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and you may lose the entire amount of your investment in our common stock.. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, holders of our common stock will not receive any funds without selling their shares. You may not receive a positive return on your investment, and you may lose your entire investment.. Sales by our significant stockholders could have an adverse effect on the market price of common stock and preferred stock.. A small number of our stockholders own a significant percentage of our common stock. Our Chief Executive Officer Patrick Byrne is the beneficial owner of approximately 23.0% of our outstanding shares. Various trusts related to his mother Dorothy Byrne are the beneficial owners of an additional aggregate of approximately 5.5% of our stock. Sales by Dr. Byrne or any of such trusts could have a material adverse effect on the market prices of our common stock and preferred stock. In addition, the transfer of ownership of a significant portion of our outstanding shares within a three-year period could adversely affect our ability to use our net operating losses to offset future taxable net income. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on the holders of our common stock and holders of our preferred stock.. Our quarterly operating results are volatile and may adversely affect the market prices of our common stock and preferred stock, and you may lose all or a part of your investment.. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience significant fluctuations in our operating results in part because of seasonal fluctuations in traditional retail patterns. Our gross revenues have historically been significantly lower in the first and second calendar quarters than in the fourth quarter of the prior year due primarily to increased shopping activity during the fourth quarter holiday season. Further, we generally increase our inventories substantially in anticipation of holiday season shopping activity, which has a negative effect on our cash flow. As a result of the fourth quarter holiday season shopping, we also typically have unusually large payments due to our fulfillment partners in the first calendar quarter. Our revenues and operating results have varied in the past and may continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition to seasonal effects and the other risk factors described in this report, factors that have caused and/or could cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate and in turn affect the market prices of our common stock and preferred stock include:. • increases in the cost of advertising and changes in our sales and marketing expenditures;. • expenses we incur in our Medici development efforts;. • our inability to retain existing customers or encourage repeat purchases;. • the extent to which our existing and future marketing campaigns are successful;. • price competition, particularly in the costs of marketing as well as in product pricing;. • the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures;. 45. • the amount and timing of our purchases of inventory;. • our inability to manage distribution operations or provide adequate levels of customer service;. • increases in the cost of fuel, transportation or distribution;. • our inability to implement technology changes or integrate operations and technologies from acquisitions or other business combinations;. • our efforts to offer new lines of products and services; and. • our inability to attract users to our website.. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business and our ability to raise capital, and could have a material adverse effect on the holders of our common stock and of our preferred stock.. Our outstanding preferred stock could adversely affect the holders of our common stock in some circumstances.. We have two series of preferred stock outstanding. The preferred stock could adversely affect the holders of our common stock in some circumstances. The preferred stock generally votes with the common stock, with holders of the preferred stock having one vote for each share held. As of December 31, 2017, the 681,259 outstanding shares of preferred stock constituted approximately 2.4% of the total number of shares of the preferred stock and the common stock, taken together. The preferred stock ranks senior to the common stock with respect to dividends, is entitled to an annual cash dividend of $0.16 per share in preference to any dividend on the common stock, and is generally entitled to participate in any dividends we pay on the common stock. The preferred stock ranks equally with the common stock upon our liquidation, winding up or dissolution. Generally, in a business combination, each share of the preferred stock would be treated as a share of common stock. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on the holders of the common stock.. We may issue additional preferred stock without further stockholder approval, for purposes of a stockholder rights plan or for other purposes, and any such preferred stock could entitle the holders to rights superior to those of the holders of our common stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board to designate and issue preferred stock on such terms as may be approved by the board without further stockholder approval. Our board could do so in connection with the adoption of a stockholder rights plan or for other reasons. Preferred stock could be issued with rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of our common stock. In addition, the issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of making an acquisition of our Company more difficult or costly. We currently have 1,000,000 authorized shares of preferred stock undesignated as to series, and we could cause shares currently designated as to series but not outstanding to become undesignated and available for issuance as a series of preferred stock to be designated in the future.. Our Board of Directors or the compensation committee could accelerate the vesting of outstanding restricted stock units upon a sale of the Company or otherwise, which could result in an increase in the number of shares outstanding.. The compensation committee of our board has granted and expects to grant additional restricted stock units (\"RSUs\") to certain of our employees and directors. Upon vesting, we issue one share of common stock for every RSU held. The board or the compensation committee could determine to accelerate the vesting of RSUs in the event of a sale of our company or otherwise, which would result in an increase in the number of shares outstanding, and would dilute stockholders' ownership of our company. Although the number of RSUs outstanding changes frequently, if all RSUs outstanding were vested as of December 31, 2017, the RSUs would convert into approximately 540,000 shares of our common stock, or approximately 2.0% of the number of shares of common stock currently outstanding.. We generally have not received significant coverage by securities analysts, and the lack of coverage may adversely affect our share price and trading volume.. We generally have not received significant coverage by securities analysts, and the lack of coverage may adversely affect our share price and trading volume. The lack of coverage may cause our share price or trading volume to be lower than they might be if more analysts covered us.. Anti-takeover provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions which could have the effect of rendering more difficult, delaying, or preventing an acquisition deemed undesirable. 46. by our Board of Directors. Among other things, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include provisions:. • authorizing \"blank check\" preferred stock, which could be issued by our Board of Directors without stockholder approval and may contain voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock;. • limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers;. • limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings;. • providing that our Board of Directors is classified into three classes of directors with staggered three-year terms;. • only permitting the Board of Directors to fix the number of directors and to fill vacancies;. • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors;. • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders;. • requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our Board of Directors;. • controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of Board of Directors and stockholder meetings; and. • designating a state court located in the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for specified matters.. These provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management.. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation law, which prevents certain stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of at least two-thirds of our outstanding common stock not held by such 15% or greater stockholder.. Any provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock or other securities and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock or other securities.. Additional Risks Related Primarily to our Series A Preferred Stock. Our Series A Preferred and the tZERO Platform are substantially different from other securities traded in the U.S. public markets, and are subject to a variety of unusual restrictions and material risks.. Our Series A Preferred can trade only on a registered alternative trading system (the \"PRO Securities ATS\") operated by our indirect majority-owned subsidiary PRO Securities LLC (\"PRO Securities\") utilizing technology known as the tZERO Issuance and Trading Platform (the \"tZERO Platform\"). Trades of the Series A Preferred settle on the trade date. The Series A Preferred is not and will not be listed on any securities exchange or any other market of any kind. The Series A Preferred is extraordinarily illiquid. Only ten trades in the Series A Preferred have taken place since we issued the Series A Preferred in December 2016. Shares of Series A Preferred can be held only in an online brokerage account with Keystone Capital Corporation (\"Keystone\") and cannot be held in any other account or manner, and only certain persons and entities may purchase Series A Preferred. As a result of these and other matters, the market for the Series A Preferred is likely to remain extraordinarily illiquid and it may be impossible to sell any shares of the Series A Preferred.. The technology on which the tZERO Platform depends has been developed by our majority-owned subsidiary, tZERO, and is licensed by its subsidiary, PRO Securities, and the Series A Preferred depends on both tZERO and on PRO Securities, neither of which has substantial resources.. tZERO is a majority-owned subsidiary of ours and owns 100% of the equity interest in PRO Securities. tZERO licenses the tZERO Platform to PRO Securities, and PRO Securities operates the PRO Securities ATS. tZERO also licenses the tZERO Platform to the Company for the Company's use in connection with the Series A Preferred. Neither tZERO nor PRO Securities has substantial resources. PRO Securities had net capital of approximately $24,175 at December 31, 2017. Neither tZERO nor PRO Securities has any legally binding commitment from any person, including the Company, to contribute additional capital or to make any loan to either of them. If any one or more of the Company, tZERO or PRO Securities were unable to fund its operations in the future, or if any one or more of them were to become the subject of a bankruptcy or other insolvency proceeding, PRO Securities might be unable to continue to operate the tZERO Platform, and the Series A Preferred could be materially adversely affected. In any such event, holders of our capital stock, including the Series A Preferred, could lose their entire investment in our capital stock, including all amounts invested in the Series A Preferred.. 47. Accounts for the Series A Preferred are held directly in the customer's name, rather than in \"street name,\" and the complete trading history of each digital wallet is available to the general public and it may be possible for members of the public to determine the identity of the holders of wallets.. Each investor in the Series A Preferred is required to open an online brokerage account in his, her or its name with Keystone. Investors cannot hold their Series A Preferred in \"street name.\" The Series A Preferred shares are directly recorded on our stockholder books and records maintained by Computershare Trust Company, N.A. (\"Computershare\"). The tZERO Platform makes trade data publicly available shortly after each trade. Although the trade data that the tZERO Platform makes publicly available is anonymous, the publicly available information includes the digital wallet address (the location where records of transactions and balances involving the series A Preferred are stored) of each holder transacting in Series A Preferred, and the entire trading history of each digital wallet (including the number of securities traded by each digital wallet, the price of each trade and the balance of the securities held in each digital wallet). As a result, the trading history of each digital wallet is available to the general public. In addition, because all holders of the Series A Preferred are holders of record, all of them are subject to the risk of loss of their anonymity.. The Series A Preferred and any development of a trading market for the Series A Preferred depends on both Keystone and its clearing broker, ETC.. The Series A Preferred depends on the continuing business operations of both Keystone and Electronic Transaction Clearing, Inc. (\"ETC\"). Keystone is the only broker dealer authorized to provide the accounts required to acquire, hold and trade shares of Series A Preferred, and ETC is the clearing broker for Keystone with respect to the Series A Preferred. Any failure of either Keystone or ETC to continue operating its business in the ordinary course or to satisfactorily perform their respective obligations could make it impossible to trade Series A Preferred for an extended period of time.. A violation of privacy or data protection laws could have a material adverse effect on PRO Securities, tZERO or other entities, the tZERO Platform and the Series A Preferred.. PRO Securities, tZERO and other entities relevant to the operation of the PRO Securities ATS utilizing the tZERO Platform, including Keystone, ETC and Computershare, are subject to applicable privacy and data protection laws and regulations. Any violations of laws and regulations relating to the safeguarding of private information could subject us or any of them to fines, penalties or other regulatory actions, as well as to civil actions by affected parties. Any such violations could adversely affect the ability of PRO Securities to operate the PRO Securities ATS or to use the tZERO Platform, either of which could have a material adverse effect on holders' ability to trade Series A Preferred.. PRO Securities, tZERO, the PRO Securities ATS, the tZERO Platform and the other entities relevant to the operation of the PRO Securities ATS are subject to cyber-attacks, security risks and risks of security breaches.. PRO Securities, tZERO, the PRO Securities ATS, the tZERO Platform and the other entities relevant to the operation of the PRO Securities ATS utilizing the tZERO Platform, including Keystone, ETC and Computershare, are all subject to cyber-attacks, security risks and risks of security breaches. An attack on any of them or a breach of security of any of them could result in a loss of private data, unauthorized trades, and an interruption of trading for an extended period of time. Any such attack or breach could adversely affect the ability of PRO Securities to operate the PRO Securities ATS or to utilize the tZERO Platform, or both, any of which could have a material adverse effect on holders' ability to trade the Series A Preferred. Any breach of data security that compromises the security of any of the private digital keys used to authorize or validate transaction orders, or that enables any unauthorized person to generate any of the private digital keys, could result in unauthorized trades and would have a material adverse effect on the Series A Preferred. Because trades on the PRO Securities ATS utilizing the tZERO Platform settle on the trade date, it could be impossible to correct unauthorized trades.. In the event of the insolvency of Keystone or ETC, the Securities Investor Protection Corporation would be unable to cause the return of shares of Series A Preferred until a substitute for Keystone or ETC, as applicable, was in place.. The Securities Investor Protection Corporation (\"SIPC\") oversees the liquidation of member broker dealers that close when the broker dealer is bankrupt or in financial trouble, and customer assets are missing. In a liquidation under the Securities Investor Protection Act, SIPC and a court-appointed trustee typically work to return customers' securities and cash. Within limits, SIPC expedites the return of missing customer property by protecting each customer up to $500,000 for securities and cash (including a $250,000 limit for cash only). If Keystone or ETC were to become insolvent, the structure of the trading system for the Series A Preferred could cause delays in the return of Series A Preferred until a substitute for Keystone or ETC, as applicable, was in place, which could have a material adverse effect on holders of Series A Preferred.. 48. Certain transactions involving the Series A Preferred will require manual intervention, which could result in errors, and it impossible to correct trading errors of any nature, in the Series A Preferred, regardless of the source of the error.. All ordinary course Series A Preferred purchase and sale transactions initiated by purchasers and sellers through their Keystone accounts are executed on the PRO Securities ATS utilizing the automated processes of the tZERO Platform, without separate manual intervention by any of the relevant parties. Extraordinary transactions, however, may require manual intervention, which would be initiated by employees of ETC through the tZERO Platform. In any situation involving manual intervention, there is a risk of human error. The same-day settlement of trades on the PRO Securities ATS utilizing the tZERO Platform also means that any error, regardless of the source of the error, may be impossible to correct, which could have a material adverse effect on holders of Series A Preferred.. Trading in the Series A Preferred depends on the operation and functionality of the PRO Securities ATS, on tZERO's proprietary tZERO Platform and on the Proprietary Ledger.. The Series A Preferred trades exclusively on the PRO Securities ATS utilizing the tZERO Platform. The ATS is operated and maintained by PRO Securities, and the tZERO Platform is maintained by tZERO. Each of PRO Securities and tZERO is a direct or indirect majority-owned subsidiary of the Company, and neither of them has substantial resources. If the PRO Securities ATS or the tZERO Platform were to fail to operate as intended for any reason, trading in the Series A Preferred could be impossible until the failure was corrected and full functionality of the affected system or systems were restored and tested. Further, if the Proprietary Ledger were to fail to operate as intended, or were to become unavailable to us in its current form and functionality for any reason, the tZERO Platform might be unable to publish trade data or to provide trade data to ETC and to the transfer agent. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our ability to execute or settle trades of Series A Preferred, to maintain accurate records of the ownership of the Series A Preferred and to comply with our obligations relating to records of the ownership of the Series A Preferred and a material adverse effect on the holders of the Series A Preferred.. The Series A Preferred depends on Computershare as the transfer agent for the Series A Preferred.. Computershare serves as the transfer agent for both the Series A Preferred and the Series B Preferred. If Computershare were unable or unwilling for any reason to serve as the transfer agent for the Series A Preferred, trading in the Series A Preferred would be impossible unless we were able to locate another transfer agent able and willing to serve as a replacement transfer agent for the Series A Preferred. We estimate that a transition from Computershare to a replacement transfer agent would take approximately three months; however, any such transition could take longer, during which time it would be impossible to trade in the Series A Preferred, which would have a material adverse effect on the holders of the Series A Preferred.. The tZERO Platform relies on technology and intellectual property rights licensed from tZERO to PRO Securities.. The ability of PRO Securities to operate the PRO Securities ATS utilizing the tZERO Platform depends on technology and intellectual property rights that PRO Securities licenses from our majority-owned subsidiary tZERO. Keystone, ETC and Computershare, in the performance of their respective obligations, also depend on the technology and intellectual property rights that they license (or have licensed on their behalf) from tZERO. tZERO has filed both provisional and non-provisional patent applications covering numerous aspects of the technology relating to the tZERO Platform, none of which have been granted. We believe that a number of organizations are or may be working to develop trading systems utilizing distributed ledger or blockchain technologies that may be competitive with the tZERO Platform. Some or all of such organizations and/or their respective investors have substantially greater resources than tZERO or we have, and many or all of them may be attempting to patent technologies that may be competitive with or similar to the technology tZERO has developed. If third parties obtain patents covering any or all of the technology relating to the tZERO Platform, or if the rights of tZERO to the technology or intellectual property necessary for the operation of the tZERO Platform were otherwise invalidated or limited, or if tZERO were to fail to comply with its obligations under the applicable license agreement, or for any other reason were unable to provide the technology and intellectual property that PRO Securities requires, PRO Securities would be unable to operate the PRO Securities ATS utilizing the tZERO Platform, which would have a material adverse effect on the holders of the Series A Preferred.. The potential application of U.S. laws regarding traditional investment securities to the Series A Preferred is unclear.. The commercial law regarding traditional investment securities in the United States is well-developed. Article 8 of the Uniform Commercial Code as adopted in most states, including Delaware, provides a set of rules that governs common aspects. 49. of securities transfers and related matters. Because of the differences between the Series A Preferred and traditional investment securities, there is a risk that issues that might easily be resolved by existing law if traditional securities were involved may not be easily resolved for the Series A Preferred. The occurrence of any such issue or dispute could have a material adverse effect on the holders of Series A Preferred.. The potential application of U.S. laws regarding virtual currencies and money transmission to PRO Securities' use of the Bitcoin blockchain is unclear.. Existing state and federal laws applicable to various activities of persons exchanging or otherwise using virtual currencies, in some cases expressly including Bitcoin, impose prohibitions and require licensing or registration requirements and impose substantive regulations on such persons. Many more states impose licensing and substantive regulation on persons engaging in various activities relating to money transmission, some of which do or may apply to the transmission of virtual currencies such as Bitcoin. The failure to be properly licensed and registered if required under any of these state or federal laws can be a criminal offense. The tZERO Platform uses the Bitcoin blockchain for the purpose of enabling members of the public to confirm that the public copies of the Proprietary Ledger have not been altered. None of the parties involved in the operation of the tZERO Platform is licensed under the virtual currency or money transmission regulations of any state in the United States or registered with the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (\"FinCEN\") of the U.S. Department of the Treasury. Although we do not believe that the operation of the tZERO Platform requires such licensing or registration, if any regulatory authority were to assert otherwise, it could have a material adverse effect on the ability of the parties involved in the operation of the tZERO Platform to publish Series A Preferred trade data to the Bitcoin blockchain, which could have a material adverse effect on the holders of the Series A Preferred.. The potential application of foreign laws to the tZERO Platform is unclear.. Any person opening an account with Keystone will be required to represent that doing so and acquiring shares of Series A Preferred will not cause a violation of any law, rule or regulation of any jurisdiction outside of the United States and will not subject us or PRO Securities or the tZERO Platform to regulation by any authority in any jurisdiction outside of the United States. We also limit purchasers of Series A Preferred to certain U.S. residents, entities and trusts. If we became subject to any law, rule or regulation of any jurisdiction outside of the United States, it could have a material adverse effect on the ability of PRO Securities to operate the tZERO Platform and on the Series A Preferred, which would have a material adverse effect on the holders of the Series A Preferred.. Regulatory or factual developments may adversely affect the tZERO Platform.. Neither PRO Securities nor tZERO is registered as a transfer agent under the Exchange Act. If PRO Securities or tZERO were required to register as a transfer agent, the process would be expensive and one or both entities might be unable to do so. Further, future regulatory developments could otherwise affect the tZERO Platform or the ability of PRO Securities to operate the tZERO Platform. To the extent that any current or future regulatory requirements adversely affect the ability of PRO Securities to operate the tZERO Platform or its ability to utilize the Bitcoin blockchain, such regulatory requirements would have a material adverse effect on the holders of the Series A Preferred.. Holders of Series A Preferred are at risk of fee and commission increases by Keystone.. At present the tZERO Platform does not allow more than a single broker dealer to provide access to the system. The lack of an alternative broker dealer to provide access to the tZERO Platform may subject customers to the risk of fee and commission increases by Keystone. Keystone has agreed to limits on the fees and commissions it will charge to customers who trade shares of the Series A Preferred; however, if PRO Securities and tZERO agree to amend the relevant agreements to permit increases to those limits, or if such agreements or the provisions regarding such matters were ineffective for any reason, it could have a material adverse effect on holders of the Series A Preferred.. We have the right to convert the outstanding shares of Series A Preferred into shares of Series B Preferred at any time, even if the Series B Preferred is trading for substantially less than the Series A Preferred, and the terms of the Series B Preferred could be amended after the issuance of the Series B Preferred without the consent of the holders of the Series A Preferred.. We have the right to cause the conversion of all outstanding shares of Series A Preferred into shares of Series B Preferred at any time. If we were to do so at a time when the Series B Preferred were trading at a price lower than the trading price of the Series A Preferred, holders of Series A Preferred would likely experience an immediate and potentially material decrease in the market value of the Series A Preferred they hold and of the Series B Preferred they would receive upon the conversion. Investors should not purchase shares of Series A Preferred unless they are willing to hold shares of Series B. 50. Preferred in lieu of shares of Series A Preferred. In addition, the terms of the Series B Preferred may be amended at any time without the consent of the holders of the Series A Preferred. Consequently, holders of Series A Preferred are subject to the risk that their shares could be converted into shares of Series B Preferred having terms different from those of the Series B Preferred at the date of its issuance or at the date of a holder's acquisition of Series A Preferred. Any such amendment of the Series B Preferred could have a material adverse effect on holders of Series A Preferred.. The restrictions on the tax reporting of holder's cost basis in shares of Series A Preferred will not allow normal tax planning in the sale of shares of Series A Preferred, and may result in disadvantageous tax consequences to a seller of Series A Preferred.. Taxpayers must report gains and losses on sales of securities, and related cost basis information when they file their income tax returns. Brokers, including Keystone, also have a requirement to report sales information to the IRS. Holders of most securities typically can elect one of several methods permitted by the IRS for their reporting of their cost basis in securities. However, only one method of cost basis reporting (the first-in, first-out, or FIFO, method) is available for the Series A Preferred. Sellers of Series A Preferred will not be able to elect any method other than FIFO to report their sales information to the IRS. As a result, sellers of Series A Preferred may be required to pay more tax on their sales or to pay taxes earlier than might have been required if other methods of cost basis reporting had been available, which could have a material adverse effect on the holders of Series A Preferred.. Additional Risks Related to our Series A Preferred Stock and our Series B Preferred Stock. We do not intend to issue any additional shares of either Series A Preferred or Series B Preferred, which is expected to continue to result in very limited trading in each series.. Although we have the right to convert the outstanding shares of Series A Preferred into Series B Preferred, we do not intend to issue any additional shares of Series A Preferred or any additional shares of Series B Preferred. Consequently, we expect trading of the Series A Preferred and the Series B Preferred to be limited to the shares we issued in the rights offering. As a result, trading in the Series A Preferred and the Series B Preferred may be very limited.. We do not expect there to be any market makers to develop a trading market in the Series A Preferred, and there is only one market maker in the Series B Preferred.. Most securities that are publicly traded in the United States have one or more broker dealers acting as \"market makers\" for the security. A market maker is a firm that stands ready to buy and sell the security on a regular and continuous basis at publicly quoted prices. Currently, to our knowledge, there is only one market maker in the Series B Preferred. Further, we do not believe that the Series A Preferred will ever have any market makers. We expect the lack of market makers to continue to contribute to a lack of liquidity in the Series A Preferred and in the Series B Preferred, which could have a material adverse effect on holders' ability to trade either of them.. Rule 144 will not be available for resales of \"restricted shares\" of Series A Preferred, and Rule 144 volume limitations on resales of Series B Preferred would be very low.. Persons, including non-affiliates of a public company such as the Company, who acquire shares directly or indirectly from the public company, or from an affiliate of the public company, in a transaction or chain of transactions not involving any public offering, or otherwise as described in Rule 144, acquire \"restricted shares\" for purposes of Rule 144. Although Rule 144 permits public sales of \"restricted shares\" subject to certain conditions, we do not expect Rule 144 ever to be available for any sales of Series A Preferred, and the sale of any such shares may be difficult or impossible. Further, because of the limited number of shares of Series B Preferred outstanding, the volume limitations of Rule 144 may severely limit sales of Series B Preferred under Rule 144.. We will have an economic incentive to repurchase Series A Preferred and Series B Preferred at prices below the redemption price, and our doing so could cause the trading prices of Series A Preferred and Series B Preferred, as applicable, to decrease further.. Subject to applicable laws and regulations regarding issuer repurchases of their capital stock, we could repurchase shares of the Series A Preferred or Series B Preferred. If we repurchase any shares, we would do so only at or below the prices at which we could redeem shares. Because our right to redeem the Series A Preferred and the Series B Preferred will be at prices that will vary with the price of our common stock as well as the prices of the Series A Preferred and the Series B Preferred, respectively, and in any case would be no less than the Subscription Price, we will have an economic incentive to. 51. repurchase the shares at their trading prices from time to time if those prices are lower than the prices at which we would be entitled to redeem the shares. If we repurchase (or redeem) shares of either Series A Preferred or Series B Preferred, the trading market for the shares would become less liquid, which could cause the trading prices to decrease further, giving us an economic incentive to repurchase additional shares. The occurrence of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on holders of Series A Preferred, the holders of Series B Preferred, or both.. A share of Series A Preferred and/or Series B Preferred may have a substantially lower market value than a share of our common stock.. The trading prices of the Series A Preferred and the Series B Preferred may be substantially lower than the trading price of our common stock at any time. The market for the Series B Preferred is expected to have substantially less liquidity than the market for our common stock, which is traded on the Nasdaq Global Market, and the market for the Series A Preferred has been and is expected to remain even more limited. The Series B Preferred trades in the over-the-counter market rather than on any securities exchange, and the Series A Preferred trades exclusively on the PRO Securities ATS utilizing the tZERO Platform, which is a closed trading platform. Consequently, the trading prices of the Series A Preferred and the Series B Preferred may both be substantially lower than the trading price of our common stock, which could have a material adverse effect on holders of Series A Preferred and holders of Series B Preferred.. Holders of Series A Preferred and/or Series B Preferred have no rights with respect to our common stock, but they may be adversely affected by certain events or changes made with respect to our common stock.. Holders of our Series A Preferred and our Series B Preferred have no rights with respect to our common stock, and no right to convert their Series A Preferred or Series B Preferred into shares of common stock or to exchange their Series A Preferred or Series B Preferred for shares of common stock, except that such holders have the right to vote with the common stock (together with the holders of the other series of Preferred Stock) on any matter submitted to a vote of the holders of the common stock, the right to receive payments upon liquidation with the holders of the common stock (together with the holders of the other series of Preferred Stock) and the right to receive dividends (together with the holders of the other series of Preferred Stock) in preference to the holders of the common stock and to participate in cash dividends, if any, paid on the common stock. Holders of Preferred Stock do not have other rights of the holders of the common stock, including the right to respond to common stock tender offers, if any, and their investment in the Series A Preferred and/or the Series B Preferred may be materially negatively affected by any such event. Holders' lack of any such rights, or the occurrence of any such event, could have a material adverse effect on holders of Series A Preferred and holders of Series B Preferred.. Voting rights of holders of Preferred Stock generally will be limited to voting together with the holders of the common stock as a single class, and the holders of the Series A Preferred and the holders of the Series B Preferred collectively will have only a small percentage of the voting power on any matter submitted to the holders of the common stock and the Series A Preferred and Series B Preferred, voting together as a single class.. Voting rights of holders of Preferred Stock generally will be limited to voting together with the holders of the common stock as a single class. Neither the holders of the Series A Preferred nor the holders of the Series B Preferred have any right by themselves, either together or as separate classes, to elect any members of our Board of Directors. As of December 31, 2017, the 681,259 shares of Preferred Stock outstanding represented approximately 2.4% of the combined voting power of the Series A Preferred, the Series B Preferred and the common stock, voting together as a single class. If an amendment requiring stockholder approval is proposed to our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or our Amended and Restated Bylaws, the holders of the Series A Preferred and the holders of the Series B Preferred will vote together with the holders of the common stock as a single class, but neither the holders of the Series A Preferred nor the holders of the Series B Preferred will be entitled to a class vote on the amendment, unless the proposed amendment would adversely affect the special rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series A Preferred or Series B Preferred, respectively. Holders' limited voting rights and any of the foregoing events could have a material adverse effect on holders of Series A Preferred and holders of Series B.. The Series A Preferred and the Series B Preferred rank junior to all of our and our subsidiaries' liabilities, as well as the capital stock of our subsidiaries held by third parties, in the event of a bankruptcy, liquidation or winding up of our or our subsidiaries' business.. In the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or winding up, our assets will be available to make payments to holders of Series A Preferred and to holders of Series B Preferred only after all of our liabilities have been paid, and neither the Series A Preferred nor the Series B Preferred will have any preference over the common stock in the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or winding up. In addition, the Series A Preferred and Series B Preferred will rank structurally junior to all existing and future. 52. liabilities of our subsidiaries, as well as the capital stock of our subsidiaries held by third parties, including employees holding shares of our majority-owned subsidiary tZERO and employees holding shares of any other direct or indirect subsidiary of ours, whether now existing or created in the future. Any bankruptcy, liquidation or winding up of the Company or any of its wholly or partially owned subsidiaries would have a material adverse effect on holders of Series A Preferred and holders of Series B Preferred.. Our obligation to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred or on the Series B Preferred is limited, and our ability to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred and on the Series B Preferred may be limited.. Our obligation to pay preferential dividends on the Series A Preferred and the Series B Preferred is subject to our Board of Directors declaring such dividend payments. Further, although we will be contractually restricted from paying a dividend on the common stock unless we have paid preferential cumulative 1.0% annual dividends on the Series A Preferred and the Series B Preferred, we have never paid a dividend on the common stock and we have no current intent to do so. Consequently, our failure to pay preferential dividends on the Series A Preferred and on the Series B Preferred might have no legal effect on us at all, although it could adversely affect the trading prices of the Series A Preferred and of the Series B Preferred. Further, our payment of any dividends will be subject to contractual and legal restrictions and other factors the board deems relevant. Moreover, agreements governing any future indebtedness of ours may further limit our ability to pay dividends on our capital stock, including the Series A Preferred and the Series B Preferred. In addition, our ability to pay dividends is limited by applicable law. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on the holders of the Series A Preferred and the holders of the Series B Preferred.. Purchasers of the Series A Preferred and of the Series B Preferred may be adversely affected by our issuance of any subsequent series of preferred stock.. Neither the terms of the Series A Preferred nor the terms of the Series B Preferred restrict our ability to issue one or more additional new series of preferred stock, any or all of which may rank equally with or have preferences over the Series A Preferred and the Series B Preferred as to dividend payments, voting rights, rights upon liquidation or other types of rights. We will have no obligation to consider the specific interests of the holders of Series A Preferred or the specific interests of the holders of Series B Preferred in creating any such new series of preferred stock or engaging in any such offering or transaction. Our creation of any such new series of preferred stock or our engaging in any such offering or transaction could have a material adverse effect on the holders of Series A Preferred and the holders of Series B Preferred.. It is uncertain whether the IRS will treat the Series A Preferred and Series B Preferred as common stock or preferred stock for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. We intend to treat the Series A Preferred and Series B Preferred as common stock for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Nevertheless, it is unclear whether the IRS will treat the Series A Preferred and Series B Preferred as common stock for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the IRS were not to treat either the Series A Preferred or the Series B Preferred as common stock for U.S. federal income tax purposes, it could have a material adverse effect on the holders of Series A Preferred and the holders of Series B Preferred."
