[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our common stock contains a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the following risk factors before deciding whether to invest in our securities. Our business, including our operating results and financial condition, could be harmed by any of these risks. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business. The trading price of our securities could decline due to any of these risks and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained in our filings with the SEC, including our financial statements and related notes. Actual dollar amounts are used in this Item 1 A. \"Risk Factors\" section.. Risks Related to Our Industry. The highly cyclical nature of supply and demand in the industry may lead to volatile changes in charter rates and vessel values, which could adversely affect the Company's earnings, liquidity and available cash.. The marine transportation industry is both cyclical and volatile in terms of charter rates and profitability. Fluctuations in charter rates and vessel values result from changes in supply and demand both for tanker capacity and for oil and oil products. Factors affecting these changes in supply and demand are generally outside of the Company's control. The nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable and could adversely affect the values of the Company's vessels or result in significant fluctuations in the amount of charter revenues the Company earns, which could result in significant volatility in OSG's quarterly results and cash flows. Factors influencing the demand for tanker capacity include:. • supply and demand for, and availability of, energy resources such as oil, oil products and natural gas, which affect customers' need for vessel capacity;. • global and regional economic and political conditions, including armed conflicts, terrorist activities and strikes, that among other things could impact the supply of oil, as well as trading patterns and the demand for various vessel types;. • regional availability of refining capacity and inventories;. • changes in the production levels of crude oil (including in particular production by OPEC, the United States and other key producers);. • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including changes in the distances that cargoes are transported, changes in the price of crude oil and changes to the West Texas Intermediate and Brent Crude Oil pricing benchmarks;. • environmental and other legal and regulatory developments and concerns;. • construction or expansion of new or existing pipelines or railways;. • weather and natural disasters;. • competition from alternative sources of energy; and. • international sanctions, embargoes, import and export restrictions or nationalizations and wars.. Many of the factors that influence the demand for tanker capacity will also, in the longer term, effectively influence the supply of tanker capacity, since decisions to build new capacity, invest in capital repairs, or to retain in service older capacity are influenced by the general state of the marine transportation industry from time to time. Factors influencing the supply of vessel capacity include:. • the number of newbuilding deliveries;. • the conversion of vessels from transporting oil and oil products to carrying dry bulk cargo or vice versa;. • the number of vessels that are removed from service, whether via scrapping or conversion to storage or other means;. • availability and pricing of other energy sources such as natural gas for which tankers can be used or to which construction capacity may be dedicated;. • port or canal congestion; and. • environmental and maritime regulations.. The market value of vessels fluctuates significantly, which could adversely affect OSG's liquidity or otherwise adversely affect its financial condition.. Jones Act vessel market values have, on average, generally declined over the past several years; however the market value of Jones Act vessels has fluctuated over time an dis based upon various factors, including:. • age of the vessel;. • general economic and market conditions affecting the tanker industry, including the availability of vessel financing;. • number of vessels in the Jones Act fleet;. 15 Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc.. • types and sizes of vessels available;. • changes in trading patterns affecting demand for particular sizes and types of vessels;. • cost of newbuildings;. • prevailing level of charter rates;. • competition from other shipping companies and from other modes of transportation; and. • technological advances in vessel design and propulsion.. The fluctuating market values of the vessels can impact the Company's liquidity regardless of whether the Company sells the vessels or continues to hold the vessels.  For example, if OSG sells a vessel at a sale price that is less than the vessel's carrying amount on the Company's financial statements, OSG will incur a loss on the sale and a reduction in earnings and surplus.  On the other hand,  declining values of the Company's vessels could adversely affect the Company's liquidity by limiting its ability to raise cash by refinancing vessels.. Even if the Company does not need immediate liquidity from the sale or refinancing of vessels, the Company may experience significant impairment charges upon a decline in vessel value. The Company evaluates events and changes in circumstances that have occurred to determine whether they indicate that the carrying amount of the vessels might not be recoverable. This review for potential impairment indicators and projection of future cash flows related to the vessels is complex and requires the Company to make various estimates, including future freight rates, earnings from the vessels, market appraisals and discount rates, all of which have historically been volatile. The Company evaluates the recoverable amount of a vessel as the sum of its undiscounted estimated future cash flows. If the recoverable amount is less than the vessel's carrying amount, the vessel's carrying amount is then compared to its estimated fair value, which is determined using vessel appraisals or discounted estimated future cash flows. If the vessel's carrying amount is less than its fair value, it is deemed impaired. The carrying values of the Company's vessels may differ significantly from their fair market value. Any charges relating to such impairments could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. An increase in the supply of Jones Act vessels without a commensurate increase in demand for such vessels could cause charter rates to decline, which could adversely affect OSG's revenues, profitability and cash flows, as well as the value of its vessels.. The marine transportation industry has historically been highly cyclical, as the profitability and asset values of companies in the industry have fluctuated based on changes in the supply of and demand for vessels. If the number of new ships of a particular class delivered exceeds the number of vessels of that class being scrapped, available capacity in that class will increase. Given the smaller number of tankers operating in the U.S. domestic market, the impact of even a limited increase in capacity supply may negatively affect the market and may have a material adverse effect on OSG's revenues, profitability and cash flows.. OSG conducts certain of its operations internationally, which subjects the Company to changing economic, political and governmental conditions abroad that may adversely affect its business.. The Company conducts certain of its operations internationally, and its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected by changing economic, political and government conditions in the countries and regions where its vessels are employed.. OSG must comply with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials, anti-money laundering laws; and anti-competition regulations. Moreover, the shipping industry is generally considered to present elevated risks in these areas. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, restrictions on the Company's business operations and on the Company's ability to transport cargo to one or more countries, and could also materially affect the Company's brand, ability to attract and retain employees, international operations, business and operating results. Although OSG has policies and procedures designed to achieve compliance with these laws and regulations, OSG cannot be certain that its employees, contractors, joint venture partners or agents will not violate these policies and procedures. OSG's operations may also subject its employees and agents to extortion attempts.. Changes in fuel prices may adversely affect profits.. Fuel is a significant, if not the largest, expense in the Company's shipping operations when vessels are under voyage charter. Accordingly, an increase in the price of fuel may adversely affect the Company's profitability if these increases cannot be passed onto customers. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside the Company's control, including geopolitical developments; supply and demand for oil and gas; actions by OPEC, and other oil and gas producers; war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions; regional production patterns; and environmental concerns.. 16 Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc.. Fuel may become much more expensive in the future, which could reduce the profitability and competitiveness of the Company's business compared to other forms of transportation.. Shipping is a business with inherent risks, and OSG's insurance may not be adequate to cover its losses.. OSG's vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events including, but not limited to:. • marine disasters;. • bad weather;. • mechanical failures;. • human error;. • war, terrorism and piracy;. • grounding, fire, explosions and collisions;. • business interruptions due to labor strikes, port closings and boycotts and. • other unforeseen circumstances or events.. These hazards may result in death or injury to persons; loss of revenues or property; environmental damage; higher insurance rates; damage to OSG's existing customer relationships and industry reputation; and market disruptions, and delay or rerouting, all of which may also subject OSG to litigation. In addition, the operation of tankers has unique operational risks associated with the transportation of oil. An oil spill may cause significant environmental damage and the associated costs could exceed the insurance coverage available to the Company. Compared to other types of vessels, tankers are also exposed to a higher risk of damage and loss by fire, whether ignited by a terrorist attack, collision, or other cause, due to the high flammability and high volume of the oil transported in tankers. Any of these events could result in loss of revenues, decreased cash flows and increased costs.. While the Company carries insurance to protect against certain of these risks, risks may arise against which the Company is not adequately insured. For example, a catastrophic spill could exceed OSG's $1 billion per vessel insurance coverage and have a material adverse effect on its operations. In addition, OSG may not be able to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future, and any particular claim may not be paid by its insurers. In the past, new and stricter environmental regulations have led to higher costs for insurance covering environmental damage or pollution, and new regulations could lead to similar increases or even make this type of insurance unavailable.. Furthermore, even if insurance coverage is adequate to cover the Company's liabilities arising from the loss of a vessel, OSG may not be able to timely obtain a replacement ship.. OSG may also be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on its own claim records but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which OSG obtains insurance coverage for tort liability. OSG's payment of these calls could result in significant expenses which would reduce its profits and cash flows or cause losses.. Constraints on capital availability have adversely affected the tanker industry and OSG's business.. Constraints on capital that have occurred during recent years have adversely affected the financial condition of certain of the Company's customers, financial lenders and suppliers. Entities that suffer a material adverse impact on their financial condition may be unable or unwilling to comply with their contractual commitments to OSG including the refusal or inability of customers to pay charter hire to OSG or the inability or unwillingness of financial lenders to honor their commitments to lend funds. While OSG seeks to monitor the financial condition of its customers, financial lenders and suppliers, the availability and accuracy of information about the financial condition of such entities and the actions that OSG may take to reduce possible losses resulting from the failure of such entities to comply with their contractual obligations may be limited. Any such failure could have a material adverse effect on OSG's revenues, profitability and cash flows. In addition, adverse financial conditions may inhibit these entities from entering into new commitments with OSG, which could also have a material adverse effect on OSG's revenues, profitability and cash flows.. The Company also faces other potential constraints on capital relating to counterparty credit risk and constraints on OSG's ability to borrow funds. See also, \"Risk Factors-Risks Related to Our Company - The Company is subject to credit risks with respect to its counterparties on contracts and any failure by these counterparties to meet their obligations could cause the Company to suffer losses on such contracts, decreasing revenues and earnings\" and \" Risks Related to Our Company - OSG has incurred significant indebtedness which could affect its ability to finance its operations, pursue desirable business. 17 Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc.. opportunities and successfully run its business in the future, all of which could affect OSG's ability to fulfill its obligations under that indebtedness.\". Public health threats could have an adverse effect on the Company's operations and financial results.. Public health threats and other highly communicable diseases, outbreaks of which have already occurred in various parts of the world near where OSG operates, could adversely impact the Company's operations, the operations of the Company's customers and the global economy, including the worldwide demand for crude oil and the level of demand for OSG's services. Any quarantine of personnel, restrictions on travel to or from countries in which OSG operates, or inability to access certain areas could adversely affect the Company's operations. Travel restrictions, operational problems or large-scale social unrest in any part of the world in which OSG operates, or any reduction in the demand for tanker services caused by public health threats in the future, may impact OSG's operations and adversely affect the Company's financial results.. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels could adversely affect the Company's business.. Although the Company's fleet operates mainly in U.S. waters, there are occasions when a vessel may be in an area where pirate attacks are a concern. The frequency of pirate attacks on seagoing vessels remains high, particularly in the western part of the Indian Ocean, off the west coast of Africa and in the South China Sea. If piracy attacks result in regions in which the Company's vessels are deployed being characterized by insurers as \"war risk\" zones, as the Gulf of Aden has been, or Joint War Committee \"war and strikes\" listed areas, premiums payable for insurance coverage could increase significantly, and such insurance coverage may become difficult to obtain. Crew costs could also increase in such circumstances due to risks of piracy attacks.. In addition, while OSG believes the charterer remains liable for charter payments when a vessel is seized by pirates, the charterer may dispute this and withhold charter hire until the vessel is released. A charterer may also claim that a vessel seized by pirates was not \"on-hire\" for a certain number of days and it is therefore entitled to cancel the charter party, a claim the Company would dispute. The Company may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. In addition, hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against the Company's vessels, or an increase in the cost (or unavailability) of insurance for those vessels, could have a material adverse impact on OSG's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Such attacks may also impact the Company's customers, which could impair their ability to make payments to the Company under its charters.. Terrorist attacks and international hostilities and instability can affect the tanker industry, which could adversely affect OSG's business.. Terrorist attacks, the outbreak of war, or the existence of international hostilities could damage the world economy, adversely affect the availability of and demand for crude oil and petroleum products and adversely affect both the Company's ability to charter its vessels and the charter rates payable under any such charters. In addition, OSG operates in a sector of the economy that is likely to be adversely impacted by the effects of political instability, terrorist or other attacks, war or international hostilities. In the past, political instability has also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. These factors could also increase the costs to the Company of conducting its business, particularly crew, insurance and security costs, and prevent or restrict the Company from obtaining insurance coverage, all of which could have a material adverse effect on OSG's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Risks Related to Our Company. As a result of the spin-off of INSW on November 30, 2016, OSG's historical financial information may not be a reliable indicator of OSG's future financial results and the spin-off may adversely affect OSG's business.. In accordance with Accounting Standards Update 2014-08, Reporting Discontinued Operations and Disclosures of Disposals of Components of an Entity, the assets and liabilities and results of operations of INSW are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Accordingly, all references made to financial data in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are to OSG's continuing operations, unless specifically noted. Accordingly, the historical financial information included in this Annual Report does not necessarily reflect the financial condition, operating performance or cash flows that OSG would have achieved without INSW as a wholly owned subsidiary during the periods presented or those that OSG will achieve in the future, including as a result of the following factors:. 18 Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc.. • Prior to the spin-off, OSG or one of its affiliates performed various corporate functions for INSW, such as treasury, accounting, auditing, legal, investor relations and finance. OSG's historical results reflect allocations of corporate expenses to INSW for such functions. In connection with the spin-off, OSG may incur additional expenses for such services after the spin-off.. • As a result of the spin-off, the cost of capital of OSG's business may be higher than its cost of capital prior to the spin-off.. OSG may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits expected to result from the spin-off or such benefits may be delayed or not occur at all. The anticipated benefits may not be achieved for a variety of reasons, including among others:. • The separation of our business from INSW and provision of services to INSW under the Transition Services Agreement require significant amounts of management's time and effort in developing standalone organizations which may divert management's attention from operating and growing OSG's business;. • Following the spin-off, OSG may be more vulnerable to the risk of takeover by third parties;. • Following the spin-off, OSG may be more susceptible to market fluctuations and other adverse events than if INSW was still a part of OSG; and. • Following the spin-off, OSG's business is less diversified and has a more concentrated exposure to U.S specific risks such as the Jones Act market than prior to the spin-off.. If OSG fails to achieve some or all of the benefits to result from the spin-off, or if such benefits are delayed, it could have an adverse effect on OSG's competitive position, financial condition, operating results or cash flows.. OSG has incurred significant indebtedness which could affect its ability to finance its operations, pursue desirable business opportunities and successfully run its business in the future, all of which could affect OSG's ability to fulfill its obligations under that indebtedness.. As of December 31, 2017, OSG had $448.9 million of outstanding indebtedness. OSG's substantial indebtedness and interest expense could have important consequences, including:. • limiting OSG's ability to use a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations in other areas of its business, including for working capital, capital expenditures and other general business activities, because OSG must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to service its debt;. • to the extent OSG's future cash flows are insufficient, requiring the Company to seek to incur additional indebtedness in order to make planned capital expenditures and other expenses or investments;. • limiting OSG's ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions, and other expenses or investments planned by the Company;. • limiting the Company's flexibility and ability to capitalize on business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures and adverse changes in government regulation, and OSG's business and industry;. • limiting OSG's ability to satisfy its obligations under its indebtedness;. • increasing OSG's vulnerability to a downturn in its business and to adverse economic and industry conditions generally;. • placing OSG at a competitive disadvantage as compared to its less-leveraged competitors;. • limiting the Company's ability, or increasing the costs, to refinance indebtedness; and. • limiting the Company's ability to enter into hedging transactions by reducing the number of counterparties with whom OSG can enter into such transactions as well as the volume of those transactions.. OSG's ability to continue to fund its obligations and to reduce debt may be affected by general economic, financial market, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors, among other things. An inability to fund the Company's debt requirements or reduce debt could have a material adverse effect on OSG's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Additionally, the actual or perceived credit quality of the Company's charterers (as well as any defaults by them) could materially affect the Company's ability to obtain the additional capital resources that it will require to purchase additional vessels or significantly increase the costs of obtaining such capital. The Company's inability to obtain additional financing at a higher-than-anticipated cost, or at all, could materially affect the Company's results of operations and its ability to implement its business strategy.. 19 Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc.. The Company may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of its indebtedness, and could in the future breach covenants in its credit facilities and term loans.. The Company's earnings, cash flow and the market value of its vessels vary significantly over time due to the cyclical nature of the tanker industry, as well as general economic and market conditions affecting the industry. As a result, the amount of debt that OSG can manage in some periods may not be appropriate in other periods and its ability to meet the financial covenants to which it is subject or may be subject in the future may vary. Additionally, future cash flow may be insufficient to meet the Company's debt obligations and commitments. Any insufficiency could negatively impact OSG's business.. The OBS Term Loan and the ABL Facility contain certain restrictions relating to new borrowings and, the movement of funds between OBS and OSG, as set forth in the loan agreement. Furthermore, drawdowns under the OBS ABL Facility borrowings are limited based upon the available borrowing base, as defined in that loan agreement and, if availability falls below a certain amount for a specified period of time, the administrative agent could exercise cash dominion rights permitting it to invoke control rights over certain of our accounts. While the Company was in compliance with these requirements as of December 31, 2017, a decrease in vessel values could cause the Company to breach certain covenants its existing credit facilities and term loans, or in future financing agreements that the Company may enter into from time to time. If the Company breaches such covenants and is unable to remedy the relevant breach or obtain a waiver, the Company's lenders could accelerate its debt and foreclose on the Company's owned vessels.. A range of economic, competitive, financial, business, industry and other factors will affect future financial performance, and, accordingly, the Company's ability to generate cash flow from operations and to pay debt. Many of these factors, such as charter rates, economic and financial conditions in the tanker industry and the economy, the creditworthiness of our customers, or competitive initiatives of competitors, are beyond the Company's control. If OSG does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy its debt obligations, it may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as:. • refinancing or restructuring its debt;. • selling tankers or other assets;. • reducing or delaying investments and capital expenditures; or. • seeking to raise additional capital.. Undertaking alternative financing plans, if necessary, might not allow OSG to meet its debt obligations. The Company's ability to restructure or refinance its debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets, its access to such markets and its financial condition at that time. The 8.125% unsecured Notes will mature on March 30, 2018. To remain in compliance with the OBS ABL Facility, the Company paid off the outstanding balance on its 8.125% unsecured Notes in December 2017. Any refinancing of debt could be at higher interest rates and might require the Company to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict OSG's business operations. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict OSG from adopting certain alternatives. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit OSG to meet its scheduled debt service obligations. The Company's inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy its debt obligations, to meet the covenants of its credit agreements and term loans and/or to obtain alternative financing in such circumstances, could materially and adversely affect OSG's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Changes in demand in specialized markets in which the Company currently operates or changes in governmental support may lead the Company to redeploy certain vessels to other markets or put its ability to participate in specialized markets at risk.. The Company deploys its vessels in several niche markets, including lightering in the Delaware Bay. The Company conducts those lightering operations with two ATBs which were purpose built for these operations using funds withdrawn from the Capital Construction Fund. If there is lower demand for these vessels in the Delaware Bay lightering market, the Company may have to redeploy one or both of these two ATBs in other markets. If that were to occur, the Company may not be able to compete profitably in the new markets, and the ATBs may not be able to be redeployed to new markets without substantial modification. In addition, the Company would be required to pay daily liquidated damages to MarAd if those vessels were deployed in the contiguous coastwise trades.. The Company has two vessels participating in the MSP which derive a substantial percentage of revenues earned from transporting cargoes reserved for U.S. Flag vessels under MaRad's Cargo Preference program.  The Cargo Preference program works to promote and facilitate a U.S. maritime transportation system and oversees the administration of and compliance with U.S. cargo preference laws and regulations. Those laws require shippers to give U.S.-flag vessels a preference to transport any government-impelled ocean borne cargoes. Government-impelled cargo is cargo that is moving either as a direct result of. 20 Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc.. Federal government involvement, indirectly through financial sponsorship of a Federal program, or in connection with a guarantee provided by the Federal government.. Among the currently available government-impelled cargoes is a contract the Company has with the government of Israel (\"GOI\") to deliver fuel, which the GOI has in the past funded with grants from the U.S. government. In September 2016, an agreement between the U.S. government and the GOI restricted the GOI's ability to use these grants to purchase fuel beginning in 2019. This restriction could result in the GOI terminating its agreement with OSG. While other government-impelled cargoes may be available to replace cargoes currently transported under the GOI contract, there is no assurance the Company will be able to secure replacement cargoes at rates or in quantities sufficient to replace revenues currently earned under the GOI contract. If the Company is unable to retain the GOI business, or is unable to obtain significant other charters for these vessels, the Company may no longer be able to participate in the MSP and the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected.. The Company operates three Jones Act MR Tankers as shuttle tankers serving offshore oil installations in the Gulf of Mexico. Modifications made to enable these tankers to perform the specialized service of a shuttle tanker required the Company to incur substantial capital costs, which in turn allow the Company to earn a premium to market rates earned by conventional Jones Act tankers. While shuttle tankers can serve as conventional tankers without further modification, future reduction in the demand for specialized shuttle tanker services could limit the Company's ability to earn such premiums, which could adversely affect the financial results of the Company as compared to historical results.. In the highly competitive Jones Act market, OSG may not be able to compete effectively for charters.. The Company's vessels are employed in a highly competitive market. Competition arises from other vessel owners, including major oil companies, which may have substantially greater resources than OSG does. Competition for the transportation of crude oil and other petroleum products depends on price; location; size, age and condition of vessel; and the acceptability of the vessel operator to the charterer. To the extent OSG enters into new geographic regions or provides new services, it may not be able to compete profitably. New markets may involve competitive factors that differ from those of the Company's current markets, and the competitors in those markets may have greater financial strength and capital resources than OSG does.. OSG may not be able to renew Time Charters when they expire or enter into new Time Charters.. OSG's ability to renew expiring contracts or obtain new charters will depend on the prevailing market conditions at the time of renewal. As of December 31, 2017, OSG employed 11 vessels on Time Charters, with six of those charters expiring in 2018, three expiring in 2019, one expiring in 2020 and one expiring in 2025.  The Company's existing Time Charters may not be renewed at comparable rates or if renewed or entered into, those new contracts may be at less favorable rates. In addition, there may be a gap in employment of vessels between current charters and subsequent charters. If at a time when OSG is seeking to arrange new charters for its vessels, market participants expect that less capacity will be necessary in the future (for example, if it is expected that oil and natural gas prices will decrease in the future, which could suggest that future oil and gas production levels will decline from then-current levels), OSG may not be able to obtain charters at attractive rates or at all. If, upon expiration of the existing Time Charter, OSG is unable to obtain Time Charters or Voyage Charters at desirable rates, the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected.. OSG may not realize the benefits it expects from future acquisitions or other strategic transactions it may make.. OSG's business strategy includes ongoing efforts to engage in material acquisitions of assets or ownership interests in entities in the tanker industry and of individual tankers. The success of OSG's acquisitions will depend upon a number of factors, some of which may not be within its control. These factors include OSG's ability to:. • identify suitable tankers and/or shipping companies for acquisitions at attractive prices, which may not be possible if asset prices rise too quickly;. • obtain financing;. • identify businesses engaged in managing, operating or owning tankers for acquisitions or joint ventures;. • integrate any acquired tankers or businesses successfully with the OSG's then-existing operations; and. • enhance OSG's customer base.. OSG intends to finance any future acquisitions by using available cash from operations and through incurrence of debt or bridge financing, either of which may increase its leverage ratios, or by issuing equity, which may have a dilutive impact on its existing stockholders. At any given time, OSG may be engaged in a number of discussions that may result in one or more acquisitions, some of which may be material to OSG as a whole. These opportunities require confidentiality and may involve. 21 Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc.. negotiations that require quick responses by OSG. Although there can be no certainty that any of these discussions will result in definitive agreements or the completion of any transactions, the announcement of any such transaction may lead to increased volatility in the trading price of OSG's securities.. Acquisitions and other transactions can also involve a number of special risks and challenges, including:. • diversion of management time and attention from the Company's existing business and other business opportunities;. • delays in closing or the inability to close an acquisition for any reason, including third-party consents or approvals;. • any unanticipated negative impact on the Company of disclosed or undisclosed matters relating to any vessels or operations acquired; and. • assumption of debt or other liabilities of the acquired business, including litigation related to the acquired business.. The success of acquisitions or strategic investments depends on the effective integration of newly acquired businesses or assets into OSG's current operations. Such integration is subject to risks and uncertainties, including realization of anticipated synergies and cost savings, the ability to retain and attract personnel and customers, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, risk of non-compliance with internal controls over financial reporting for an acquired company, in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and undisclosed or potential legal liabilities of the acquired company or asset. Further, if a portion of the purchase price of a business is attributable to goodwill and if the acquired business does not perform up to expectations at the time of the acquisition some or all of the goodwill may be written off, adversely affecting OSG's earnings.. The Company derives a substantial portion of its revenue from a limited number of customers, and the loss of, or reduction in business by, any of these customers could materially adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company's largest customers account for a significant portion of its revenues. The Company's top three customers comprised approximately 41% of the Company's revenues during 2017. The loss of, or reduction in business by, any of these customers could materially adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Certain potential customers will not use vessels older than a specified age, even if the vessels have been subsequently rebuilt.. All of the Company's existing ATBs with the exception of the OSG Vision/OSG 350 and the OSG Horizon/OSG 351 were originally constructed more than 25 years ago. While all of these tug-barge units were rebuilt and double-hulled since 1998 and are \"in-class,\" meaning the vessel has been certified by a Classification Society as being built and maintained in accordance with the rules of that Classification Society and complies with the applicable rules and regulations of the vessel's country of registry and applicable international conventions, some potential customers have stated that they will not charter vessels that are more than 20 years old, even if they have been rebuilt. Other customers may not continue to view rebuilt vessels as suitable. With an increase in the supply of newer vessels, customers may become more selective. If more customers differentiate rebuilt vessels, time charter rates for the Company's rebuilt ATBs will likely be adversely affected.. The Company's significant operating leases could be replaced on less favorable terms or may not be replaced.. The Company's operating fleet includes ten vessels that have been chartered-in under operating leases. The significant operating leases of the Company in its various businesses expire at various points in the future and may not be replaced at all or on as favorable terms, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's future financial position, results of operations and cash flow.. The Company is subject to credit risks with respect to its counterparties on contracts, and any failure by those counterparties to meet their obligations could cause the Company to suffer losses on such contracts, decreasing revenues and earnings.. The Company has entered into, and in the future will enter into, various contracts, including charter agreements and other agreements associated with the operation of its vessels. The Company charters its vessels to other parties, who pay the company a daily rate of hire. The Company also enters COAs and Voyage Charters. Historically, the Company has not experienced material problems collecting charter hire but the risk increases during economic downturns. Additionally, the Company enters into derivative contracts (interest rate swaps and caps) from time to time. As a result, the Company is subject to credit risks. The ability of each of the Company's counterparties to perform its obligations under a contract with it will depend on a number of factors that are beyond the Company's control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions; availability of debt or equity financing; the condition of the maritime and offshore industries; the overall financial condition of the counterparty including the bankrupcy of the counterparty; charter rates received for specific types of vessels;. 22 Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc.. and various expenses. Charterers are sensitive to the commodity markets and may be impacted by market forces affecting commodities such as oil. In addition, in depressed market conditions, the Company's charterers and customers may no longer need a vessel that is currently under charter or contract or may be able to obtain a comparable vessel at lower rates. As a result, the Company's customers may fail to pay charter hire or attempt to renegotiate charter rates. If the counterparties fail to meet their obligations, the Company could suffer losses on such contracts which would decrease revenues, cash flows and earnings.. Operating costs and capital expenses will increase as the Company's vessels age and may also increase due to unanticipated events relating to secondhand vessels and the consolidation of suppliers.. In general, capital expenditures and other costs necessary for maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increase as the age of the vessel increases. As of December 31, 2017, the average age of the Company's total owned and operated fleet was 10.1 years, which is based on the vessels' year of rebuild, where applicable. Cargo insurance rates are also expected to increase with the age of a vessel. Accordingly, it is likely that the operating costs of OSG's currently operated vessels will increase. In addition, changes in governmental regulations and compliance with Classification Society standards may restrict the type of activities in which the vessels may engage and/or may require OSG to make additional expenditures for new equipment. Every commercial tanker must pass inspection by a Classification Society authorized by the vessel's country of registry. The Classification Society certifies that a tanker is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rule and regulations of the country of registry of the tanker and the international conventions of which that country is a number. If a Classification Society requires the Company to add equipment, OSG may be required to incur substantial costs or take its vessels out of service. Market conditions may not justify such expenditures or permit OSG to operate its older vessels profitably even if those vessels remain operational. If a vessel in OSG's fleet does not maintain its class and/or fails any survey, then it will be unemployable and unable to trade between ports, which would negatively impact the Company's results of operation.. Furthermore, recent mergers have reduced the number of available suppliers, resulting in fewer alternatives for sourcing key supplies. With respect to certain items, OSG is generally dependent upon the original equipment manufacturer for repair and replacement of the item or its spare parts. Supplier consolidation may result in a shortage of supplies and services, thereby increasing the cost of supplies or potentially inhibiting the ability of suppliers to deliver on time. These cost increases or delays could result in downtime, and delays in the repair and maintenance of the Company's vessels and have a material adverse effect on OSG's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The Company may face unexpected drydock costs for its vessels.. Vessels must be drydocked periodically for inspection and maintenance, and in the event of accidents or other unforeseen damage. The cost of repairs and renewals required at each drydock are difficult to predict with certainty, can be substantial and the Company's insurance may not cover these costs. Vessels in drydock will generally not generate any income. Large drydocking expenses could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the time when a vessel is out of service for maintenance is determined by a number of factors including regulatory deadlines, market conditions, shipyard availability and customer requirements.  Large drydocking expenses and longer than anticipated off-hire time could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Technological innovation could reduce the Company's charter income and the value of the Company's vessels.. The charter rates and the value and operational life of a vessel are determined by a number of factors including the vessel's efficiency, operational flexibility and physical life. Efficiency includes speed, fuel economy and the ability to load and discharge cargo quickly. Flexibility includes the ability to enter harbors, utilize related docking facilities and pass through canals and straits. The length of a vessel's physical life is related to its original design and construction, its maintenance and the impact of the stress of operations. Competition from more technologically advanced vessels could adversely affect the amount of charter payments the Company receives for its vessels once their initial charters expire and the resale value of the Company's vessels could significantly decrease. As a result, the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.. Interruption or failure of OSG's information technology and communications systems could impair its ability to operate and adversely affect its business.. OSG is highly dependent on information technology systems. These dependencies include accounting, billing, disbursement, cargo booking and tracking, vessel scheduling and stowage, equipment tracking, customer service, banking, payroll and communication systems. Information technology and communication systems are subject to reliability issues, integration and compatibility concerns, and security-threatening intrusions. OSG may experience failures caused by the occurrence of a natural disaster, computer hacking or viruses or other unanticipated problems at OSG's facilities, aboard its vessels or at third-party. 23 Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc.. locations. Any failure of OSG's or third-party systems could result in interruptions in service, reductions in its revenue and profits, damage to its reputation or liability for the release of confidential information.. We store, process, maintain, and transmit confidential information through information technology systems. Cybersecurity issues, such as security breaches and computer viruses, affecting our information technology systems or those of our third party vendors, could disrupt our business, result in the unintended disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs, and cause losses.. We collect, store and transmit sensitive data, including our proprietary business information and that of our clients, and personally identifiable information of our clients and employees, using both our information technology systems and those of third party vendors. The secure storage, processing, maintenance, and transmission of this information is critical to our operations. Our network, or those of our clients or third party vendors, could be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, and other security problems. Many companies have increasingly reported breaches in the security of their websites or other systems, some of which have involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information, destroy data, disrupt or degrade service, sabotage systems or cause other damage.. We may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses. Security breaches and viruses could expose us to claims, litigation and other possible liabilities. Any inability to prevent security breaches (including the inability of our third party vendors to prevent security breaches) could also cause existing clients to lose confidence in our systems and could adversely affect our reputation, cause losses to us or our clients, damage our brand, and increase our costs.. We could face significant liability if one or more multiemployer plans in which we participate is reported to have underfunded liabilities and we withdraw from participation in one or more multiemployer pension plans in which we participate.. The Company is a party to collective-bargaining agreements that requires contributions to three jointly managed (Company and union) multiemployer pension plans covering seagoing personnel of U.S. Flag vessels. Our required contributions to these plans could increase because of a shrinking contribution base as a result of the insolvency or withdrawal of other companies that currently contribute to these plans, the inability or failure of withdrawing companies to pay their withdrawal liability, low interest rates, lower than expected returns on pension fund assets or other funding deficiencies. Certain of these multiemployer plans are currently underfunded. Significantly underfunded pension plans are required to improve their funding ratios within prescribed intervals based on the level of their under-funding. As a result, our required contributions to these plans may increase in the future. In addition, a termination of our voluntary withdrawal from or a mass withdrawal of all contributing employers from a underfunded multiemployer pension plan would require us to make payments to the plan for our proportionate share of such multiemployer pension plan's unfunded vested liabilities. See Note 17, \"Pension and Other Post Retirement Benefit Plans,\" to the Company's consolidated financial statements set forth in Item 8 for additional information. Requirements to pay increased contributions or withdrawal liabilities could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity and results of operations.. The Company may have difficulty attracting and retaining skilled employees and is dependent on unionized employees.. OSG's success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of its key personnel. The loss of the services of key personnel or the Company's inability to attract, motivate and retain qualified personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect on OSG's business, financial condition and operating results.. As of December 31, 2017, OSG had approximately 1,123 employees, of which 633 employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements with unions. See Item 1, \"Business - Employees.\" OSG could be adversely affected by actions taken by employees of OSG or other companies in related industries (including third parties providing services to OSG) against efforts by management to control labor costs, restrain wage or benefits increases or modify work practices or the failure of OSG or other companies in its industry to successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements.. Effective internal controls are necessary for the Company to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud.. The Company maintains a system of internal controls to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with GAAP. The process of designing and implementing effective internal controls is a continuous effort that requires the Company to anticipate and react to changes in its business and the economic and regulatory environments and to expend significant resources to maintain a system of internal controls that is adequate to satisfy its reporting obligations as a public company.. 24 Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc.. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure to maintain that adequacy, or consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase the Company's operating costs and harm its business. Furthermore, investors' perceptions that the Company's internal controls are inadequate or that the Company is unable to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis may harm its stock price.. Delays or disruptions in implementing new technological and management systems could impair the Company's ability to operate and adversely affect its business.. The Company is currently in the process of transitioning to a new software system for managing ship operations. In addition, from time to time the Company will implement or upgrade certain other technological resources utilized in running its business. The Company could be adversely affected if the new software system it is implementing for managing ship operations or other new or upgraded technological systems are defective, not installed properly, fail to perform as marketed or are not properly integrated into existing operations. In addition, the implementation of a new system may not result in improvements that outweigh the cost of implementation. System implementation failures could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, financial position, and ability to operate in a complex industry.. We may be adversely affected by changes in U.S. tax laws.. The U.S. Congress has recently passed corporate income tax reforms from which the Company has received a benefit. See Note 12, \"Taxes,\" for additional information. The Company is in an overall deferred tax liability position, however it has significant deferred tax assets consisting primarily of federal and state net operating loss carryforwards that are expected to be realized over an extended number of years. Although the reduction in the corporate income tax rate as of January 1, 2018 will reduce the amount of taxes we would pay in the future, a reduction in the corporate income tax rate also results in a decrease in the value of our net operating loss carryforwards. The re-measurement of the net deferred tax liability results in an increase to our net income and total equity during 2017, as discussed further in Note 12, \"Taxes\". We also currently benefit from the deduction of interest expense on our indebtedness. Any elimination or modification of that deduction would increase our cash taxes payable, reducing our future cash available for operations and dividend payments.. Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Matters. The Company's business would be adversely affected if it failed to comply with the Jones Act's limitations on U.S. coastwise trade, or if these limitations were waived, modified or repealed, or if changes in international trade agreements were to occur.. Substantially all of the Company's operations are conducted in the U.S. coastwise trade and are governed by U.S. federal laws commonly known as the \"Jones Act\". The Jones Act restricts waterborne transportation of goods between points in the United States to vessels meeting certain requirements, including ownership and control by \"U.S. Citizens\" as defined thereunder. The Company is responsible for monitoring the foreign ownership of its common stock and other interests to ensure compliance with the Jones Act. The Company could lose the privilege of owning and operating vessels in the Jones Act trade if non-U.S. Citizens were to own or control, in the aggregate, more than 25% of the equity interests in the Company. Such loss would have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations. In addition, under certain circumstances failure to comply with the Jones Act may result in the Company being deemed to have violated other U.S. federal laws that prohibit a foreign transfer of U.S. documented vessels without government approval, resulting in severe penalties, including permanent loss of U.S. coastwise trading privileges or forfeiture of the vessels deemed transferred, and fines.. Additionally, maritime transportation services are currently excluded from the General Agreement on Trade in Services (\"GATS\") and are the subject of reservations by the United States in the North American Free Trade Agreement (\"NAFTA\") and other international free trade agreements. If maritime transportation services were included in GATS, NAFTA or other international trade agreements, or if the restrictions contained in the Jones Act were otherwise repealed or altered, the transportation of maritime cargo between U.S. ports could be opened to international flag or foreign built vessels. During the past several years, particularly with regard to Puerto Rico after Hurricane Irma, interest groups have lobbied Congress, and legislation has been introduced, to repeal certain provisions of the Jones Act to facilitate international flag competition for trades and cargoes currently reserved for U.S. Flag vessels under the Jones Act. The Company expects that continued efforts will be made to modify or repeal the Jones Act. Because international vessels may have lower construction costs, wage rates and operating costs, this could significantly increase competition in the coastwise trade, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. 25 Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc.. The U.S. government could requisition the Company's vessels during a period of war or emergency, which may negatively impact the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and available cash.. The U.S. government could requisition one or more of the Company's vessels for title or hire, typically occurring during a period of war or emergency. Requisition for title or hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes the owner or the charterer at dictated charter rates. Two OSG vessels participate in the U.S. Maritime Security Program, which ensures that militarily useful U.S. Flag vessels are available to the U.S. Department of Defense in the event of war or national emergency. Under the program, OSG receives an annual fee, subject in each case to annual Congressional appropriations, in exchange for a guarantee that the ships will be made available to the U.S. government in the time of war or national emergency. The U.S. government requisition of one or more of the Company's vessels may negatively impact the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and available cash.. Compliance with complex laws, regulations, and, in particular, environmental laws or regulations may adversely affect OSG's business.. The Company's operations are affected by extensive and changing international, national and local environmental protection laws, regulations, treaties, conventions and standards. These requirements are designed to reduce the risk of oil spills and water pollution and to regulate air emissions, including emission of greenhouse gases. These requirements impose significant capital and operating costs on OSG, including those related to engine adjustments and ballast water treatment.. Environmental laws and regulations also can affect the resale value or significantly reduce the useful lives of the Company's vessels, require a reduction in carrying capacity, ship modifications or operational changes or restrictions (and related increased operating costs) or retirement of service, lead to decreased availability or higher cost of insurance coverage for environmental matters or result in the denial of access to, or detention in, certain jurisdictional waters or ports. Under local, national and foreign laws, as well as international treaties and conventions, OSG could incur material liabilities, including cleanup obligations, in the event that there is a release of petroleum or other hazardous substances from its vessels or otherwise in connection with its operations. OSG could be subject to personal injury or property damage claims relating to the release of or exposure to hazardous materials associated with its current or historic operations. Violations of or liabilities under environmental requirements also can result in substantial penalties, fines and other sanctions, including in certain instances, seizure or detention of the Company's vessels.. OSG could incur significant costs, including cleanup costs, fines, penalties, third-party claims and natural resource damages, as the result of an oil spill or liabilities under environmental laws. The Company is subject to the oversight of several government agencies, including the U.S. Coast Guard, the Environmental Protection Agency and the Maritime Administration of the U.S. Department of Transportation. OPA 90 affects all vessel owners shipping oil or hazardous material to, from or within the United States. OPA 90 allows for potentially unlimited liability without regard to fault for owners, operators and bareboat charterers of vessels for oil pollution in U.S. waters. Similarly, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage, 1969, as amended, which has been adopted by most countries outside of the United States, imposes liability for oil pollution in international waters. OPA 90 expressly permits individual states to impose their own liability regimes with regard to hazardous materials and oil pollution incidents occurring within their boundaries. Coastal states in the United States have enacted pollution prevention liability and response laws, many providing for unlimited liability.. In order to comply with laws and regulations, shipowners likely will incur substantial additional capital and/or operating expenditures to meet new regulatory requirements, to develop contingency arrangements for potential spills and to obtain insurance coverage. Key regulatory initiatives that are anticipated to require substantial additional capital and/or operating expenditures in the next several years include more stringent limits on the sulfur content of fuel oil for vessels operating in waters not already considered emissions control areas and more stringent requirements for management and treatment of ballast water.. The Company expects to install ballast water treatment systems on its vessels at substantial capital cost and incur increased operating expenses between 2019 and 2023. Although the Company has performed due diligence in choosing the particular systems, there is no assurance that the technologies chosen will perform as expected or be installed without delays.. The Company continues to be in full compliance with the USCG's phase-in schedule for ballast water treatment systems and has received from the USCG for six vessels. The EPA determined in 2013 that it will not issue extensions under the VGP but stated that vessels that meet certain conditions, including having received the USCG extensions, would be a \"low enforcement priority\". While the six vessels with USCG extensions are not in compliance with the EPA's phase-in schedule, OSG believes that its vessels will meet the conditions for a low enforcement priority.\" However, no assurance is given that EPA will not. 26 Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc.. change their position. If the EPA determines to enforce the limits for such vessels, such action could have a material adverse effect on OSG. See Item 1, \"Business - Environmental and Security Matters Relating to Bulk Shipping.\". Other government regulation of vessels, particularly in the areas of safety and environmental requirements, can be expected to become stricter in the future and require the Company to incur significant capital expenditures on its vessels to keep them in compliance, or even to scrap or sell certain vessels altogether. Such expenditures could result in financial and operational impacts that may be material to OSG's financial statements. Additionally, the failure of a shipowner or bareboat charterer to comply with local, domestic and foreign regulations may subject it to increased liability, may invalidate existing insurance or decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. If any of our vessels are denied access to, or are detained in, certain ports, reputation, business, financial results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. Incidents involving highly publicized oil spills and other mishaps involving vessels can be expected in the tanker industry, and such events could be expected to result in the adoption of even stricter laws and regulations, which could limit the Company's operations or its ability to do business and which could have a material adverse effect on OSG's business, financial results and cash flows. In addition, the Company is required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses and certificates with respect to its operations. The Company believes its vessels are maintained in good condition in compliance with present regulatory requirements, are operated in compliance with applicable safety and environmental laws and regulations and are insured against usual risks for such amounts as the Company's management deems appropriate. The vessels' operating certificates and licenses are renewed periodically during each vessel's required annual survey. However, government regulation of tankers, particularly in the areas of safety and environmental impact, may change in the future and require the Company to incur significant capital expenditures with respect to its ships to keep them in compliance.. Due to concern over the risk of climate change, a number of countries, including the United States, and international organizations, including the IMO and the European Union, have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. These regulatory measures include, among others, adoption of cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates for renewable energy. Such actions could result in significant financial and operational impacts on the Company's business, including requiring OSG to install new emission controls, acquire allowances or pay taxes related to its greenhouse gas emissions, or administer and manage a greenhouse gas emission program.  The Company is calculating and reporting greenhouse gas emissions on voyages to and from EU ports under the EU's Monitoring, Reporting and Verification (MRV) scheme, and that requirement could be expanded to all vessels worldwide on any voyage under a similar IMO program currently under development. See Item 1, \"Business - Environmental and Security Matters Relating to Bulk Shipping.\" In addition to the added costs, the concern over climate change and regulatory measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions may reduce global demand for oil and oil products, which would have an adverse effect on OSG's business, financial results and cash flows.. The employment of the Company's vessels could be adversely affected by an inability to clear the oil majors' risk assessment process.. Our industry is heavily regulated. In addition, the major oil companies have developed a strict due diligence process for selecting their shipping partners out of concerns for the environmental impact of spills. This vetting process has evolved into a sophisticated and comprehensive risk assessment of both the vessel manager and the vessel. The Company's charterers require that the Company's vessels and the technical managers pass vetting inspections and management audits. The Company's failure to maintain any of its vessels to these standards could put the Company in breach of the applicable charter agreement and lead to termination of such agreement thereby adversely affecting the revenues of the Company. The Company may be subject to litigation and government inquiries or investigations that, if not resolved in the Company's favor and not sufficiently covered by insurance, could have a material adverse effect on it.. The Company has been and is, from time to time, involved in various litigation matters and is subject to government inquiries and investigations. These matters may include, among other things, contract disputes, personal injury claims, environmental claims or proceedings, asbestos and other toxic tort claims, employment matters, governmental claims for taxes or duties, and other disputes that arise in the ordinary course of the Company's business. The Company believes it has sufficient insurance coverage for the majority, though not all, of these cases.. Although the Company intends to defend these matters vigorously, it cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any such matter, and the ultimate outcome of these matters or the potential costs to resolve them could involve or result in significant expenditures or losses by the Company, or result in significant changes to OSG's rules and practices in dealing with. 27 Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc.. its customers, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's future operating results. Insurance may not be applicable or sufficient in all cases. Because litigation is inherently uncertain, the Company's estimates for contingent liabilities may be insufficient to cover the actual liabilities from such claims, resulting in a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See Item 3, \"Legal Proceedings,\" and Note 21, \"Contingencies,\" to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, \"Financial Statement and Supplementary Data.\". Maritime claimants could arrest OSG's vessels, which could interrupt cash flows.. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of the Company's vessels could interrupt OSG's cash flow and require it to pay a significant amount of money to have the arrest lifted. Claimants could try to assert \"sister ship\" liability against one vessel in the Company's fleet for claims relating to another vessel in its fleet which, if successful, could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The Company's U.S. federal income tax position in respect of certain credit agreement borrowings used by INSW is not free from doubt.. The Company has taken the position that certain drawdowns by the Company under the Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility used solely by INSW should not be taken into account in determining amounts includible in OSG's income as deemed dividends under section 951(a)(1)(B) and section 956 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, for taxable years 2013 and earlier. The Company has established a reserve in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification 740. If the IRS were to challenge the Company's position, the Company's total cash exposure could exceed the reserve, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Transfers or issuances of the Company's equity may impair or reduce the Company's ability to utilize its net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes in the future.. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, contain rules that limit the ability of a company that undergoes an \"ownership change\" to utilize its net operating loss and tax credit carry forwards and certain built-in losses recognized in years after the ownership change. An \"ownership change\" is generally defined as any change in ownership of more than 50% of a corporation's stock over a rolling three-year period by stockholders that own (directly or indirectly) 5% or more of the stock of a corporation, or arising from a new issuance of stock by a corporation. If an ownership change occurs, Section 382 imposes an annual limitation on the use of pre-ownership change NOLs, credits and certain other tax attributes to offset taxable income earned after the ownership change. The annual limitation is equal to the product of the applicable long-term tax exempt rate and the value of the company's stock immediately before the ownership change. This annual limitation may be adjusted to reflect any unused annual limitation for prior years and certain recognized built-in gains and losses for the year. In addition, Section 383 generally limits the amount of tax liability in any post-ownership change year that can be reduced by pre-ownership change tax credit carryforwards. If the Company were to undergo an \"ownership change,\" it could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Risks Related to the Common Stock and Warrants. The market price of the Company's securities fluctuates significantly.. The market price of the Company's securities fluctuates substantially. You may not be able to resell your Class A common stock or Class A warrants at or above the price you paid for such securities due to a number of factors, some of which are beyond the Company's control, including the occurrence of the risks described herein. The falling price of the Company's equity securities may expose the Company to securities class action litigation, which could result in substantial cost and the diversion of management's attention and resources.. The ability to sell warrants may be limited and the exercise of outstanding warrants may result in substantial dilution to the Company's stockholders.. The Company's Class A warrants are currently traded as \"restricted securities\" in the over-the-counter market and in privately negotiated transactions among individual holders pursuant to exemptions from the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.. 28 Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc.. Transactions are reported as taking place only sporadically. The liquidity of any market that may develop for the Class A warrants, the ability to sell the Class A warrants and the price at which such securities would sell are all uncertain.. The Company has outstanding Class A warrants with an exercise price of $0.01 per share exercisable into shares of Class A common stock. If exercised, the shares of Class A common stock underlying these warrants would represent approximately 19% of the Company's outstanding Class A common stock. Accordingly, any such exercise may result in substantial dilution to the Company's stockholders.. The Company's common stock is subject to restrictions on foreign ownership, which could have a negative impact on the transferability of the Company's common stock, its liquidity and market value, and on a change of control of the Company.. The Company's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-Laws authorize its Board of Directors to establish certain rules, policies and procedures, including procedures with respect to transfer of shares, to assist in monitoring and maintaining compliance with the Jones Act ownership restrictions. In order to provide a reasonable margin for compliance with the Jones Act at least 77% (the \"Minimum Percentage\") of the outstanding shares of each class of capital stock of the Company must be owned by U.S. citizens. Moreover, any purported transfer of equity interests in the Company that caused the percentage of outstanding shares of a class of capital stock of the Company to fall below the Minimum Percentage will be rendered ineffective to transfer the equity interests or any voting, dividend or other rights associated with such interests.. The percentage of U.S. citizenship ownership of the Company's outstanding common stock fluctuates based on daily trading, and at times in the past, has declined to the Minimum Percentage. At and during such time that the Minimum Percentage is reached, the Company is unable to issue any further shares of such class of common stock or approve transfers of such class of common stock to non-U.S. citizens. The existence and enforcement of these ownership restrictions could have an adverse impact on the liquidity or market value of the Company's equity securities. Furthermore, under certain circumstances, the ownership restrictions could discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of the Company.. The Company's outstanding warrants are not subject to the above ownership restrictions, but the warrants include provisions limiting the right of non-U.S. citizens to exercise warrants if the shares of common stock that would be issued upon exercise would cause the percentage of the Company's outstanding common stock held by U.S. citizens to decline below the Minimum Percentage.. OSG is a holding company and depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to distribute funds to it in order to satisfy its financial obligations or pay dividends.. Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. is a holding company and its subsidiaries conduct all of its operations and own all of its operating assets. It has no significant assets other than the equity interests in its subsidiaries. As a result, its ability to satisfy its financial obligations or pay dividends is dependent on the ability of its subsidiaries to distribute funds to it. In addition, the terms of the OBS Term Loan and the ABL Facility restrict the ability of OBS and its subsidiaries to distribute funds to Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc.. Some provisions of Delaware law and the Company's governing documents could influence its ability to effect a change of control.. Certain provisions of Delaware law and contained in the Company's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-Laws could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of the Company. In addition, these provisions could make it more difficult to bring about a change in the composition of the Company's board of directors. For example, the Company's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-Laws:. • give the sole ability to then-current members of its board of directors to fill a vacancy on the board of directors;. • require the affirmative vote of two-thirds or more of the combined voting power of the outstanding shares of its capital stock in order to amend or repeal certain provisions of its Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-Laws; and. • establish advance notice requirements for nomination for elections to its board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings.. Separately, the Company has elected to opt out of Section 203 (\"Section 203\") of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the \"DGCL\"), which restricts certain business combinations between a Delaware corporation and an \"interested stockholder.\". 29 Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc.. Accordingly, the Company will be able to enter into such transactions with its principal stockholders without complying with the requirements of Section 203. The election to opt out of Section 203 could deprive certain stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of the Company, particularly if it enters into a transaction with an \"interested stockholder.\". Securities analysts may not initiate coverage or continue to cover the Company's securities, and this may have a negative impact on their market price.. The trading market for the Company's securities will depend in part on the research and reports that securities analysts publish about the Company and its business. The Company does not have any control over securities analysts and they may not initiate coverage or continue to cover the Company's securities. If securities analysts do not cover the Company's securities, the lack of research coverage may adversely affect their market price. If the Company is covered by securities analysts, and the Company's securities are the subject of an unfavorable report, the Company's securities prices would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases to cover the Company or fails to publish regular reports on the Company, the Company could lose visibility in the financial markets, which may cause the price or trading volume of the Company's securities to decline.. 30 Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc."
