[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks related to our business.. We have a history of losses and anticipate that we may incur continued losses for at least the next few years. We cannot be certain that we will achieve or sustain profitability.. We have a history of losses and may continue to incur operating and net losses for the foreseeable future. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, we had net losses of $32.9 million, $22.3 million and $24.5 million, respectively, and we had an accumulated deficit at December 31, 2017 of $201.5 million. Substantially all of our operating losses in these periods resulted from costs incurred in connection with sales and marketing of our T-SPOT.TB test, general and administrative costs associated with our operations and our research and development programs. Even though we generate revenue from our T-SPOT.TB test, we anticipate that our operating losses will continue for the next few years as we continue to invest to grow our customer base and invest in research and development to expand our product portfolio. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing and commercializing diagnostic products, we are unable to predict the magnitude of these future losses. Our historic losses, combined with expected future losses, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our cash resources, shareholders’ deficit and working capital. We expect our research and development expenses to be substantial for at least the next few years as we continue enhancing our T-SPOT.TB test and work to develop new products.. We have not achieved profitability on a consolidated basis and our ability to become profitable depends upon our ability to generate revenue. In 2004, we began to generate revenue from the sale and marketing of our T-SPOT.TB test, but we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to attain profitability. Our ability to generate profits on sales of our T-SPOT.TB test is subject to market acceptance in market segments we currently serve, as well as in new market segments and new geographies, and our ability to obtain regulatory body clearance to market any of our products. In addition, we may be compelled to sell our T-SPOT.TB test at lower prices if, for example, our customers or prospective customers are unwilling to pay for our tests at current pricing levels or as a result of increased competition generally. Any price erosion would impede our ability to generate revenue. If we are unable to generate sufficient revenue, we will not become profitable and may be unable to continue operations without continued funding.. We may require substantial additional capital resources to fund our operations. We may not be able to obtain additional capital resources on favorable terms and if we cannot find additional capital resources, we may have difficulty operating our business. Raising additional capital may also cause dilution to our existing shareholders.. As of December 31, 2017, we had cash and cash equivalents of $90.3 million and working capital (total current assets less total current liabilities) of $98.0 million. While we anticipate that our current cash, cash equivalents and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our projected operating plans for at least the next 12 months, we may require additional funds, either through additional equity or debt financings, strategic collaboration agreements, sale of assets or from other sources. Additional financing opportunities may not be available to us, or if available, may not be on favorable terms. Further, to the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership interest of our shareholders will be diluted, and the terms may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of our shareholders. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including revenue generated from the sale of our T-SPOT.TB test, margins, operating expenses and our ability to control costs associated with our operations, and the costs of filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights. The availability of additional capital will also depend on many factors, including the market price of our ordinary shares and the availability and cost of additional equity capital from existing and potential new investors, our ability to retain the listing of our ordinary shares on The NASDAQ Global Market and general economic and industry conditions affecting the availability and cost of capital.. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. If we raise additional funds through collaboration, strategic alliance and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies or product candidates beyond the rights we have already relinquished, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us.. If we do not achieve, sustain or successfully manage our anticipated growth, our business and financial results may be adversely affected.. We have experienced significant revenue growth in a relatively short period of time. We may not achieve similar growth rates in future periods. Investors should not rely on our operating results for any prior periods as an indication of our future operating performance. If we are unable to maintain adequate revenue growth, our financial results could suffer and our share price could decline.. Further development and commercialization of our T-SPOT.TB test and other diagnostic product candidates will require us to expand our sales, marketing and distribution networks. Such growth may place significant strains on our management and our internal systems and processes, as well as potentially those of our suppliers, and if we cannot effectively manage expanding operations and costs, we may not be able to continue to grow or we may grow at a slower pace and our business and financial results could be adversely affected.. 16. Table of Contents. Our cash flows and capital resources may be insufficient to make required payments on our indebtedness and future indebtedness.. On October 4, 2016, we entered into an agreement with MidCap Financial Trust, or the MidCap agreement, that provided us with $40 million in debt financing, comprised of both a term loan and a revolving line of credit. The MidCap agreement provided a term loan of $30 million, which matures five years from closing. The term loan accrues interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 7.60% with interest only payments for the first 24 months, with the ability to extend to 48 months subject to certain conditions, before the loan begins to amortize. The MidCap agreement also provides a revolving line of credit of up to $10 million, which matures five years from closing. The revolving line of credit accrues interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 4.45%. Based on certain conditions, both the term loan and revolving line of credit could be increased by an additional $10 million for a total of $60 million. To date, we have not borrowed under the revolving line of credit.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $30 million of indebtedness under the MidCap agreement. Such indebtedness could have important consequences to us. For example, it could:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake it difficult for us to satisfy our other debt obligations;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate requirements;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimit our ability to make large investments or acquisitions;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\texpose us to interest rate fluctuations because the interest rate on the debt under the MidCap agreement is variable;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequire us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for operations and other purposes;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tplace us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that may have proportionately less debt and greater financial resources.. In addition, our ability to make scheduled payments or refinance our obligations depends on our successful financial and operating performance, cash flows and capital resources, which in turn depend upon prevailing economic conditions and certain financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\teconomic and demand factors affecting our industry;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpricing pressures;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreased operating costs;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcompetitive conditions; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tother operating difficulties.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell material assets or operations, obtain additional capital or restructure our debt. In the event that we are required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations, the value realized on such assets or operations will depend on market conditions and the availability of buyers. Accordingly, any such sale may not, among other things, be for a sufficient dollar amount to fund our debt service obligations. Our obligations pursuant to the MidCap agreement are secured by first priority security interests in substantially all of our assets. The foregoing encumbrances may limit our ability to dispose of material assets or operations. We also may not be able to restructure our indebtedness on favorable economic terms, if at all.. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future, including pursuant to the MidCap agreement. Our incurrence of additional indebtedness would intensify the risks described above.. The MidCap agreement contains various covenants limiting the discretion of our management in operating our business.. The MidCap agreement contains, subject to certain carve-outs, various restrictive covenants that limit our management's discretion in operating our business. In particular, these instruments limit our ability to, among other things:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincur additional debt;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgrant liens on assets;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake investments, including capital expenditures and acquisitions;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsell or acquire assets outside the ordinary course of business; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake fundamental business changes.. If we fail to comply with the restrictions in the MidCap agreement, a default may allow the creditors under the relevant instruments to accelerate the related debt and to exercise their remedies under these agreements, which will typically include the right to declare the principal amount of that debt, together with accrued and unpaid interest and other related amounts, immediately due and payable, to exercise any remedies the creditors may have to foreclose on assets that are subject to liens securing that debt and to terminate any commitments they had made to supply further funds.. 17. Table of Contents. We are currently heavily dependent on the successful further commercialization of our T-SPOT.TB test and, if we encounter delays or difficulties in the further commercialization of this product, our business could be harmed.. Our future success is heavily dependent upon the successful further commercialization of our T-SPOT.TB test. There is no assurance that we will continue to generate revenues from this product, or any products under development, in the future. Our business could be materially harmed if we encounter difficulties in the further commercialization of this product, including, among others: failure to achieve sufficient market acceptance by hospitals and public health departments as well as physicians, third-party payors and others in the medical community; the inability to compete with other diagnostic methods, including the TST; the inability to maintain and expand our sales, marketing and distribution networks; the inability to manage anticipated growth; the inability to obtain and/or maintain necessary regulatory approvals; and the inability to effectively protect our intellectual property.. Our financial results will depend on the market acceptance and increased demand of our products by hospitals and public health departments, as well as physicians and others in the medical community.. Our future success depends on our products gaining sufficient market acceptance by hospitals and public health departments. If our products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by such customer groups, we may not generate enough revenue to become profitable. For example, the degree of market acceptance of our T-SPOT.TB product will depend on a number of factors, including:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tclinical guidelines relative to the screening for, and diagnosis and monitoring of, TB infection;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe efficacy and potential advantages of our T-SPOT.TB test over alternative tests;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe willingness of our target customers to accept and adopt our T-SPOT.TB test;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe ability to offer attractive pricing for our T-SPOT.TB test;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe strength of marketing and distribution support and the timing of market introduction of competitive products; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\toutcomes from clinical studies and other publicity concerning our T-SPOT.TB test or competing products.. Our efforts to educate physicians and other members of the medical community on the benefits of our T-SPOT.TB test may require significant resources and may never be successful. Such efforts to educate the marketplace may require more resources than are required by conventional technologies marketed by our competitors. In particular, continuing to gain market acceptance for our T-SPOT.TB test in nascent markets could be challenging. In certain markets, including, for example, Japan and China, our potential for future growth is difficult to forecast. If we were to incorrectly forecast our ability to penetrate these markets, expenditures that we make may not result in the benefits that we expect, which could harm our results of operations. Moreover, in the event that our T-SPOT.TB test is the subject of guidelines, clinical studies or scientific publications that are unhelpful or damaging, or otherwise call into question the benefits of our T-SPOT.TB test, we may have difficulty in convincing prospective customers to adopt our test. Moreover, the perception by the investment community or shareholders that recommendations, guidelines or studies will result in decreased use of our products could adversely affect the prevailing market price for our ordinary shares. Similar challenges apply to all of the products in our pipeline.. The success of our T-SPOT.TB test depends on the continued demand for diagnostic products for tuberculosis.. Even if we achieve market acceptance, our success will depend on continued demand for diagnostic products for tuberculosis. Tuberculosis screening policies could change such that tests are conducted less frequently or in fewer instances. For example, healthcare institutions facing increased cost control requirements could determine to reduce employee testing. In addition, various institutions or governing bodies may decide that the incidence of TB has dropped sufficiently within their screening population so as to permit reduced testing (e.g., U.S. military guidelines were recently updated such that testing may now be required in fewer instances than under previous guidelines). Changes to immigration policies and policies relating to resettlement of refugees, as well as other policy changes may substantially reduce testing in the markets we serve and could have a material and adverse effect on our business.. New market opportunities may not develop as quickly as we expect, limiting our ability to market and sell our T-SPOT.TB test successfully.. We intend to take steps to continue to increase the presence of our T-SPOT.TB test in new markets both in the United States and internationally. We intend to expand our sales force globally and establish additional distributor relationships outside of our direct markets to better access international markets. We believe these opportunities will take substantial time to develop or mature, however, and we cannot be certain that these market opportunities will develop as we expect. The future growth and success of our T-SPOT.TB test in these markets depends on many factors beyond our control, including recognition and acceptance by the scientific community in that market and the prevalence and costs of competing methods of tuberculosis screening. If the markets for our T-SPOT.TB test do not develop as we expect, our business may be adversely affected.. 18. Table of Contents. Our T-SPOT.TB test competes with other diagnostic testing methods that may be more widely accepted than our test, and may compete with new diagnostic tests that may be developed by others in the future, which could impair our ability to maintain and grow our business and remain competitive.. The clinical diagnostics market is highly competitive, and we must be able to compete effectively against existing and future competitors in order to be successful. In selling our T-SPOT.TB test, we compete primarily with existing diagnostic technologies, particularly the TST, which is widely used as a test for TB infection. In addition, we compete with QFN which, like our T-SPOT.TB test, employs an IGRA method for detecting tuberculosis infection. If we are unable to differentiate our diagnostic tests from those of our competitors, our business may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, improvements in these technologies or the development of new technologies for diagnosing tuberculosis and the introduction of products that compete with our T-SPOT.TB test could adversely impact our ability to sell our T-SPOT.TB test or the sales price of the test. This could impact our ability to market our test and/or secure a distribution partner, both of which could have a substantial impact on the value of our T-SPOT.TB test.. We also face competition in the development, manufacture, marketing and commercialization of diagnostic products from a variety of other sources, such as academic institutions, government agencies, research institutions and other life sciences companies. These competitors are working to develop and market other diagnostic tests, systems, products and other methods of detecting, preventing or reducing tuberculosis.. Among the many experimental diagnostics being developed around the world, there may be diagnostics unknown to us that may compete with our T-SPOT.TB test. Many of our potential competitors have much greater capital resources, manufacturing, research and development resources and production facilities than we do. Competitors with greater resources may be able to offer tests and/or services at prices at which we are unable to compete and more quickly develop improvements than we are. Many of them may also have more experience than we have in preclinical testing and clinical trials of new diagnostic tests.. In our service offering, we also may face competition from commercial laboratories, including large national and regional laboratories, which may be able to offer access to TB testing. These laboratories may have perceived advantages over our solution, including phlebotomy services, established payor relationships and dedicated courier services. For example, as we seek to further penetrate the physicians’ office segment of the U.S. market, we may find that physicians have established relationships with commercial laboratories that offer physicians additional services, such as phlebotomy, and a wider range of available laboratory tests that a physician may choose to order in addition to a TB test. Further, some commercial laboratories may be able to offer their services at lower cost to physicians’ patients due to the reimbursement arrangements these laboratories may have established with third-party payors. These factors may make it difficult for us to convince physicians to use our test and service offering.. The markets for our T-SPOT.TB test are subject to changing technology, new product introductions and product enhancements, and evolving industry standards. The introduction or enhancement of products embodying new technology or the emergence of new industry standards could render existing products obsolete or result in short product life cycles or our inability to sell our T-SPOT.TB test without offering a significant discount.. Our future success depends on our ability to successfully develop, obtain clearance or approval for and commercialize new products.. Our future success partially depends on our ability to successfully develop and market new products. Our ability to develop any of these products is dependent on a number of factors, including funding availability to complete development efforts; our ability to develop products that adequately detect or measure the targeted function, condition or disease; our ability to secure required FDA or other regulatory clearance or approval and our ability to obtain licenses to necessary third-party intellectual property. We may encounter problems in the development phase for our products, which can result in substantial setbacks and delays or abandonment of further work on the potential product. There can be no assurance that we will not encounter such setbacks with the products in our pipeline, or that funding from outside sources and our revenue will be sufficient to bring any future product to the point of commercialization.. In addition, our future success partially depends on the successful completion of clinical trials demonstrating the utility of our product candidates. We currently have a number of pipeline products in development, some of which are or may become the subject of pivotal trials to demonstrate sufficient utility to support successful market adoption and/or to obtain regulatory approval for sale. Not all of our clinical trials may actually result in the successful commercialization of a product. We will not be able to commercialize our pipeline products if clinical trials do not produce successful results or if clinical trials do not demonstrate utility. In addition, the process for the completion of clinical trials and the regulatory approval submission process are lengthy and may be subject to a number of delays for various reasons, which could delay the commercialization of any product. If our development projects are not successful or are significantly delayed, we may not recover our substantial investments in the pipeline products, and our failure to bring these pipeline products to market on a timely basis, or at all, would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 19. Table of Contents. Even if we are successful in developing new products and securing regulatory approval to market them, we may not be able to achieve marketplace acceptance for our new products or generate significant revenue from their sale. As with our current T-SPOT.TB test, the success of any future products will depend upon the degree of market acceptance by physicians, hospitals, third-party payors and others in the medical community. Achieving market acceptance will require us to expend substantial time and resources to educate physicians and other members of the medical community on the benefits of any new product we develop and we may never be successful in gaining market acceptance of our new products. There can be no assurance that the products we seek to develop will work effectively in the marketplace, or that we will be able to produce them on an economical basis.. If we are unable to maintain and expand our network of direct sales representatives and independent distributors, we may not be able to generate anticipated sales.. We sell our T-SPOT.TB test through our own sales force in the United States, certain European countries and Japan and we sell through distributors in other parts of the world such as in China. Our operating results are directly dependent upon the sales and marketing efforts of not only our employees, but also our independent distributors. We expect our direct sales representatives and independent distributors to develop long-lasting relationships with the providers they serve. If our direct sales representatives or independent distributors fail to adequately promote, market and sell our product, our sales could significantly decrease.. We face significant challenges and risks in managing our geographically dispersed sales and distribution network and retaining the individuals who make up that network. If a substantial number of our direct sales representatives were to leave us within a short period of time, or if a substantial number of our independent distributors were to cease to do business with us within a short period of time, our sales could be adversely affected. If any significant independent distributor were to cease to distribute our product, our sales could be adversely affected. In such a situation, we may need to seek alternative independent distributors or increase our reliance on our direct sales representatives, which may not prevent our sales from being adversely affected. If a direct sales representative or independent distributor were to depart and be retained by one of our competitors, we may be unable to prevent them from helping competitors solicit business from our existing customers, which could further adversely affect our sales. Because of the intense competition for their services, we may be unable to recruit additional qualified independent distributors or to hire additional qualified direct sales representatives to work with us. We may also not be able to enter into agreements with them on favorable or commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Failure to hire or retain qualified direct sales representatives or independent distributors would prevent us from expanding our business and generating sales. See “Certain of our customers account for a significant portion of our revenue.”. As we launch new products and increase our sales, marketing and distribution efforts with respect to our T-SPOT.TB test, we will need to expand the reach of our sales, marketing and distribution networks. Our future success will depend largely on our ability to continue to hire, train, retain and motivate skilled direct sales representatives and independent distributors with significant technical knowledge in various areas. New hires require training and take time to achieve full productivity. If we fail to train new hires adequately, or if we experience high turnover in our sales force in the future, we cannot be certain that new hires will become as productive as may be necessary to maintain or increase our sales.. If we are unable to expand our sales and marketing capabilities domestically and internationally, we may not be able to effectively commercialize our products, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Health insurers and other payors may decide not to cover, or may discontinue reimbursing, our T-SPOT.TB test or any other diagnostic tests we offer or may offer, or may provide inadequate reimbursement, which could jeopardize our ability to expand our business.. Although for many of our current customers, including those in the hospital and public health segments, the cost of screening their employees for tuberculosis is not reimbursable, our business is somewhat impacted, and in the future may be more greatly impacted, by the level of reimbursement from payors or governmental limitations on price. In the United States, the regulatory process allows diagnostic tests to be marketed regardless of any coverage determinations made by payors. For new diagnostic tests, each payor makes its own decision about which tests it will cover, how much it will pay and whether it will continue reimbursing the test. Clinicians may order diagnostic tests that are not reimbursed if the patient is willing to pay for the test without reimbursement, but coverage determinations and reimbursement levels and conditions are important to the commercial success of a diagnostic product. In addition, eligibility for coverage does not imply that any product will be covered and reimbursed in all cases or reimbursed at a rate that allows our potential customers to make a profit or even cover their costs.. CMS establishes reimbursement payment levels and coverage rules for Medicare. CMS currently covers our T-SPOT.TB test. If CMS were to place significant restrictions on the use of our tests, reduce payment amounts or eliminate coverage altogether, our ability to generate revenue from our diagnostic tests could be limited. For example, payment for diagnostic tests furnished to Medicare beneficiaries is made based on a fee schedule set by CMS. In July 2013, CMS released certain proposals that re-examined payment amounts for tests reimbursed under the Medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule due to changes in technology. CMS also proposed to bundle the Medicare payments for certain laboratory tests ordered while a patient received services in a hospital outpatient setting, replacing the current methodology to make separate payments for the test. These changes went into effect on January 1, 2014. In addition, payment methodologies may be subject to changes in healthcare legislation. In February 2012, President Obama signed the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012, which mandated an additional change in reimbursement for clinical laboratory services payments. This legislation required CMS to reduce the Medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule by 2% in 2013, which in turn serves as the base for 2014 and subsequent years. Levels of reimbursement may continue to decrease in the future, and future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third-party payors may harm the demand and reimbursement available for our T-SPOT.TB test, which in turn, could harm our product pricing and sales. If our customers are not adequately reimbursed for our T-SPOT.TB test, they may reduce or discontinue purchases of our product, which would cause our revenues to decline.. 20. Table of Contents. The Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014, or PAMA, includes extensive revisions to the Medicare payment, coding, and coverage requirements for clinical diagnostic laboratory tests as well as creates a new subcategory of CDLTs called Advanced Diagnostic Laboratory Tests (ADLTs) with separate reporting and payment requirements. Under PAMA, the payment amount for CDLTs furnished on or after January 1, 2017, will be equal to the weighted median of private payor rates determined for the test, based on certain data reported by laboratories during a specified data collection period. Per the final payment rates and supporting documentation for the new private payor rate-based CLFS payment system published by CMS in late 2017, CMS reimbursement per test for CPT code 86481 is expected to be $100 in years 2018, 2019, and 2020.. In addition, state Medicaid plans and private commercial payors establish rates and coverage rules independently. As a result, the coverage determination process is often a time-consuming and costly process that requires us to provide scientific and clinical support for the use of our tests to each payor separately, with no assurance that coverage or adequate reimbursement will be obtained. Even if one or more third-party payors decides to reimburse for our tests, that payor may reduce utilization or stop or lower payment at any time, which could reduce our revenue. We cannot predict whether or when third-party payors will cover our tests or offer adequate reimbursement to make them commercially attractive. Clinicians may decide not to order our tests if inadequate third-party payments result in additional costs to the patient.. We are also subject to foreign reimbursement and payment schemes in the international markets we serve, including Japan, Switzerland, Germany, France and South Korea. Decisions by health insurers or other third-party payors in these markets not to cover, or to discontinue reimbursement, or governmental limitations on price could materially and adversely affect our business.. Billing complexities associated with obtaining payment or reimbursement for our tests may negatively affect our revenue, cash flow and profitability.. Although third-party payors accounted for only about 8% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017, we currently rely in part, and may in the future more heavily rely, on obtaining third-party payment or reimbursement for our test. We or our customers receive payment from individual patients and from a variety of payors, such as commercial insurance carriers, including managed care organizations and governmental programs, primarily Medicare and Medicaid in the United States. Each payor typically has different billing requirements, and the billing requirements of many payors have become increasingly stringent.. Among the factors complicating our billing of, and obtaining payment through, third-party payors are:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdisputes among payors as to which party is responsible for payment;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdisparity in coverage among various payors;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdisparity in information and billing requirements among payors;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincorrect or missing billing information, which is required to be provided by the ordering physician; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpayments may be sent directly to patients rather than to us.. These billing complexities, and the related uncertainty in obtaining payment for our tests, could negatively affect our revenue, cash flow and profitability.. We depend upon a limited number of suppliers, and certain components of our products may only be available from a sole source or limited number of suppliers.. Our T-SPOT.TB and T-SPOT.CMV tests are generally assembled by us from supplies we obtain from a limited number of suppliers. Critical components required to assemble our tests may only be available from a sole or limited number of component suppliers. For example, we source key components of our T-SPOT.TB test from EMD Millipore Corporation, Stemcell Technologies Inc., Mabtech AB, MicroCoat Biotechnologie GmbH and Life Technologies Corporation, any of whom would be difficult to replace. Even if the key components that we source are available from other parties, the time and effort involved in obtaining any necessary regulatory approvals for substitutes could impede our ability to replace such components timely or at all. The loss of a sole or key supplier would impair our ability to deliver products to our customers in a timely manner and would adversely affect our sales and operating results and negatively impact our reputation. Our business would also be harmed if any of our suppliers could not meet our quality and performance specifications and quantity and delivery requirements.. Certain of our customers account for a significant portion of our revenue.. We sell our T-SPOT.TB test through a direct sales force in the United States, certain European countries and Japan. In Japan, while we maintain end-user relationships through our direct sales force, we sell through a single importer of record, Riken. In other parts of the world, we sell through distributors. For example, in China, we sell through a single distributor, Fosun. For the year ended December 31, 2017, sales to Fosun and through Riken together accounted for 25% of our total revenue, with Fosun accounting for 14% and Riken accounting for 11%. In the event that either of these customers or any other significant customer substantially reduces its purchases of our products, particularly if this occurs without adequate advance notice to enable us to secure alternate importation or distribution arrangements, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. 21. Table of Contents. We or our suppliers may experience development or manufacturing problems or delays that could limit the growth of our revenue or increase our losses.. We may encounter unforeseen situations in the manufacture and assembly of our T-SPOT.TB test that would result in delays or shortfalls in our production. Our suppliers may also face similar delays or shortfalls. In addition, our or our suppliers’ production processes and assembly methods may have to change to accommodate any significant future expansion of our manufacturing capacity, which may increase our or our suppliers’ manufacturing costs, delay production of our product, reduce our product margin and adversely impact our business. If we are unable to keep up with demand for our product by successfully manufacturing and shipping our product in a timely manner, our revenue could be impaired, market acceptance for our product could be adversely affected and our customers might instead purchase our competitors’ products. In addition, developing manufacturing procedures for new products would require developing specific production processes for those products. Developing such processes could be time consuming, and any unexpected difficulty in doing so can delay the introduction of a product.. We currently perform our tests for our service offering exclusively in two laboratory facilities in the United States and one laboratory in the United Kingdom. If these or any future facilities or our equipment were damaged or destroyed, or if we experience a significant disruption in our operations for any reason, our ability to continue to operate our business could be materially harmed.. We currently perform our T-SPOT.TB test for our service offering in the United States at our laboratory facilities in Memphis, Tennessee and in Norwood, Massachusetts. In the United Kingdom we currently perform our T-SPOT.TB test exclusively in a single laboratory facility in Abingdon, England. In addition, our service offering for the testing for tick-borne diseases is performed exclusively in a single laboratory facility in Norwood, Massachusetts. If these or any future facilities were to be damaged, destroyed or otherwise unable to operate, whether due to fire, floods, hurricanes, storms, tornadoes, other natural disasters, employee malfeasance, terrorist acts, power outages, or otherwise, or if performance of our laboratories is disrupted for any other reason, we may not be able to perform our tests or generate test reports as promptly as our customers expect, or possibly not at all. Building or finding a replacement facility could be difficult, expensive and time consuming and any new laboratory would need to satisfy the various certification, accreditation and licensing requirements to which our current laboratory facilities are subject, including, for example, CLIA requirements in the United States. If we are unable to perform our tests or generate test reports within a timeframe that meets our customers’ expectations, our business, financial results and reputation could be materially harmed.. As of December 31, 2017, we maintain insurance coverage totaling $14.5 million against damage to our property and equipment and an additional $58.4 million to cover business interruption and research and development restoration expenses, subject to deductibles and other limitations. If we have underestimated our insurance needs with respect to an interruption, however, or if an interruption is not subject to coverage under our insurance policies, we may not be able to cover our losses. Even if we cover our losses, our business, financial results and reputation could be materially harmed.. Failure in our information technology or storage systems could significantly disrupt our operations and our research and development efforts, which could adversely impact our revenue, as well as our research, development and commercialization efforts.. Our ability to execute our business strategy depends, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our information technology, or IT, systems, which support our operations, including our Laboratory Information System, or LIS, our billing system, and our customer interfaces. Due to the sophisticated nature of the technology we use in our laboratories and our complex billing procedures, we are substantially dependent on our IT systems. IT systems are vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, malicious human acts and natural disasters. Moreover, despite network security and back-up measures, some of our servers are potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems. Despite the precautionary measures we have taken to prevent unanticipated problems that could affect our IT systems, sustained or repeated system failures that interrupt our ability to generate and maintain data, and in particular to operate our LIS or billing systems, could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. Any interruption in the operation of our LIS or billing systems, due to IT system failures, part failures or potential disruptions in the event we are required to relocate our IT systems within our facility or to another facility could have an adverse effect on our operations.. We rely on courier delivery services to transport samples to our facilities for testing. If these delivery services are disrupted, our business and customer satisfaction could be negatively impacted.. Customers in the United States and the United Kingdom ship samples to us by air and ground express courier delivery service for testing in our Memphis, Tennessee, Norwood, Massachusetts and Abingdon, England facilities. If we suffer from disruptions in delivery service, whether due to bad weather, natural disaster, terrorist acts or threats, or for other reasons, we may be unable to provide timely services to customers or at all. As a result, such disruptions could materially and adversely affect our financial results and our reputation.. 22. Table of Contents. Because our business relies heavily on international operations and revenue, changes in currency exchange rates and our need to convert currencies may negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our business relies heavily on our operations outside the United States. For the year ended December 31, 2017, 38% of our total revenue was derived from sales outside the United States. Because we currently operate in three major regions of the world (the United States, Europe and rest of world, or Europe and ROW, and Asia), our revenue is denominated in multiple currencies. Sales in the United States are denominated in U.S. Dollars. Sales in China are denominated in U.S. Dollars and sales in Japan are denominated in Yen but, in each case, these sales are made by our U.K.-based legal entity where the Pound Sterling is the functional currency. As a result, these sales are subject to remeasurement into Pounds Sterling and then translation into U.S. Dollars when we consolidate our financial statements. Sales in Europe are denominated primarily in the Pound Sterling and Euro. As we grow Europe and ROW sales outside the United Kingdom and the European Union countries, or the Euro Zone, whose national currency is the Euro, we will be subject to exchange rate risk from additional currencies. As a result, our exchange rate exposure may change over time as our business practices evolve and could result in increased costs or reduced revenue and could affect our actual cash flow. Changes in the relative values of currencies occur regularly and, in some instances, may have a significant impact on our operating results. We cannot predict with any certainty changes in currency exchange rates or the degree to which we can effectively mitigate these risks.. In addition, the weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar may require us to reduce prices to allow distributors to maintain profitable businesses. As a result, sales and earnings of our products in countries outside the United States may be materially adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.. A decline in the state of the global economy and financial market conditions could adversely affect our ability to conduct business and our results of operations.. Global economic and financial market conditions, including disruptions in the credit markets and the threat of or impact of global economic deterioration may materially impact our customers and other parties with whom we do business. Such conditions could negatively affect our future sales of our products. A decline in general economic and financial market conditions could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Specifically, the impact of these volatile and negative conditions may include decreased demand for our products and services, a decrease in our ability to accurately forecast future product trends and demand, and a negative impact on our ability to timely collect receivables from our customers. The foregoing economic conditions may lead to increased levels of bankruptcies, restructurings and liquidations for our customers, scaling back of research and development expenditures, delays in planned projects and shifts in business strategies for many of our customers. Such events could, in turn, adversely affect our business through loss of sales.. Uncertainty arising from global political events, including as a result of the June 2016 referendum on the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union, could adversely affect our ability to conduct business and our results of operations.. On June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom, or U.K., held a non-binding referendum, commonly referred to as “Brexit”, in which voters approved an exit from the European Union, or E.U. Thereafter, on March 29, 2017, the U.K. formally notified the E.U. of its intention to withdraw pursuant to Article 50 of the Treaty of the European Union, which formally initiated the withdrawal procedure and set the U.K. on track to exit the E.U. by no later than April 2019.. It appears likely that this withdrawal will involve a process of lengthy negotiations between the U.K. and E.U. member states to determine the future terms of the U.K.’s relationship with the E.U. For example, on December 8, 2017, the U.K. reached an agreement in principle with the E.U. on certain areas under consideration as part of the first phase of negotiations on the terms of its exit from the E.U. The ongoing negotiations between the U.K. and E.U., could lead to a period of considerable uncertainty and volatility, particularly in relation to U.K. financial and banking markets. There is also a risk that the vote by the U.K. to leave the E.U. could result in other member states re-considering their respective membership in the E.U. Weakening of economic conditions or economic uncertainties tend to harm our business, and if such conditions emerge in the U.K. or in the rest of Europe, it may have a material adverse effect on our operations and sales.. Although it is unknown what the terms of the U.K.’s future relationship with the E.U. will be, it is possible that there will be greater restrictions on trade between the U.K. and E.U. countries and increased regulatory complexities. These changes may adversely affect our operations and financial results. The announcement of Brexit also caused significant volatility in global currency markets. The fluctuation of currency exchange rates may expose us to gains and losses on non U.S. currency transactions and impact the purchasing power of our non U.S. currency customers, causing them to decrease or cancel orders or default on payment. Any global political uncertainty similar to the Brexit referendum could similarly harm our ability to conduct our business and our results of operations.. Changes in U.S. tax law may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in laws and policy relating to taxes or trade may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recent tax reforms in the U.S. have resulted in significant changes to preexisting U.S. tax rules and regulations. These changes may trigger an adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations.. Additionally, the 2016 U.S. presidential election introduced a great deal of uncertainty regarding trade policies, tariffs and government regulations, which if altered could have the potential to create a significant adverse effect on trade between the U.S. and other countries. Overall, changes in international trade relations, such as the imposition of or increase in tariffs or other trade barriers, could materially and adversely impact our costs and reduce the competitiveness of our products.. 23. Table of Contents. We have in the past and may in the future seek to grow our business through acquisitions of or investments in new or complementary businesses, products or technologies, and the failure to manage acquisitions or investments, or the failure to integrate them with our existing business, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and the value of our ordinary shares.. From time to time we expect to consider opportunities to acquire or make investments in other technologies, products and businesses that may enhance our capabilities, complement our current products or expand the breadth of our product offerings, markets or customer base. Potential and completed acquisitions and strategic investments involve numerous risks, including:. <U+25CF>     difficulties in acquiring new products, technologies or businesses that will help our current business;. <U+25CF>     difficulties in integrating acquired personnel, technologies, products or business operations;. <U+25CF>     issues maintaining uniform standards, procedures, controls and policies;. <U+25CF>     unanticipated costs associated with acquisitions;. <U+25CF>     diversion of management’s attention from our core business;. <U+25CF>     adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers;. <U+25CF>     risks associated with entering new markets in which we have limited or no experience;. <U+25CF>     potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses; and. <U+25CF>     increased legal and accounting compliance costs.. We have completed three acquisitions since 2014. On July 31, 2014, we acquired substantially all of the assets of Boulder, a privately owned company developing immunology-based assays for autoimmune and inflammatory conditions/diseases. On July 1, 2016, we acquired substantially all of the assets of Imugen, a privately owned Massachusetts corporation specializing in the development and performance of testing for tick-borne diseases, including Lyme disease. On October 12, 2016, we acquired Immunetics, a privately owned Massachusetts corporation focused on developing specialized tests for infectious diseases, including tick-borne diseases, such as Lyme disease.. These acquisitions brought us additional product pipeline opportunities which we believe are well-suited to our growing commercial infrastructure, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop and complete the development or commercialization of the products that we acquired in these acquisitions. Further, even if we are able to profitably commercialize the underlying product candidates, there is no guarantee that we will be able to do so before any competitors develop and commercialize similar products.. In addition to our completed acquisitions, any acquisitions we undertake in the future could be expensive and time consuming, and may disrupt our ongoing business and prevent management from focusing on our operations. If we are unable to manage acquisitions or investments, or integrate any future acquired businesses, products or technologies effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected.. Write-offs related to the impairments of our long-lived assets, including goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets may adversely impact our results of operations.. We have in the past and may in the future need to take write-offs as a result of impairments to certain of our long-lived assets. For example, in the third quarter of 2017, due to increased competition in the molecular blood donor screening market for Babesia microti, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $11.1 million to write-off certain intangible assets acquired in conjunction with the 2016 acquisition of Imugen. Additionally, in the fourth quarter of 2017, due to a mid-February CRL from FDA regarding the Company’s fourth quarter 2017 submissions in relation to its BLA for the Immunetics Babesia microti blood donor screening assay, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $7.2 million to write-off the related intangible assets.. Further, during the fourth quarter of 2016, we made the strategic decision to end our GoutiFind program. GoutiFind was a blood test designed to allow for early diagnosis of gout and better inform therapies by measuring the strength of the underlying uric acid induced inflammation. As a result of this decision, we recorded a non-cash IPR&D impairment charge of $270,000. Also during the fourth quarter of 2016, we recorded a non-cash IPR&D impairment charge of $1.4 million related to the SpiroFind assay when it was determined that the Boulder IPR&D will not directly yield any products.. 24. Table of Contents. Finally, during the third quarter of 2015, the timeline for the development of an assay to inform decisions regarding biologic therapies that was acquired as part of the Boulder acquisition was changed due to delays in the completion of research studies. Based upon the changed timeline and the resulting impact on fair value, we recorded a non-cash IPR&D impairment charge of $385,000.. We may incur additional non-cash charges related to impairments of our long-lived assets, including goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. We are required to perform periodic impairment reviews of these assets at least annually. To the extent future reviews conclude that the expected future cash flows generated from our business activities are not sufficient to recover the carrying value of these assets, we will be required to measure and record an impairment charge to write-down these assets to their realizable values and those impairment charges could be equal to the entire carrying value of the assets. Any such write-downs could adversely impact our operating results.. Our business could suffer if we lose the services of, or are unable to attract and retain, key members of our senior management, key advisors or other personnel.. We are dependent upon the continued services of key members of our senior management and a limited number of key advisors and personnel. In particular, we are highly dependent on the skills and leadership of our Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Peter Wrighton-Smith, and the other members of management named in the “Management” section elsewhere in this Annual Report. The loss of any one of these individuals could disrupt our operations or our strategic plans. Additionally, our future success will depend on, among other things, our ability to continue to hire and retain the necessary qualified scientific, technical, sales, marketing and managerial personnel, for whom we compete with numerous other companies, academic institutions and organizations. The loss of members of our management team, key advisors or personnel, or our inability to attract or retain other qualified personnel or advisors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Although all members of our senior management team have entered into agreements that restrict their ability to compete with us for a period of time after the end of their employment, we may be unable to enforce such restrictive covenants at all or for a sufficient duration of time to prevent members of our management team from competing with us.. Our ability to use net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be subject to substantial limitations.. As of December 31, 2017, our available U.S. federal net operating losses, or NOLs, totaled $160.5 million and U.S. state loss carryforwards totaled $154.9 million. The amount of these NOLs remains subject to review and possible adjustment by the Internal Revenue Service and state revenue authorities, as applicable. NOLs may become subject to an annual limitation if there is a cumulative change in the ownership interest of significant shareholders (or certain shareholder groups) over a three-year period in excess of 50%, in accordance with rules established under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, and similar state rules (we refer to each as an ownership change). Such an ownership change could limit the amount of historic NOLs that can be utilized annually to offset future taxable income. The amount of this annual limitation is determined based on our value immediately prior to the ownership change. We have completed several financings since our inception, including our most recent public offering of ordinary shares that closed on August 18, 2017, that may have resulted in one or more ownership changes under this definition. If we are deemed to have undergone an ownership change by virtue of these transactions, we may not be able to utilize a material portion of our NOLs even if we attain profitability. Future changes in our share ownership, some of which are outside of our control, could result in additional ownership changes for purposes of these rules. We are unable to predict future ownership changes or the way an ownership change could limit the use of our NOLs. In addition, recent changes to U.S. tax laws could negatively affect our ability to use net operating losses to offset future taxable income.. Risks related to regulatory and other legal issues.. If we fail to comply with extensive regulations of domestic and international regulatory authorities, sales of our T-SPOT.TB test in new markets and the development and commercialization of any new product candidates could be delayed or prevented.. Our existing tests, as well as new tests will be, subject to extensive government regulations related to development, testing, manufacturing and commercialization in the United States and other countries before we can sell in these markets. The process of obtaining and complying with FDA and other governmental regulatory approvals and regulations is costly, time consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. Securing regulatory approval for a new product, in the United States and many other countries, typically requires several years. Despite the time and expense exerted, regulatory approval is never guaranteed. We may not be able to obtain FDA or other required regulatory approval and market any further products we may develop during the time we anticipate, or at all. We also are subject to the following risks and obligations, among others:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tregulators may refuse to approve an application if they believe that applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tregulators may require additional testing for safety and effectiveness;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tregulators may interpret data from clinical studies in different ways than we interpret them;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tif regulatory approval of a product is granted, the approval may be limited to specific indications or limited with respect to its distribution; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tregulators may change their approval policies and/or adopt new regulations that affect our ability to secure approvals for new products, which would decrease the chance we would be able to commercialize new diagnostic tests.. 25. Table of Contents. In addition, some international jurisdictions, such as China, require periodic recertification. Even if we obtain initial certifications from regulatory bodies, we may lose certification after a periodic review. Failure to maintain requisite certifications from regulatory bodies would adversely affect our ability to generate future revenue and operating income.. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements, or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products, these products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market.. Any product for which we obtain marketing approval in the United States or in international jurisdictions, along with the manufacturing processes, post-approval clinical data and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. Furthermore, our suppliers may be subject to similar regulatory oversight, and may not currently be or may not continue to be in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. Failure by us or one of our suppliers to comply with statutes and regulations administered by the FDA and other regulatory bodies, or failure to take adequate action in response to any observations, could result in, among other things, any of the following enforcement actions:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twarning letters or untitled letters;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfines and civil penalties;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tunanticipated expenditures for corrective actions;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdelays in approving, or refusal to approve, our products;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twithdrawal or suspension of approval by the FDA or other regulatory bodies;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tproduct recall or seizures;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinterruption of production;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\toperating restrictions;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinjunctions; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcriminal penalties.. If any of these actions were to occur, it could harm our reputation and could cause our product sales and profitability to suffer.. Any regulatory approval of a product may also be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed. If the FDA or another regulatory body determines that our promotional materials, training or other activities constitute promotion of an unapproved use, it could request that we cease or modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our training or promotional materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under applicable statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement.. Additionally, we may be required to conduct costly post-market testing, and we will be required to report adverse events and malfunctions related to our products. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products, including unanticipated adverse events or adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, manufacturing problems, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements may result in restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of the products from the market, voluntary or mandatory recalls, fines, suspension of regulatory approvals, product seizures, injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties.. Furthermore, the FDA and various other authorities will inspect our facilities and those of our suppliers from time to time to determine whether we are in compliance with regulations relating to the manufacture of diagnostic products, including regulations concerning design, manufacture, testing, quality control, product labeling, distribution, promotion and record-keeping practices. A determination that we are in material violation of such regulations could lead to the imposition of civil penalties, including fines, product recalls, product seizures or, in extreme cases, criminal sanctions.. If we are unable to comply with the requirements of CLIA and state laws governing clinical laboratories or if we are required to expend significant additional resources to comply with these requirements, the success of our business could be threatened.. HHS has classified our T-SPOT and tick-borne disease tests as high-complexity tests under CLIA. Under CLIA, personnel requirements for laboratories conducting high-complexity tests are more stringent than those applicable to laboratories performing less complex tests. As a result of these personnel requirements, we must employ more experienced or more highly educated personnel and additional categories of employees, which increases our operating costs. If we fail to meet CLIA requirements, HHS or state agencies could require us to cease some or all of the tests that we offer. Continued compliance with CLIA requirements may cause us to incur significant expenses and potentially lose revenue in doing so. Moreover, new interpretations of current regulations or future changes in regulations under CLIA may make it difficult or impossible for us to comply with our CLIA classification, which would significantly harm our business.. Many states in which our physician and laboratory clients are located, such as New York, have laws and regulations governing clinical laboratories that are more stringent than federal law and may apply to us even if we are not located, and do not perform tests, in that state. We may also be subject to additional licensing requirements as we expand our sales and operations into new geographic areas, which could impair our ability to pursue our growth strategy.. 26. Table of Contents. We may potentially be subject to product liability claims.. The testing, manufacturing and marketing of medical diagnostic tests such as our T-SPOT.TB test entail an inherent risk of product liability claims. Further, providing clinical testing services entails a risk of claims for errors or omissions made by our laboratory staff. Potential liability claims may exceed the amount of our insurance coverage or may be excluded from coverage under the terms of the policy. As of December 31, 2017, we had product liability insurance of $15.4 million. Our existing insurance will have to be increased in the future if we are successful at introducing new diagnostic products and this will increase our costs. Under certain of our customer and license agreements, we have agreed to provide indemnification for product liability claims arising out of the use of our T-SPOT.TB test. In the event that we are held liable for a claim or for damages exceeding the limits of our insurance coverage, we may be required to make substantial payments.. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdecreased demand for our product and product candidates;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinjury to our reputation;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcosts of related litigation;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsubstantial monetary awards to patients and others;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tloss of revenue; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe inability to commercialize our products and product candidates.. Any of these outcomes may have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and may increase the volatility of our share price.. Our inadvertent or unintentional failure to comply with the complex government regulations concerning privacy of medical and personal information could subject us to fines and adversely affect our reputation.. Privacy regulations in the U.S. and around the world limit use or disclosure of protected personal information without written authorization or consent, except for permitted purposes outlined in the privacy regulations. The privacy regulations provide for significant fines and other penalties for wrongful use or disclosure of protected health information, including potential civil and criminal fines and penalties.. We have policies and practices that we believe make us compliant with the privacy regulations. Nevertheless, the documentation and process requirements of the privacy regulations are complex and subject to interpretation. Failure to comply with the privacy regulations could subject us to sanctions or penalties, loss of business and negative publicity.. In the U.S., the privacy regulations establish a “floor” of minimum protection for patients as to their medical information. We are required to comply with both HIPAA privacy regulations and various state privacy laws. Although the HIPAA statute and regulations do not expressly provide for a private right of action, we could incur damages under state laws to private parties for the wrongful use or disclosure of confidential health information or other private personal information. Internationally, virtually every jurisdiction in which we operate has established its own data security and privacy legal framework with which we or our customers must comply, including the General Data Protection Regulation established in the European Union. We may also need to comply with varying and possibly conflicting privacy laws and regulations in other jurisdictions. As a result, we could face regulatory actions, including significant fines or penalties, adverse publicity and possible loss of business.. A disruption in our computer networks, including those related to cybersecurity, could adversely affect our financial performance.. We rely on our computer networks and systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to manage and store electronic information (including sensitive data such as confidential business information and personally identifiable data relating to employees, customers and other business partners), and to manage or support a variety of critical business processes and activities. We may face threats to our networks from unauthorized access, security breaches and other system disruptions. Despite our security measures, our infrastructure may be vulnerable to external or internal attacks. Any such security breach may compromise information stored on our networks and may result in significant data losses or theft of sensitive or proprietary information. A cybersecurity breach could hurt our reputation by adversely affecting the perception of customers and potential customers of the security of their orders and personal information. In addition, a cybersecurity attack could result in other negative consequences, including disruption of our internal operations, increased cyber security protection costs, lost revenue, regulatory actions or litigation. Any disruption of could also have a material adverse impact on our operations. To date, we have not experienced any material cybersecurity attacks.. Our use of biological and hazardous materials and waste requires us to comply with regulatory requirements, including environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and permit requirements and subjects us to significant costs and exposes us to potential liabilities.. The handling of materials used in the diagnostic testing process involves the controlled use of biological and hazardous materials and wastes. The primary hazardous materials we handle or use include human blood samples and solvents. Our business and facilities and those of our suppliers are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of human health and the environment, including those governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of, and exposure to, such materials and wastes. In addition, under some environmental laws and regulations, we could be held responsible for costs relating to any contamination at our past or present facilities and at third-party waste disposal sites even if such contamination was not caused by us. A failure to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations, including the failure to obtain, maintain or comply with any required permits, could result in severe fines or penalties. Any such expenses or liability could have a significant negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with regulatory requirements in the future.. 27. Table of Contents. Our business arrangements with customers and third-party payors are subject to applicable anti-kickback, anti-fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations. If such business arrangements fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be exposed to criminal sanctions, civil penalties, contractual damages, reputational harm and diminished profits and future earnings.. Healthcare providers, physicians and third-party payors play a primary role in the recommendation and ordering of any product candidates, including our T-SPOT.TB test, for which we obtain marketing approval. Our arrangements with third-party payors and customers may expose us to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we market, sell and distribute our product. Restrictions under applicable federal and state healthcare laws and regulations include the following:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe U.S. federal healthcare anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service, for which payment may be made under federally funded healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. This statute has been broadly interpreted to apply to manufacturer arrangements with prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers, among others. Several other countries, including the United Kingdom, have enacted similar anti-kickback, fraud and abuse, and healthcare laws and regulations.. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe U.S. False Claims Act imposes criminal and civil penalties against individuals or entities for knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, to the federal government, claims for payment that are false or fraudulent or making a false statement to avoid, decrease or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government.. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tHIPAA imposes criminal and civil liability for executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program and also imposes obligations, including mandatory contractual terms, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. HIPAA also imposes criminal liability for knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services.. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe federal Physician Payment Sunshine Act requirements under the PPACA require manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies to report to HHS information related to payments and other transfers of value made to or at the request of covered recipients, such as physicians and teaching hospitals, and physician ownership and investment interests in such manufacturers. Payments made to physicians and research institutions for clinical trials are included within the ambit of this law. Certain state laws and regulations also require the reporting of certain items of value provided to health care professionals.. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tAnalogous state laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws, may apply to sales or marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by non-governmental third-party payors, including private insurers.. Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements with third parties will comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations involve substantial costs. We may be subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government under the U.S. Federal False Claims Act, which would include claims for up to treble damages. Additionally, it is possible that governmental authorities would conclude that our business practices do not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law involving applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from government funded healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Exclusion, suspension and debarment from government funded healthcare programs would significantly impact our ability to commercialize, sell or distribute any product. If any of the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we expect to do business are found to be not in compliance with applicable laws, they may be subject to criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including exclusions from government funded healthcare programs.. We are subject to the U.K. Bribery Act, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws, as well as export control laws, customs laws, sanctions laws and other laws governing our operations. If we fail to comply with these laws, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, other remedial measures, and legal expenses, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our operations are subject to anti-corruption laws, including the U.K. Bribery Act 2010, or Bribery Act, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and other anti-corruption laws that apply in countries where we do business. The Bribery Act, FCPA and these other laws generally prohibit us and our employees and intermediaries from bribing, being bribed or making other prohibited payments to government officials or other persons to obtain or retain business or gain some other business advantage. We and our commercial partners operate in a number of jurisdictions that pose a high risk of potential Bribery Act or FCPA violations, and we participate in collaborations and relationships with third parties whose actions could potentially subject us to liability under the Bribery Act, FCPA or local anti-corruption laws. In addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted.. 28. Table of Contents. We are also subject to other laws and regulations governing our international operations, including regulations administered by the governments of the United Kingdom and the United States, and authorities in the European Union, including applicable export control regulations, economic sanctions on countries and persons, customs requirements and currency exchange regulations, collectively referred to as the Trade Control laws.. There is no assurance that we will be completely effective in ensuring our compliance with all applicable anti-corruption laws, including the Bribery Act, the FCPA or other legal requirements, including Trade Control laws. If we violate provisions of the Bribery Act, the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws or Trade Control laws, we may be subject to criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement and other sanctions and remedial measures, and legal expenses, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Likewise, any investigation into or audit of us of any potential violations of the Bribery Act, the FCPA, other anti-corruption laws or Trade Control laws by U.K., U.S. or other authorities could subject us to fines or criminal or other penalties, which could have an adverse impact on our reputation, our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Healthcare reform measures could hinder or prevent the commercial success of our diagnostic tests.. In March 2010, President Obama signed into law a legislative overhaul of the U.S. healthcare system, the PPACA, which had far-reaching consequences for many healthcare companies, including diagnostic companies like us. For example, if reimbursement for our diagnostic tests is substantially less than we or our clinical laboratory customers expect, our business could be materially and adversely impacted. However, the future of the PPACA is uncertain and at this juncture there will be a period of uncertainty regarding the PPACA’s repeal, modification or replacement or the effect of the changes made to the PPACA under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, any of which could have long term financial impact on the delivery of and payment for healthcare in the U.S.. Regardless of the impact of the PPACA on us, the U.S. government and other governments have shown significant interest in pursuing healthcare reform and reducing healthcare costs. Any government-adopted reform measures could cause significant pressure on the pricing of healthcare products and services, including our T-SPOT.TB test, in the United States and internationally, as well as the amount of reimbursement available from governmental agencies and other third-party payors.. Actual and anticipated changes to the regulations of the healthcare system and U.S. tax laws may have a negative impact on the cost of healthcare coverage and reimbursement of healthcare services and products.. The FDA and comparable agencies in other jurisdictions directly regulate many critical activities of life science, technology, and healthcare industries, including the conduct of preclinical and clinical studies, product manufacturing, advertising and promotion, product distribution, adverse event reporting, and product risk management. In both domestic and foreign markets, sales of products depend in part on the availability and amount of reimbursement by third-party payors, including governments and private health plans. Governments may regulate coverage, reimbursement, and pricing of products to control cost or affect utilization of products. Private health plans may also seek to manage cost and utilization by implementing coverage and reimbursement limitations. Substantial uncertainty exists regarding the reimbursement by third-party payors of newly approved healthcare products. The U.S. and foreign governments regularly consider reform measures that affect healthcare coverage and costs. Such reforms may include changes to the coverage and reimbursement of healthcare services and products. In particular, there have been recent judicial and Congressional challenges to the PPACA, which could have an impact on coverage and reimbursement for healthcare services covered by plans authorized by the PPACA, and we expect there will be additional challenges and amendments to the PPACA in the future.. Attempts to repeal or to repeal and replace the PPACA will likely continue under the current Congress. In addition, various other healthcare reform proposals have emerged at the federal and state level. The recent changes to U.S. tax laws could also negatively impact the PPACA. We cannot predict what healthcare initiatives or tax law changes, if any, will be implemented at the federal or state level, however, government and other regulatory oversight and future regulatory and government interference with the healthcare systems could adversely impact our business.. Risks related to our intellectual property.. We may be unable to protect or obtain proprietary rights that we utilize or intend to utilize.. In developing, manufacturing and using our T-SPOT.TB test, we employ a variety of proprietary and patented technologies, including technologies we license from third parties. We have licensed, and expect to continue to license, various other technologies and methods. We cannot provide any assurance that the intellectual property rights that we own or license provide protection from competitive threats or that we would prevail in any challenge mounted to our intellectual property rights. See “Legal Proceedings” for more information. In addition, we cannot provide any assurances that we will be successful in obtaining and retaining licenses or proprietary or patented technologies in the future.. 29. Table of Contents. We are unable to predict whether any of our currently pending or future patent applications will result in issued patents, or how long it may take for such patents to be issued. Further, we cannot predict whether other parties will challenge any patents issued or licensed to us or that courts or administrative agencies will hold our patents or the patents we license to be valid and enforceable. We may not be successful in defending challenges made against our patents and patent applications. Any successful third-party challenge to our patents could result in the unenforceability or invalidity of such patents. Both the patent application process and the process of managing patent disputes can be time consuming and expensive.. The patent positions of life sciences companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in such companies’ patents has emerged to date in the United States. Furthermore, in the biotechnology field, courts frequently render opinions that may affect the patentability of certain inventions or discoveries and the patent positions of companies engaged in development and commercialization of certain diagnostic tests. Various courts, including the U.S. Supreme Court, have recently rendered decisions that impact the scope of patentability of certain inventions or discoveries relating to genomic diagnostics. These decisions generally stand for the proposition that inventions that recite laws of nature are not themselves patentable unless they have sufficient additional features that provide practical assurance that the processes are genuine inventive applications of those laws rather than patent drafting efforts designed to monopolize the law of nature itself. What constitutes a “sufficient” additional feature is uncertain. While we do not generally rely on gene sequence patents, this evolving case law in the United States may adversely impact our ability to obtain new patents and may facilitate third-party challenges to our existing owned and licensed patents.. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States or other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property rights. We cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in patents we own or in those to which we have license rights. For example:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe inventor might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by patents we rely on;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe inventor or his assignee might not have been the first to file patent applications for the claimed inventions;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tothers may independently develop similar or alternative products and technologies or duplicate our product and technologies;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tit is possible that the patents we own or license may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged and invalidated by third parties;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tany patents we obtain or license may expire before, or shortly after, the products and services relating to such patents are commercialized;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may not develop additional proprietary products and technologies that are patentable; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business.. In particular, in September 2011, the U.S. Congress passed the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the AIA, which became effective in March 2013. The AIA reforms U.S. patent law in part by changing the standard for patent approval for certain patents from a “first to invent” standard to a “first to file” standard and developing a post-grant review system. It is too early to determine what the effect or impact the AIA will have on the operation of our business and the protection and enforcement of our intellectual property. However, the AIA and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. Some patent applications in the United States may be maintained in secrecy until the patents are issued, other patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are not published until eighteen months after filing, and publications in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries. We therefore cannot be certain that others have not filed patent applications for technology covered by issued patents or pending applications that we own or license or that we or our licensors, as applicable, were the first to invent the technology (pre-AIA) or first to file (post-AIA). Our competitors may have filed, and may in the future file, patent applications covering technology similar or the same as ours. Any such patent application may have priority over patent applications that we own or license and could further require us to obtain rights to such technologies in order to carry on our business. If another party has filed a U.S. patent application on inventions similar or the same as those that we own or license, we or our licensors may have to participate in an interference or other proceeding in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, or a court to determine priority of invention in the United States, for pre-AIA applications and patents. For post-AIA applications and patents, we or our licensors may have to participate in a derivation proceeding to resolve disputes relating to inventorship. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial, and it is possible that such efforts would be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our U.S. patent position with respect to such inventions.. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent disputes and litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any disputes or litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the funds necessary to continue our operations.. 30. Table of Contents. In addition to pursuing patents on our technology, we seek to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology by entering into intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants and third-party collaborators. See “We may be unable to adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information, or the misappropriation of the intellectual property we regard as our own.”. Our intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to protect our competitive position and to prevent others from manufacturing, using or selling competing products.. The scope of our owned and licensed intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to prevent others from manufacturing, using or selling competing tests. For example, our intellectual property position depends in part on intellectual property that we license from third parties. However, many of the key patents we license are expected to expire by 2020. In addition, while many of the licenses we have been granted are exclusive, such rights may be limited to a narrowly defined field of use. As a result, our competitors may have obtained or be able to obtain a license to the same intellectual property in a closely related field of use. Finally, we have also granted sublicenses to third parties under certain of the intellectual property that we license. Such sublicenses may allow third parties or their licensees to market a TB test that would otherwise infringe upon such intellectual property.. Moreover, competitors could purchase our product and attempt to replicate some or all of the competitive advantages we derive from our development efforts, willfully infringe our intellectual property rights, design around our protected technology or develop their own competitive technologies that fall outside of our intellectual property rights. If our intellectual property is not adequately protected so as to protect our market against competitors’ products and methods, our competitive position could be adversely affected, as could our business.. We depend on certain technologies that are licensed or sublicensed to us. We do not control these technologies and any loss of our rights to them could prevent us from selling our product.. We rely on licenses in order to be able to use various proprietary technologies that are material to our business. We do not own the patents that underlie these licenses. Our rights to use these technologies and employ the inventions claimed in the licensed patents are subject to the continuation of and our compliance with the terms of those licenses.. In some cases, we do not control the prosecution, maintenance or filing of the patents to which we hold licenses. Enforcement of our licensed patents or defense of any claims asserting the invalidity of these patents is often subject to the control or cooperation of our licensors. We cannot be certain that our licensors will prosecute, maintain, enforce and defend the licensed patent rights in a manner consistent with the best interests of our business. We also cannot be certain that drafting or prosecution of the licensed patents and patent applications by the licensors have been or will be conducted in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, will result in valid and enforceable patents and other intellectual property rights, or that any issued patents or patents that may issue in the future will provide any competitive advantage.. Certain of our licenses contain provisions that allow the licensor to terminate the license upon specific conditions. Our rights under each of the licenses are subject to our continued compliance with the terms of the license, including certain diligence, disclosure and confidentiality obligations and the payment of royalties and other fees. If we were found to be in breach of any of our license agreements, in certain circumstances our licensors may take action against us, including termination of the applicable license. Because of the complexity of our product and the patents we have licensed, determining the scope of the license and related obligations can be difficult and can lead to disputes between us and the licensor. An unfavorable resolution of such a dispute could lead to an increase in the royalties payable pursuant to the license or termination of the license. If a licensor believed we were not paying the royalties due under the license or were otherwise not in compliance with the terms of the license, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license or, in certain circumstances, to convert an exclusive license to a non-exclusive one. If such an event were to occur, the value of our product or product candidates could be materially adversely affected, we might be barred from producing and selling some or all of our products and may be subject to other liabilities.. In addition to the above risks, certain of our licensors do not own certain intellectual property included in the license, but instead have licensed such intellectual property from a third party, and have granted us a sub-license. As a result, the actions of our licensors or of the ultimate owners of the intellectual property may affect our rights to use our sublicensed intellectual property, even if we are in compliance with all of the obligations under our license agreements. For example, one of our licenses comprises a sublicense to us of certain patent rights owned by a third party that is not our direct licensor. If our licensors were to fail to comply with their obligations under the agreements pursuant to which they obtain the rights that are sublicensed to us, or should such agreements be terminated or amended, our ability to produce and sell our product and product candidates may be materially harmed. Finally, the legal issues surrounding the treatment of intellectual property licenses in bankruptcy proceedings are complex and may vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. We therefore cannot provide assurance that we would not lose some or all of our rights under a license if the applicable licensor was involved in such proceedings.. 31. Table of Contents. We may become involved in disputes relating to our intellectual property rights, and may need to resort to litigation in order to defend and enforce our intellectual property rights. In addition, we could face claims that our activities or the manufacture, use or sale of our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which could cause us to pay substantial damages or licensing fees and limit our ability to sell some or all of our products and services.. Extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights has been common in the medical diagnostics industry. Litigation may be necessary to assert infringement claims, enforce patent rights, protect trade secrets or know-how and determine the enforceability, scope and validity of certain proprietary rights. Litigation may even be necessary to resolve disputes of inventorship or ownership of proprietary rights. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property lawsuits, PTO interference or derivation proceedings, and related legal and administrative proceedings (e.g., a reexamination) in the U.S. and internationally involve complex legal and factual questions. As a result, such proceedings are costly and time consuming to pursue, and their outcome is uncertain. See “Legal Proceedings” for information regarding our proceeding with Qiagen.. Even if we prevail in such a proceeding, the remedy we obtain may not be commercially meaningful or adequately compensate us for any damages we may have suffered. If we do not prevail in such a proceeding, certain of our patents could potentially be declared to be invalid, unenforceable or narrowed in scope, or we could otherwise lose valuable intellectual property rights. Similar proceedings involving the intellectual property we license could also have an impact on our business. For example, the scope of one of the European patents that we license from Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, was narrowed as a result of a third-party opposition proceeding before the European Patent Office. The decision is currently under appeal and the outcome of that appeal may adversely affect our competitive position. Further, if any of our other owned or licensed patents are declared invalid, unenforceable or narrowed in scope, our competitive position could be adversely affected.. In addition, our research, development and commercialization activities, including our T-SPOT.TB test, may infringe or be claimed to infringe patents or other intellectual property rights owned by other parties. Certain of our competitors and other companies have substantial patent portfolios, and may attempt to use patent litigation as a means to obtain a competitive advantage or to extract licensing revenue. The risks of being involved in such litigation may also increase as we gain greater visibility as a public company and as we gain commercial acceptance of our products and move into new markets and applications for our products. There may also be patents and patent applications that are relevant to our technologies or tests that we are not aware of. For example, certain relevant patent applications may have been filed but not published. If such patents exist, or if a patent issues on any of such patent applications, that patent could be asserted against us. In addition to patent infringement claims, we may also be subject to other claims relating to the violation of intellectual property rights, such as claims that we have misappropriated trade secrets or infringed third-party trademarks.. Regardless of merit or outcome, our involvement in any litigation, interference or other administrative proceedings could cause us to incur substantial expense and could significantly divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. Any public announcements related to litigation or interference proceedings initiated or threatened against us could cause our share price to decline. An adverse determination, or any actions we take or agreements we enter into in order to resolve or avoid disputes, may subject us to the loss of our proprietary position or to significant liabilities, or require us to seek licenses that may include substantial cost and ongoing royalties. Licenses may not be available from third parties, or may not be obtainable on satisfactory terms. An adverse determination or a failure to obtain necessary licenses may restrict or prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products and offering our services. These outcomes could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property outside of the United States.. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to biotechnology, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our licensed and owned patents. For example, we are aware that third parties, particularly in China, are currently selling TB diagnostic products that we believe are covered by certain patents we license. We do not know whether our licensor will take all necessary steps to enforce its patent rights in China or whether it will obtain effective relief to stop the sale of products that infringe on its patent rights. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial cost and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. Additionally, prosecuting and maintaining intellectual property (particularly patent) rights are very costly endeavors, and for these and other reasons we may not pursue or obtain patent protection in all major markets. We do not know whether legal and government fees will increase substantially and therefore are unable to predict whether cost may factor into our global intellectual property strategy.. In addition to the risks associated with patent rights, the laws in some foreign jurisdictions may not provide protection for our trade secrets and other intellectual property. If our trade secrets or other intellectual property are misappropriated in foreign jurisdictions, we may be without adequate remedies to address these issues. Additionally, we also rely on confidentiality and assignment of invention agreements to protect our intellectual property in foreign jurisdictions. These agreements may provide for contractual remedies in the event of misappropriation, but we do not know to what extent, if any, these agreements and any remedies for their breach, will be enforced by a foreign court. In the event our intellectual property is misappropriated or infringed upon and an adequate remedy is not available, our future prospects will likely diminish. The sale of products that infringe our intellectual property rights, particularly if such products are offered at a lower cost, could negatively impact our ability to achieve commercial success and may materially and adversely harm our business.. 32. Table of Contents. Our failure to secure trademark registrations could adversely affect our business and our ability to market our product and product candidates.. Our trademark applications in the United States and any other jurisdictions where we may file may not be allowed for registration, and our registered trademarks may not be maintained or enforced. During trademark registration proceedings, we may receive rejections. Although we are given an opportunity to respond to those rejections, we may be unable to overcome such rejections. In addition, in the PTO and in corresponding foreign agencies, third parties are given an opportunity to oppose pending trademark applications and to seek to cancel registered trademarks. Opposition or cancellation proceedings may be filed against our applications and/or registrations, and our applications and/or registrations may not survive such proceedings. Failure to secure such trademark registrations in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions could adversely affect our business and our ability to market our product and product candidates.. Obtaining and maintaining our patent protection depends upon compliance with various procedural, document submission, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements.. The PTO and various foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other provisions during the patent prosecution process and following the issuance of a patent. There are situations in which noncompliance with these requirements can result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. In such an event, competitors might be able to enter the market earlier than would otherwise have been the case if our patent were in force.. We may be unable to adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information, or the misappropriation of the intellectual property we regard as our own.. We rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary know-how and technological advances, particularly where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. Nevertheless, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, third-party collaborators and other advisors to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information. These agreements generally require that the other party to the agreement keep confidential and not disclose to third parties all confidential information developed by the party or made known to the party by us during the course of the party’s relationship with us. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Monitoring unauthorized disclosure is difficult, and we do not know whether the steps we have taken to prevent such disclosure are, or will be, adequate. If we were to seek to pursue a claim that a third party had illegally obtained and was using our trade secrets, it would be expensive and time consuming, and the outcome would be unpredictable. Further, courts outside the United States may be less willing to protect trade secrets. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights. In addition, our trade secrets and proprietary information may be misappropriated as a result of breaches of our electronic or physical security systems in which case we may have no legal recourse. Failure to obtain, or maintain, trade secret protection could enable competitors to use our proprietary information to develop products that compete with our product or cause additional, material adverse effects upon our competitive business position.. We may be subject to claims that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers.. As is common in the medical diagnostics industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other medical diagnostics companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. We may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management.. Risks related to our ordinary shares.. We are eligible to be treated as an emerging growth company and we cannot be certain that the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will not make our ordinary shares less attractive to investors.. We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, or JOBS Act. For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including (1) not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, (2) reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and (3) exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved.. 33. Table of Contents. We could be an emerging growth company for up to five years from the date of our initial public offering, or November 2018, although we could lose that status sooner if our gross revenues exceed $1.07 billion, if we issue more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt in a three-year period, or if we are deemed to be a \"large accelerated filer\" (the fiscal year-end on which the market value of our ordinary shares held by non-affiliates exceeded $700 million as of the end of the second quarter of such year), in which case we would no longer be an emerging growth company as of the following December 31.. We cannot predict if investors will find our ordinary shares less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our ordinary shares less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our ordinary shares and our share price may be more volatile.. Our share price may be volatile.. Like other early-stage medical diagnostic companies, the market price of our ordinary shares may be volatile. The factors below may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfluctuations in our results of operations;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to enter new markets;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnegative publicity;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in securities or industry analyst recommendations regarding our company, the sectors in which we operate, the securities market generally and conditions in the financial markets;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tregulatory developments affecting our industry;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tannouncements of studies and reports relating to our products or those of our competitors;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in economic performance or market valuations of our competitors;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tconditions in the industries in which we operate;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tannouncements by us or our competitors of new products, acquisitions, strategic relations, joint ventures or capital commitments;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadditions to or departures of our key executives and employees;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfluctuations of exchange rates;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trelease or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsales or perceived sales of additional shares of our ordinary shares.. In addition, the equity markets have recently experienced significant volatility, particularly with respect to the securities of life sciences companies. The volatility of the securities of life sciences companies often does not relate to the operating performance of those companies. As we operate in a single industry, we are especially vulnerable to these factors to the extent that they affect our industry or our products, or to a lesser extent our markets. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources, and could also require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments or to settle litigation.. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our ordinary shares in the foreseeable future.. We have never paid dividends on ordinary shares and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our ordinary shares in the foreseeable future. Under English law, any payment of dividends would be subject to relevant legislation and our articles of association, which provide that all dividends must be approved by our Board of Directors and, in some cases, our shareholders, and may only be paid from our distributable profits available for the purpose, determined on an unconsolidated basis.. Our executive officers, directors, and 5% or greater shareholders and management own a significant percentage of our ordinary shares and will be able to exercise significant influence over matters subject to shareholder approval.. Our executive officers, directors, and 5% or greater shareholders beneficially own a substantial percentage of our ordinary shares. For example, as of December 31, 2017, our executive officers, directors, and 5% or greater shareholders and their affiliates beneficially owned approximately 31% of our outstanding ordinary shares in the aggregate. We expect that these shareholders will be able to exert a significant degree of influence over our management and affairs and over matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of our Board of Directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of entrenching our management and/or our Board of Directors, delaying or preventing a change in our control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have a material and adverse effect on the fair market value of our ordinary shares.. 34. Table of Contents. We incur increased costs as a result of being a public company whose ordinary shares are publicly traded in the United States and our management must devote substantial time to public company compliance programs.. As a public company, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, insurance, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. We intend to continue to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment will result in increased general and administrative expenses and may divert management’s time and attention. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed. Our insurance costs have increased, particularly for directors and officers liability insurance. Such costs may further increase in the future, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our Board of Directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee and remuneration committee, and qualified executive officers.. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404, we are required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting, and, once we cease to be an emerging growth company, we will be required to include an attestation report on internal control over financial reporting issued by our independent registered public accounting firm. We cannot assure you that there will not be material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls in the future.. Our ordinary shares are listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, but we cannot guarantee that we will be able to satisfy the continued listing standards going forward.. Although our ordinary shares are listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, we cannot ensure that we will be able to satisfy the continued listing standards of The NASDAQ Global Market going forward. If we cannot satisfy the continued listing standards going forward, The NASDAQ Stock Market may commence delisting procedures against us, which could result in our ordinary shares being removed from listing on The NASDAQ Global Market. If our ordinary shares were to be delisted, the liquidity of our ordinary shares could be adversely affected and the market price of our ordinary shares could decrease. Delisting could also adversely affect our shareholders’ ability to trade or obtain quotations on our shares because of lower trading volumes and transaction delays. These factors could contribute to lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask price for our ordinary shares. You may also not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid for such shares or at all.. English law and provisions in our articles of association may have anti-takeover effects that could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our shareholders, and may prevent attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management.. Certain provisions of English law and our articles of association may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us or changes in our management. For example, English law and our articles of association include provisions that:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcreate a classified Board of Directors whose members serve staggered three-year terms;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprohibit shareholder action by written resolution;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\testablish an advance notice procedure for shareholder approvals to be brought before an annual meeting of our shareholders, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our Board of Directors; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprovide that vacancies on our Board of Directors may be filled only by a majority of directors then in office, even though less than a quorum.. These provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. See also “Provisions in the U.K. City Code on Takeovers and Mergers may have anti-takeover effects that could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our shareholders.”. Our holding company structure makes us dependent on the operations of our subsidiaries to meet our financial obligations.. We are a public limited company organized under the laws of England and Wales and have no significant assets other than our interest in Oxford Immunotec Limited and its subsidiaries. As a result, we rely exclusively upon payments, dividends and distributions from our direct and indirect subsidiaries for our cash flows. Our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders is dependent on the ability of our subsidiaries to generate sufficient net income and cash flows to pay upstream dividends and make loans or loan repayments. However, we have never paid dividends on ordinary shares and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our ordinary shares in the foreseeable future.. Risks related to being an English company listing ordinary shares.. U.S. investors may have difficulty enforcing civil liabilities against our company, our directors or members of senior management.. We are incorporated under the laws of England and Wales. The rights of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by English law, including the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, and by our articles of association. These rights differ in certain respects from the rights of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations organized in Delaware. Many of our directors and officers reside outside the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and all or a substantial portion of the assets of such persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to serve legal process on us or our directors and executive officers or have any of them appear in a U.S. court. The United States and the United Kingdom do not currently have a treaty providing for the recognition and enforcement of judgments, other than arbitration awards, in civil and commercial matters. The enforceability of any judgment of a U.S. federal or state court in the United Kingdom will depend on the laws and any treaties in effect at the time, including conflicts of laws principles (such as those bearing on the question of whether a U.K. court would recognize the basis on which a U.S. court had purported to exercise jurisdiction over a defendant). In this context, there is doubt as to the enforceability in the United Kingdom of civil liabilities based solely on the federal securities laws of the United States. In addition, awards for punitive damages in actions brought in the United States or elsewhere may be unenforceable in the United Kingdom. An award for monetary damages under the U.S. securities laws would likely be considered punitive if it did not seek to compensate the claimant for loss or damage suffered and was intended to punish the defendant.. 35. Table of Contents. Provisions in the U.K. City Code on Takeovers and Mergers may have anti-takeover effects that could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our shareholders.. The U.K. City Code on Takeovers and Mergers, or the Takeover Code, applies, among other things, to an offer for a public company whose registered office is in the United Kingdom (or the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man) and whose securities are not admitted to trading on a regulated market in the United Kingdom (or the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man) if the company is considered by the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers, or the Takeover Panel, to have its place of central management and control in the United Kingdom (or the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man). This is known as the “residency test.” The test for central management and control under the Takeover Code is different from that used by the U.K. tax authorities. Under the Takeover Code, the Takeover Panel will determine whether we have our place of central management and control in the United Kingdom by looking at various factors, including the structure of our Board of Directors, the functions of the directors and where they are resident.. If at the time of a takeover offer the Takeover Panel determines that we have our place of central management and control in the United Kingdom, we would be subject to a number of rules and restrictions, including but not limited to the following: (1) our ability to enter into deal protection arrangements with a bidder would be extremely limited; (2) we might not, without the approval of our shareholders, be able to perform certain actions that could have the effect of frustrating an offer, such as issuing shares or carrying out acquisitions or disposals; and (3) we would be obliged to provide equality of information to all bona fide competing bidders.. If we are a passive foreign investment company, U.S. investors in our ordinary shares could be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences.. The rules governing passive foreign investment companies, or PFICs, can have adverse effects for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The tests for determining PFIC status for a taxable year depend upon the relative values of certain categories of assets and the relative amounts of certain kinds of income. We do not believe that we are currently a PFIC, and we do not anticipate becoming a PFIC in the foreseeable future. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the determination of whether we are a PFIC depends on the particular facts and circumstances (such as the valuation of our assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets) and may also be affected by the application of the PFIC rules, which are subject to differing interpretations. The fair market value of our assets is expected to depend, in part, upon (a) the market price of our ordinary shares and (b) the composition of our income and assets, which will be affected by how, and how quickly, we spend any cash that is raised in any financing transaction. In light of the foregoing, no assurance can be provided that we are not currently a PFIC or that we will not become a PFIC in any future taxable year.. If we are a PFIC, U.S. holders of our ordinary shares would be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences, such as ineligibility for any preferred tax rates on capital gains or on actual or deemed dividends, interest charges on certain taxes treated as deferred, and additional reporting requirements under U.S. federal income tax laws and regulations. Whether or not U.S. holders of our ordinary shares make a timely qualified electing fund, or QEF, election or mark-to-market election may affect the U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders with respect to the acquisition, ownership and disposition of our ordinary shares and any distributions such U.S. holders may receive. Investors should consult their own tax advisors regarding all aspects of the application of the PFIC rules to our ordinary shares.. U.S. holders of 10% or more of the voting power of our ordinary shares may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation at ordinary income tax rates on undistributed earnings and profits.. There is a risk that we will be classified as a controlled foreign corporation, or CFC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We will generally be classified as a CFC if more than 50% of our outstanding shares, measured by reference to voting power or value, are owned (directly, indirectly or by attribution) by “U.S. Shareholders.” For this purpose, a “U.S. Shareholder” is any U.S. person that owns directly, indirectly or by attribution, 10% or more of the voting power of our outstanding shares. If we are classified as a CFC, a U.S. Shareholder may be subject to U.S. income taxation at ordinary income tax rates on all or a portion of our undistributed earnings and profits attributable to “subpart F income” and may also be subject to tax at ordinary income tax rates on any gain realized on a sale of ordinary shares, to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits attributable to such shares. The CFC rules are complex and U.S. Shareholders of the ordinary shares are urged to consult their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the CFC rules to them in their particular circumstances.. 36. Table of Contents"                                                                                                 
