[1] "ITEM 1A.  Risk Factors. A wide range of factors could materially affect our performance. In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection with the description of these operations and the financial results elsewhere in this report, the following factors, among others, could adversely affect our business, including our results of operations or financial position:. ·Exposure to fluctuations in energy prices. Fluctuations in energy prices, including crude oil and gas prices, could negatively impact the activities of those of our customers involved in extracting, refining or exploring for crude oil and gas, resulting in a corresponding adverse effect on the demand for the products that they purchase from us. Prices for oil and gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of, and demand for, oil and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of other economic factors that are beyond our control. Worldwide economic, political and military events, including war, terrorist activity, events in the Middle East and initiatives by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), have contributed, and are likely to continue to contribute, to price and volume volatility. Such volatility could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial position.. ·Debt and debt service requirements. The amount of our debt from time to time could have important consequences. For example, it could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our ability to fund future capital expenditures, working capital and other general corporate requirements and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business.. ·Borrowing and compliance with covenants under our credit facility. Our credit facility contains affirmative and negative covenants including financial covenants, and default provisions. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreement. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our current credit agreement, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If the lenders were to accelerate the repayment of borrowings, to the extent we have significant outstanding borrowings at said time, we may not have sufficient assets to repay our asset based credit facility and our other indebtedness. Also, should there be an event of default, or a need to obtain waivers following an event of default, we may be subject to higher borrowing costs and/or more restrictive covenants in future periods. Further, the amount available for borrowing under our asset-based revolving loan facility is subject to a borrowing base, which is determined by taking into account, among other things, our accounts receivable, inventory and machinery and equipment. Fluctuations in our borrowing base impact our ability to borrow funds pursuant to the revolving loan facility.. ·Disruption in the global capital and credit markets.   If global economic and financial market conditions deteriorate, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In particular, lower consumer spending may result in reduced demand and orders for certain of our products, order cancellations, lower revenues, increased inventories, and lower gross margins. Further, if our customers experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase our products, this could result in further reduced orders for our products, order cancellations, inability of customers to timely meet their payment obligations to us, extended payment terms, higher accounts receivable, reduced cash flows, greater expense associated with collection efforts and increased bad debt expense; and a severe financial difficulty experienced by our customers may cause them to become insolvent or cease business operations.. ·The strength of the retail economy in the United States and abroad.   Our business is subject to economic conditions in major markets in which we operate, including recession, inflation, deflation, general weakness in retail and industrial markets,  as well as the exposure to liabilities under anti-corruption laws in various countries, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, currency instability, transportation delays or interruptions, sovereign debt uncertainties and difficulties in enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights, as well as natural disasters.  The strength of such markets is a function of many factors beyond our control, including interest rates, employment levels, availability of credit and consumer confidence.. 6. ·Risks associated with sourcing from overseas. We import finished goods and component parts. Any difficulty or inability on the part of manufacturers of our products or other participants in our supply chain in obtaining sufficient financing to purchase raw materials or to finance general working capital needs, or their inability to obtain raw materials due to shortages or other factors, may result in delays or non-delivery of shipments of our products. Additionally, material increases in raw material commodity prices could further adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Our foreign suppliers may encounter interruption in their ability to continue to provide us with products on a short-term or long-term basis. Although we believe that there are redundant sources available and maintain multiple sources for most of our products, there may be costs and delays associated with securing such sources and there can be no assurance that such sources would provide the same quality of product at similar prices. Further, substantially all of our import operations are subject to customs’ requirements and to tariffs and quotas set by governments through mutual agreements, bilateral actions or, in some cases unilateral action. The countries in which our products and materials are manufactured or imported from, may from, time to time impose additional quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions on its imports or adversely modify existing restrictions. Furthermore, imported products and materials may be subject to future tariffs or other trade measures in the U.S. Adverse changes in these import costs and restrictions, or our suppliers’ failure to comply with customs regulations or similar laws could harm our business.. Our ability to import products in a timely and cost-effective manner may also be affected by conditions at ports or issues that otherwise affect transportation and warehousing providers, such as port and shipping capacity, labor disputes, severe weather or increased homeland security requirements in the U.S. and other countries. These issues could delay importation of products or require us to locate alternative ports or warehousing providers to avoid disruption to customers. These alternatives may not be available on short notice or could result in higher transit costs, which could have an adverse impact on our business and financial condition.. ·Customer concentration.   We have several key customers, one of which accounted for approximately 27.1% of our 2017 consolidated revenue and 31.0% of our consolidated accounts receivable. Loss of key customers or a material negative change in our relationships with our key customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial position.. ·Adverse changes in currency exchange rates   A majority of our products are manufactured outside the United States, a portion of which are purchased in the local currency. As a result, we are exposed to movements in the exchange rates of various currencies against the United States dollar which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. We believe our most significant foreign currency exposures are the Taiwan dollar (“TWD”) and the Chinese Renminbi (“RMB”). Purchases from Chinese sources are made in U.S. dollars (“USD”). However, if the RMB were to be revalued against the dollar, there could be a significant negative impact on the cost of our products. Further, the reporting currency for our consolidated financial statements is the USD. Certain of the company’s assets, liabilities, expenses and revenues are denominated in currencies other than the USD. In preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements, those assets, liabilities, expenses and revenues are translated into USD at applicable exchange rates. Increases or decreases in exchange rates between the USD and other currencies affect the USD value of those items, as reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Substantial fluctuations in the value of the USD could have a significant impact on the company’s financial condition and results of operations.. ·Impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill.   The inability to generate future cash flows sufficient to support the recorded amounts of goodwill, other intangible assets and other long-lived assets could result in future impairment charges.. ·Unforeseen inventory adjustments or changes in purchasing patterns.   We make purchasing decisions based upon a number of factors including an assessment of market needs and preferences, manufacturing lead times and cash flow considerations. To the extent that our assumptions result in inventory levels being too high or too low, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial position.. ·Market acceptance of products.   There can be no assurance that the market continues its acceptance of the products we introduced in recent years or will accept new products (including the introduction of products into new geographic markets) introduced or scheduled for introduction in 2018. There can also be no assurance that the level of sales generated from these new products or geographic markets relative to our expectations will materialize.. ·Competition.   The markets in which we sell our products are highly competitive on the basis of price, quality, availability, post-sale service and brand-name awareness. A number of competing companies are well-established manufacturers that compete on a global basis.. ·Price reductions.   Price reductions taken by us in response to customer and competitive pressures, as well as price reductions or promotional actions taken in order to drive demand, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial position.. ·Interest rates.   Interest rate fluctuations and other capital market conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial position.. 7. ·Litigation and insurance.   The effects of litigation and product liability exposure, as well as other risks and uncertainties described from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and our public announcements could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial position. Further, while we maintain insurance policies to protect against most potential exposures, events may arise against which we may not be adequately insured.. ·Retention of key personnel.   Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our key personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial position.. ·Acquisition of businesses.   Part of our business strategy is to opportunistically acquire complementary businesses, which involve risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These risks include:. ·Loss or significant decline in the revenue of customers of the acquired businesses;. ·Inability to integrate successfully the acquired businesses’ operations;. ·Inability to coordinate management and integrate and retain employees of the acquired businesses;. ·Difficulties in implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems;. ·Failure to realize anticipated synergies, economies of scale or other anticipated benefits, or to maintain operating margins;. ·Strain on our personnel, systems and resources, and diversion of attention from other priorities;. ·Incurrence of additional debt and related interest expense;. ·Unforeseen or contingent liabilities of the acquired businesses; and. ·Large write-offs or write-downs, or the impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets.. ·Regulatory environment.   We cannot anticipate the impact of changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements, including tax rate changes, new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations, and environmental laws, in both domestic and foreign jurisdictions. Increased legislative and regulatory activity and burdens, and a more stringent manner in which they are applied, could significantly impact our business and the economy as a whole.. ·The threat of terrorism and related political instability and economic uncertainty.   The threat of potential terrorist attacks on the United States and throughout the world and political instability has created an atmosphere of economic uncertainty in the United States and in foreign markets. Our results may be impacted by the macroeconomic effects of those events. Also, a disruption in our supply chain as a result of terrorist attacks or the threat thereof may significantly affect our business and its prospects. In addition, such events may also result in heightened domestic security and higher costs for importing and exporting shipments of components and finished goods. Any of these occurrences may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flow or results in any reporting period.. ·Business disruptions or other costs associated with information technology, cyber-attacks, system implementations, data privacy, or catastrophic losses. We rely heavily on computer systems to manage and operate our businesses, and record and process transactions. Computer systems are important to production planning, customer service and order fulfillment among other business-critical processes. Consistent and efficient operation of the computer hardware and software systems is imperative to the successful sales and earnings performance. Despite efforts to prevent such situations, and loss control and risk management practices that partially mitigate these risks, our systems may be affected by damage or interruption from, among other causes, fire, natural disasters, power outages, system failures or computer viruses. Computer hardware and storage equipment that is integral to efficient operations, such as e-mail, telephone and other functionality, is concentrated in certain physical locations in which we operate. Additionally, we rely on software applications and enterprise cloud storage systems and cloud computing services provided by third-party vendors, and our business may be adversely affected by service disruptions or security breaches in such third-party systems. Security threats and sophisticated computer crime pose a potential risk to the security of our information technology systems, cloud storage systems, networks, services and assets, as well as the confidentiality and integrity of some of our customers' data. If we suffer a loss or disclosure of business or stakeholder information due to security breaches, including as a result of human error and technological failures, and business continuity plans do not effectively address these issues on a timely basis, we may suffer interruptions in our ability to manage operations as well as reputational, competitive or business harm, which may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.. ·Unforeseen events.   We cannot anticipate the impact of unforeseen events, including but not limited to war and pandemic disease, on economic conditions and consumer confidence in our business.. The risk factors described above are not intended to be all-inclusive. There can be no assurance that we have correctly identified and appropriately assessed all factors affecting our business or that the publicly available and other information with respect to these matters is complete and correct. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial also may adversely impact us. Should any risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial position.. 8"
