[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS.. The following are significant risks which could have a material negative impact on the Company's financial condition or results of operations.. Business and Industry Risks. Commercial Truck Market Demand is Variable.  The Company's business is highly sensitive to global and national economic conditions as well as economic conditions in the industries and markets it serves. Negative economic conditions and outlook can materially weaken demand for the Company's equipment and services.  The yearly demand for commercial vehicles may increase or decrease more than overall gross domestic product in markets the Company serves, which are principally North America and Europe.  Demand for commercial vehicles may also be affected by the introduction of new vehicles and technologies by the Company or its competitors.. Competition and Prices.  The Company operates in a highly competitive environment, which could adversely affect the Company's sales and pricing.  Financial results depend largely on the ability to develop, manufacture and market competitive products that profitably meet customer demand.. Production Costs and Supplier Capacity.  The Company's products are exposed to variability in material and commodity costs.  Commodity or component price increases and significant shortages of component products may adversely impact the Company's financial results or use of its production capacity.  Many of the Company's suppliers also supply automotive manufacturers, and factors that adversely affect the automotive industry can also have adverse effects on these suppliers and the Company.  Supplier delivery performance can be adversely affected if increased demand for these suppliers' products exceeds their production capacity.  Unexpected events, including natural disasters, may increase the Company's cost of doing business or disrupt the Company's or its suppliers' operations.. Liquidity Risks, Credit Ratings and Costs of Funds.  Disruptions or volatility in global financial markets could limit the Company's sources of liquidity, or the liquidity of customers, dealers and suppliers.  A lowering of the Company's credit ratings could increase the cost of borrowing and adversely affect access to capital markets.  The Company's Financial Services segment obtains funds for its operations from commercial paper, medium-term notes and bank debt.  If the markets for commercial paper, medium-term notes and bank debt do not provide the necessary liquidity in the future, the Financial Services segment may experience increased costs or may have to limit its financing of retail and wholesale assets.  This could result in a reduction of the number of vehicles the Company is able to produce and sell to customers.. The Financial Services Industry is Highly Competitive.  The Company's Financial Services segment competes with banks, other commercial finance companies and financial services firms which may have lower costs of borrowing, higher leverage or market share goals that result in a willingness to offer lower interest rates, which may lead to decreased margins, lower market share or both.  A decline in the Company's truck unit sales and a decrease in truck residual values due to lower used truck pricing are also factors which may affect the Company's Financial Services segment.. The Financial Services Segment is Subject to Credit Risk.  The Financial Services segment is exposed to the risk of loss arising from the failure of a customer, dealer or counterparty to meet the terms of the loans, leases and derivative contracts with the Company.  Although the financial assets of the Financial Services segment are secured by underlying equipment collateral, in the event a customer cannot meet its obligations to the Company, there is a risk that the value of the underlying collateral will not be sufficient to recover the amounts owed to the Company, resulting in credit losses.. Interest-Rate Risks.  The Financial Services segment is subject to interest-rate risks, because increases in interest rates can reduce demand for its products, increase borrowing costs and potentially reduce interest margins.  PFS uses derivative contracts to match the interest rate characteristics of its debt to the interest rate characteristics of its finance receivables in order to mitigate the risk of changing interest rates.. 7. Information Technology.  The Company relies on information technology systems, including the internet and other computer systems, which may be subject to disruptions during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components; power outages; hardware failures; computer viruses; or outside parties attempting to disrupt the Company's business or gain unauthorized access to the Company's electronic data.  The Company maintains protections to guard against such events.  If the Company's computer systems were to be damaged, disrupted or breached, it could result in a negative impact on the Company's operating results and could also cause reputational damage, business disruption or the disclosure of confidential data.. Political, Regulatory and Economic Risks. Multinational Operations.  The Company's global operations are exposed to political, economic and other risks and events beyond its control in the countries in which the Company operates. The Company may be adversely affected by political instabilities, fuel shortages or interruptions in utility or transportation systems, natural calamities, wars, terrorism and labor strikes.  Changes in government monetary or fiscal policies and international trade policies may impact demand for the Company's products, financial results and competitive position. PACCAR's global operations are subject to extensive trade, competition and anti-corruption laws and regulations that could impose significant compliance costs.. Environmental Regulations.  The Company's operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations that impose significant compliance costs. The Company could experience higher research and development and manufacturing costs due to changes in government requirements for its products, including changes in emissions, fuel, greenhouse gas or other regulations.. Litigation, Product Liability and Regulatory. The Company's products are subject to recall for environmental, performance and safety-related issues.  Product recalls, lawsuits, regulatory actions or increases in the reserves the Company establishes for contingencies may increase the Company's costs and lower profits. Due to the international nature of the Company's business, some products are also subject to international trade regulations, including customs and import / export related laws and regulations, government embargoes and sanctions prohibiting sales to specific persons or countries, as well as anticorruption laws. The Company's reputation and its brand names are valuable assets, and claims or regulatory actions, even if unsuccessful or without merit, could adversely affect the Company's reputation and brand images because of adverse publicity.. Currency Exchange and Translation.  The Company's consolidated financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, while significant operations are denominated in the currencies of other countries.  Currency exchange rate fluctuations can affect the Company's assets, liabilities and results of operations through both translation and transaction risk, as reported in the Company's financial statements.  The Company uses certain derivative financial instruments and localized production of its products to reduce, but not eliminate, the effects of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.. Accounting Estimates.  In the preparation of the Company's financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, management uses estimates and makes judgments and assumptions that affect asset and liability values and the amounts reported as income and expense during the periods presented. Certain of these estimates, judgments and assumptions, such as residual values on operating leases, the allowance for credit losses, warranty and the provision for income taxes, are particularly sensitive.  If actual results are different from estimates used by management, they may have a material impact on the financial statements.  For additional disclosures regarding accounting estimates, see \"Critical Accounting Policies\" under Item 7 of this Form 10-K.. Taxes.  Changes in statutory income tax rates in the countries in which the Company operates impact the Company's effective tax rate.  Changes to other taxes or the adoption of other new tax legislation could affect the Company's provision for income taxes and related tax assets and liabilities."
