[1] "ITEM 1A.     RISK FACTORS. Our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could cause our financial condition or operating results in the future to differ significantly from our expected financial condition or operating results that are set forth in the forward looking statements contained in this Report. The risks discussed below are not the only. 16. ones facing our business but do represent those risks that we believe are material to us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also harm our business.. Our business may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally.. Our business, earnings and profitability are affected by the financial markets and economic conditions in the United States generally and, more specifically, in Southern California where a substantial portion of our business is generated, including factors such as the level and volatility of short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, home prices, unemployment and under-employment levels, bankruptcies, household income, consumer spending, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, liquidity of the global financial markets, the availability and cost of capital and credit, investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets and the sustainability of economic growth both in the United States and globally. The deterioration of any of these conditions could adversely affect the financial performance and/or condition of our borrowers, the demand for credit and other banking products, the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal on outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, which could lead to decreased loan utilization rates, increased delinquencies and defaults and changes to our customers' ability to meet certain credit obligations.  If any of these events occur, we could experience one or more of the following adverse effects on our business:. • a decline in the demand for loans, which would cause a decline in interest income and our net interest margin;. • a decline in the value of our loans or other assets secured by residential or commercial real estate or by trading assets of our borrowers;. • a decrease in deposit balances due to overall reductions in the accounts of customers, which would adversely impact our liquidity position;. • an impairment of our investment securities and other real estate owned (\"OREO\"); and. • an increase in the volume of loans that become delinquent or the number of borrowers that file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their home loans or commercial loan obligations to us, either of which could result in a higher level of non-performing assets and cause us to increase our allowance for loan and lease losses (\"ALLL\"), thereby reducing our earnings.. In addition, because the substantial majority of our customers and the assets securing a large proportion of our loans are located in Southern California, any regional or local economic downturn that affects Southern California, including the financial condition of our existing or prospective borrowers or property values in Southern California, may affect us and our profitability more significantly and more adversely than our competitors whose operations are less geographically focused.. We could incur losses on the loans we make and underwriting practices may not protect us against losses in our loan portfolio.. Loan defaults and the incurrence of losses on the loans we make are an inherent risk of the banking business. That risk previously had been exacerbated by a significant slowdown in the housing markets and significant increases in real estate loan foreclosures in Los Angeles, Orange, Riverside, San Bernardino and San Diego counties of California where most of our customers are based. This slowdown was attributable to declining real estate prices, excess inventories of unsold homes, high vacancy rates at commercial properties and increases in unemployment and a resulting loss of confidence about the future among businesses and consumers that had combined to adversely affect business and consumer spending. These conditions led to increases in our non-performing assets in prior periods, which required us to record loan charge-offs and write-downs in the carrying values of real properties that we acquired by or in lieu of foreclosure and caused us to incur losses in those periods. While conditions in the housing markets have improved, including increased real estate prices, lower vacancy rates at commercial properties and continued improvement in unemployment, future weakness in economic conditions could result in additional loan charge-offs and asset write-downs that would require us to increase the provisions we make for loan losses and losses on real estate owned that could have a material adverse effect on our future operating results, financial condition and capital.. In addition, we seek to mitigate the risks inherent in our loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices, including: analyzing a borrower's credit history, financial statements, tax returns and cash flow projections; valuing collateral based on reports of independent appraisers; and verifying liquid assets. Although we believe that our underwriting criteria are, and historically have been, appropriate for the various kinds of loans we make, we have incurred losses on loans that have met these criteria, and may continue to experience higher than expected losses depending on economic factors and consumer behavior. In addition, our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future behaviors.. A portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, and events that negatively impact the real estate market could adversely affect asset quality and profitability for our loans secured by real property.. Many of the loans in our portfolio are secured by real estate. For instance, the majority of our commercial real estate loans, which represented 41.6% of our total loans outstanding as of December 31, 2017, are secured by first trust deeds on. 17. nonresidential real property. Payments on these loans depend to a large degree on the rental income stream from the properties and the global cash flows of the borrowers. A downturn in the economy, generally, or in the real estate market where the collateral for a real estate loan is located, specifically, could negatively affect the borrower's ability to repay the loan and the value of the collateral securing the loan, which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our profitability and asset quality. In addition, unexpected decreases in commercial real estate prices coupled with slow economic growth and elevated levels of unemployment could drive losses beyond that provided for in our ALLL, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. We may be required to increase our ALLL which would adversely affect our financial performance in the future.. On a quarterly basis we evaluate and conduct an analysis to determine the probable and estimable losses inherent in our loan portfolio.  However, this evaluation requires us to make a number of estimates and judgments regarding the financial condition and creditworthiness of a significant number of our borrowers, the sufficiency of the collateral securing our loans, including the fair value of the properties collateralizing our outstanding loans, which may depreciate over time, be difficult to appraise and fluctuate in value, and economic trends that could affect the ability of borrowers to meet their payment obligations to us. Based on those estimates and judgments, we make determinations, which are necessarily subjective, with respect to (i) the adequacy of our ALLL to provide for write-downs in the carrying values and charge-offs of loans that may be required in the future and (ii) the need to increase the ALLL by means of a charge to income (commonly referred to as the provision for loan and lease losses). If those estimates or judgments prove to have been incorrect due to circumstances outside our control, the ineffectiveness of our credit administration or for other reasons or the Bank's regulators come to a different conclusion regarding the adequacy of the Bank's ALLL, we could have to increase the provisions we make for loan losses, which could reduce our income or could cause us to incur operating losses in the future. Moreover, additions to the allowance may be necessary based on changes in economic and real estate market conditions, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control. These additions may require increased provision expense, which could negatively impact our results of operations.. Our underwriting practices may not protect us against losses in our loan portfolio.. We maintain a comprehensive credit policy that includes specific underwriting guidelines as well as standards for loan origination and reporting and portfolio management.  Our underwriting guidelines outline specific standards and risk management criteria for each lending product offered. We seek to mitigate the risks inherent in our loan portfolio by adhering to these specific underwriting guidelines. Although we believe that our underwriting criteria are, and historically have been, appropriate for the various kinds of loans we make, we have incurred losses on loans that have met these criteria, and may continue to experience higher than expected losses depending on economic factors and consumer behavior.  Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future behaviors. Further, we may have higher credit risk, or experience higher credit losses, to the extent our loans are concentrated by loan type, industry segment, borrower type, or location of the borrower or collateral.. Current loan concentrations or strategic and tactical changes in loan types, geographic locations and loan concentrations may expose us to increased risks.. From 2008 to present, in light of the industry-wide real estate loan losses prevalent in our markets, and in order to transition from a transaction based approach to a long-term relationship based approach, the bank strategically exited the residential mortgage business and purposely increased non-real estate lending activity such as commercial and industrial and asset-based lending.  Since 2008, our real estate loans as a percentage of the overall portfolio have generally declined. At the same time, the commercial and industrial and asset-based loans as a percentage of the entire loan portfolio have generally increased.  Relative to other banks in our market, we may at any given time have loan concentrations in real estate, commercial and industrial or asset-based, that are higher or lower than other banks with which we compete.  Since commercial and industrial and asset-based business loans generally have shorter term durations and variable rates, we believe this positions us well in a rising interest rate environment, reduces real estate risk exposures and better positions us for future profits.   However, this current strategy and any subsequent periodic changes in strategic or tactical direction that affects our loan portfolio mix, loan types, geographic locations and concentrations could also have the effect of increasing our overall risk exposure.  To manage these risks, we continuously monitor our loan concentration risk exposures relative to expenses, anticipated returns, forecast and actual losses and competitive outlook, and this proactive risk management could result in us temporarily or permanently changing/updating our strategy, tactics, loan types, geographic locations and concentrations, including possible changes implemented without or prior to public disclosure.. Our focus on lending to small to mid-sized  businesses  and professional firms may increase our credit risk.. Most of our commercial business and commercial real estate loans are made to small or midsize businesses and professional firms. These businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities and. 18. have a heightened vulnerability to economic conditions. If general economic conditions in the markets in which we operate negatively impact this important customer sector, our results of operations and financial condition and the value of our common stock may be adversely affected. Moreover, a portion of these loans have been made by us in recent years following our transition to a commercial banking model and the borrowers may not have experienced a complete business or economic cycle. Furthermore, the deterioration of our borrowers' businesses may hinder their ability to repay their loans with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Liquidity risk could adversely affect our ability to fund operations and hurt our financial condition.. Liquidity is essential to our business, as we use cash to fund loans, investments, other interest-earning assets, and deposit withdrawals that occur in the ordinary course of our business. Our principal sources of liquidity include deposits, FHLB borrowings, sales of loans or investment securities held for sale, repayments to the Bank of loans it makes to borrowers and sales of equity securities by us. If our ability to obtain funds from these sources becomes limited or the costs to us of those funds increases, whether due to factors that affect us specifically, including our financial performance or the imposition of regulatory restrictions on us, or due to factors that affect the financial services industry generally, including weakening economic conditions or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole, then, our ability to grow our banking business would be adversely affected and our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed.. We have a significant deferred tax asset that may or may not be fully realized.. We have a significant deferred tax asset. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are the expected future tax amounts for the temporary differences between the carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities computed using enacted tax rates. We periodically assess available positive and negative evidence to determine whether it is more likely than not that our net deferred tax asset will be realized. Realization of a deferred tax asset requires us to apply significant judgment and is inherently speculative because it requires estimates that cannot be made with certainty. We have determined that it is more likely than not that we will not be able to utilize our deferred tax asset to offset or reduce future taxes, and, as a result, we previously established a full valuation allowance on our deferred tax asset. This determination required us to incur a charge to operations in the period in which we established or increased the valuation allowance. If, in the future, we conclude that it is more-likely-than-not that all or a portion of our deferred tax asset would be realized, we are required to reverse the valuation allowance against that portion of our deferred tax asset. We cannot assure you whether or when we will be able to conclude that it is more likely, than not, that we will be able to utilize our deferred tax asset prior to expiration, allowing us to reverse all or a portion of our valuation allowance. If, in the future, we are able to conclude that it is more likely, than not, that we will be able to utilize our deferred tax asset, any future determination that a valuation allowance is again necessary will require us to incur a charge to operations that could have, a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and regulatory capital condition. In addition, certain of our deferred tax assets, including our tax credit carryforwards and net operating loss carryforwards, are subject to expiration if we are unable to utilize them during their respective terms. We cannot assure you that we will be able to fully realize our deferred tax asset.. Changes in tax laws and regulations could affect our future taxable income.. A change in tax laws or regulations, or their interpretation, could materially affect us if we generate taxable income in a future period. For example, on December 22, 2017, the United States enacted H.R.1., known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"2017 Tax Act\"). The legislation significantly changes U.S. tax law by, among other things, reducing the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, implementing a territorial tax system and imposing a repatriation tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. As a result of the 2017 Tax Act, we recorded a decrease related to our deferred tax assets and liabilities of $5.8 million with a corresponding adjustment to our valuation allowance as of December 31, 2017. We currently do not expect the 2017 Tax Act to have a material impact on our financial statements.  However, we are still in the process of evaluating the new law and do not know the full effect it will have on our business, including our financial statements.  The 2017 Tax Act is unclear in many respects and could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, as well as interpretations and implementing regulations by the U.S. Treasury Department and IRS, any of which could lessen or increase the impact of the 2017 Tax Act on our business and financial statements. In addition, it is unclear how these U.S. federal income tax changes will affect state and local taxation, which often uses federal taxable income as a starting point for computing state and local tax liabilities.. We face intense competition from other banks, financial institutions and non-banking institutions that could hurt our business.. We conduct our business operations in Southern California, where the banking business is highly competitive and is dominated by large multi-state and in-state banks with operations and offices covering wide geographic areas. We also compete with other financial service businesses, mutual fund companies, and securities brokerage and investment banking firms that offer competitive banking and financial products and services, including online and mobile banking services, as well as products and. 19. services that we do not offer. The larger banks and many of those other financial institutions have greater financial and other resources than we do, which enables them to conduct extensive advertising campaigns and to allocate resources to regions or activities of greater potential profitability. They also have substantially more capital and higher lending limits than we do, which enable them to attract larger customers and offer financial products and services that we are unable to offer, putting us at a disadvantage in competing with them for loans and deposits. Increased competition may prevent us from (i) achieving increases, or could even result in decreases, in our loan volume or deposit balances, or (ii) increasing interest rates on the loans we make or reducing the interest rates we pay to attract or retain deposits, either or both of which could cause a decline in our interest income or an increase in our interest expense and, therefore, lead to reductions in our net interest income and earnings.  In addition, technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions, which historically have involved banks, through alternative methods. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts or mutual funds. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits, which could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. A higher risk of severe weather and natural disasters in Southern California could disproportionately harm our business.. Historically, California, in which a substantial portion of our business is located, has been susceptible to natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods, droughts and wild fires. The nature and level of natural disasters cannot be predicted and may be exacerbated by global climate change.  In the event of a major natural disaster, many of our borrowers may suffer uninsured property damage, experience interruption of their businesses or lose their jobs, which may negatively impact the ability of these borrowers to make deposits with us or repay their loans or negatively impact the values of collateral securing our loans, any of which could result in losses and increased provisions for credit losses.  Additionally, the occurrence of natural disasters could harm our operations through interference with communications, including the interruption or loss of our computer systems, which could prevent or impede us from gathering deposits, originating loans and processing and controlling our business flow, as well as through the destruction of facilities and our operational, financial and management information systems. Although we have established disaster recovery plans and procedures, and we monitor the effects of any such events on our loans, properties and investments, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on us or our financial condition and results of operations.. Our business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance.. A substantial portion of our income is derived from the differential or \"spread\" between the interest we earn on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and the interest we pay on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Due to the differences in the maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our interest rate spread and, in turn, our profitability. In addition, as a general rule, loan origination volumes are affected by market interest rates. Rising interest rates, generally, are associated with a lower volume of loan originations while lower interest rates are usually associated with higher loan originations. Conversely, in rising interest rate environments, loan repayment rates may decline and in falling interest rate environments, loan repayment rates may increase. Also, in a rising interest rate environment, we may accelerate the pace of rate increases on our deposit accounts as compared to the pace of increases in short-term market rates. Accordingly, changes in market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality and loan origination volume.. We have adopted an interest rate risk management strategy for the purpose of protecting us against interest rate changes. Developing an effective interest rate risk management strategy, however, is complex, and no risk management strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with interest rate changes.. Government regulations may impair our operations, restrict our growth or increase our operating costs.. We are subject to extensive supervision, examination, and regulation by federal and state bank regulatory agencies, including the FRB and the FRBSF, and the CDBO. The primary objective of these agencies is to protect bank depositors and other customers and consumers, and not shareholders, whose respective interests often differ. Congress and these federal and state regulators continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, or policies, could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways. If, as a result of an examination, the CDBO or the Federal Reserve should determine that the financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity, or other aspects of the Bank's operations are unsatisfactory or that the Bank or its management is violating or has violated any law or regulation, the CDBO and the Federal Reserve, and separately the FDIC as insurer of the Bank's deposits, have residual authority to, among other things, require affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice and to impose restrictions. 20. that they believe are needed to protect depositors and customers of banking organizations.  We have agreed to and have submitted to the FRB and the CDBO for review and approval a plan to maintain sufficient capital at the Bank and an appropriate allowance for loan and lease losses, a two-year strategic plan covering 2017 and 2018 and budget to restore the Bank's profitability, and a plan with acceptable written lending and collection policies to ensure adequate control of credit risk and lending functions; we have received approval of these plans as submitted and have agreed to submit an approved budget for subsequent calendar years.  In addition, among other things, we have agreed that we will not, without the FRB and the CDBO's prior written approval, (i) receive any dividends or any other form of payment or distribution from the Bank, or (ii) declare or pay any dividends, make any payments on trust preferred securities, or make any other capital distributions. We further agreed to notify the FRB and the CDBO prior to effecting certain changes to our senior executive officers and Board of Directors. These restrictions could adversely affect our ability to expand our business, result in increases in our costs of doing business or hinder our ability to compete with less regulated financial services companies.  In addition, due to the complex and technical nature of many of the government regulations to which banking organizations are subject, inadvertent violations of those regulations may and sometimes do occur. In such an event, we would be required to correct or implement measures to prevent a recurrence of such violations.  If more serious violations were to occur, the regulatory agencies could limit our activities or growth, impose fines on us, or ultimately require us to cease operations in the event we were to encounter severe liquidity problems or a significant erosion of our capital below the minimum amounts required under applicable bank regulatory guidelines or if we engage in unsafe or unsound practices that could lead to termination of our deposit insurance or banking charter.. The Dodd-Frank Act poses uncertainties for our business and has increased, and is likely to continue to increase, our costs of doing business.. The 2010 Dodd-Frank Act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the United States, established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the \"CFPB\") and requires the CFPB and other federal agencies to implement many new and significant rules and regulations. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act were made effective immediately. However, much of the Dodd-Frank Act is subject to further rulemaking and/or studies and the Trump Administration may ultimately roll back or modify certain of the regulations adopted under the Dodd-Frank Act. As a result, the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act poses uncertainties for our business and has increased, and is likely to continue to increase, our costs of doing business. However, due to uncertainties concerning the timing and extent of future rulemaking, it is difficult to assess the extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act, or the resulting rules and regulations, will further impact our business and financial performance. Compliance with these new laws and regulations will result in additional costs, which could be significant, and may have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act permits states to adopt consumer protection laws and standards that are more stringent than those adopted at the federal level. We cannot predict whether California state agencies will adopt consumer protection laws and standards that are more stringent than those adopted at the federal level or, if any are adopted, what impact they may have on us, our business or our results of operations.. We face a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the Bank Secrecy Act, other anti - money laundering and anti - bribery statutes and regulations, and U.S. economic and trade sanctions.. The Bank Secrecy Act, the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, and other laws and regulations require financial institutions to, among other things, institute and maintain an effective anti - money laundering program and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. The federal Financial Crimes Enforcement Network is authorized to impose significant civil monetary penalties for violations of those requirements and has engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with state and federal banking regulators, as well as the U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration, and Internal Revenue Service. We also must comply with U.S. economic and trade sanctions administered by the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and we, like other financial institutions, are subject to increased scrutiny for compliance with these requirements. We maintain policies, procedures and systems designed to detect and deter prohibited financing activities.  If these controls were deemed deficient, we could be subject to liability, including civil fines and regulatory actions, which may include restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan. In addition, any failure to effectively maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could have serious reputational consequences for us. Any of these results could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Potential changes in U.S. accounting standards may adversely affect our financial statements.. We prepare our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (\"GAAP\"). From time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board. It is possible that future accounting standards that we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes. 21. could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For information regarding new accounting pronouncements and the impact, if any, on our financial position or results of operations, see Note 2 to the Notes to the consolidated financial statements in this Report.. Premiums for federal deposit insurance may increase in the future.. The Dodd-Frank Act broadens the base for FDIC insurance assessments. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC-insured financial institutions, including the Bank. The FDIC charges insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the DIF at a specific level. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act increased the minimum target DIF ratio from 1.15% of estimated insured deposits to 1.35% of estimated insured deposits and the FDIC must seek to achieve the 1.35% ratio by September 30, 2020. The FDIC has issued regulations to implement these provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, and although it recently reduced deposit insurance premiums for the overwhelming majority of banks whose assets are less than $10 billion, it has, in addition, established a higher reserve ratio of 2% as a long-term goal beyond what is required by statute, although there is no implementation deadline for the 2% ratio. The FDIC may increase the assessment rates or impose additional special assessments in the future to keep the DIF at the statutory target level. The Bank's FDIC insurance premiums increased substantially beginning in 2009, and have returned to more normal levels with the improved condition of the Bank. Any increase in our FDIC premiums could have a material adverse effect on the Bank's financial condition and results of operations.. The loss of key personnel could hurt our financial performance.. Competition for qualified employees and personnel in the banking industry is intense and there are a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of, and experience in, the communities that we serve.  The process of recruiting personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategies is often lengthy. Our success depends to a great extent on the continued availability of our existing management and, in particular, on Thomas M. Vertin our President and Chief Executive Officer, Curt A. Christianssen our Chief Financial Officer, Thomas J. Inserra our Chief Risk Officer, and Robert Anderson our Chief Banking Officer. In addition to their skills and experience as bankers, our executive officers have extensive community ties upon which our competitive strategy is partially based. As a result, the loss of the services of any of these officers could harm our ability to implement our business strategy or our future operating results. We have committed to retain management and directors acceptable to the FRB and the CDBO and to seek approval before making any changes to our key personnel or directors. No assurance can be given that we will be able to retain our current management or directors and if we are not able to retain them that we will be able to recruit and employ management or directors who are acceptable to the CDBO or the FRB. If we are unable to retain such management or directors, we may be subject to supervisory action that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and the value of our common stock.. We rely on communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology from third-party service providers, and we may suffer an interruption in those systems.. We rely heavily on third-party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating, and financial control systems technology, including our online banking services and data processing systems. Any failure or interruption, or breaches in security, of these systems could result in failures or interruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, servicing and/or loan origination systems and, therefore, could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, interruptions in service and security breaches could lead existing customers to terminate their banking relationships with us and could make it more difficult for us to attract new banking customers.. A breach in the security of our systems could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and create significant financial and legal exposure to us.. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business.  Although we devote significant resources to maintain and regularly upgrade our systems and processes that are designed to protect the security of our computer systems, software, networks and other technology assets and the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information belonging to us and our customers, there is no assurance that all of our security measures will provide absolute security. Information security risks for financial institutions have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, foreign governments, terrorists or other external parties. Those parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or that of our customers. For example, other financial services institutions and companies engaged in data processing have reported breaches in the security of their websites or other systems, some of which have involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information, destroy data, disrupt or degrade service, sabotage systems or cause other damage, often through the introduction of computer viruses, malware, worms, cyberattacks, phishing attacks, and other means.. 22. Despite our efforts to ensure the integrity of our systems, it is possible that we may not be able to anticipate or to implement effective preventive measures against all security breaches of these types, especially because the techniques used change frequently or are not recognized until launched. These risks may increase in the future as we continue to increase our internet-based product offerings and expand our internal usage of web-based products and applications. A successful penetration or circumvention of the security of our systems could cause serious negative consequences for us, including significant disruption of our operations, misappropriation of our confidential information or that of our customers, or damage to our computers or systems and those of our customers and counterparties, and could result in violations of applicable privacy and other laws, financial loss to us or our customers, loss of confidence in our security measures, customer dissatisfaction, significant litigation exposure, and harm to our reputation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on us.. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to real properties which we may acquire.. If borrowers are unable to meet their loan repayment obligations, we will initiate foreclosure proceedings with respect to, and may take actions to acquire title to the personal and real property that collateralized their loans. As an owner of such properties, we could become subject to environmental liabilities and incur substantial costs for any property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up that may be required due to any environmental contamination that may be found to exist at any of those properties, even though we did not engage in the activities that led to such contamination. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties seeking damages for environmental contamination emanating from the site. If we were to become subject to significant environmental liabilities or costs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected.. Managing reputational risk is important to attracting and maintaining customers, investors and employees.. Threats to our reputation can come from many sources, including adverse sentiment about financial institutions generally, unethical practices, employee misconduct, failure to deliver minimum standards of service or quality, compliance deficiencies and questionable or fraudulent activities of our customers. We have policies and procedures in place to promote. ethical conduct and protect our reputation. However, these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. Negative publicity regarding our business, employees, or customers, with or without merit, may result in the loss of customers, investors and employees, costly litigation, a decline in revenues and increased governmental regulation.. We may be adversely affected by changes in the actual or perceived soundness or condition of other financial institutions.. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial and financial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial institutions are closely related as a result of trading, investment, liquidity management, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. Loss of public confidence in any one institution, including through default, could lead to liquidity and credit problems, losses, or defaults for other institutions. Even the perceived lack of creditworthiness of, or questions about, a counterparty may lead to market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses, or defaults by various institutions. This systemic risk may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, banks and exchanges we interact with on a daily basis or key funding providers, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our access to liquidity or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. The price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline, which may make it more difficult to realize a profit on your investment in our shares of common stock.. The trading prices of our common stock may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. Our stock price in the future could be adversely affected by other factors including:. • quarterly fluctuations in our operating results or financial condition;. • failure to meet analysts' revenue or earnings estimates;. • the restrictions on our ability to pay cash dividends on our common stock as described below;. • the imposition of additional regulatory restrictions on our business and operations or an inability to meet regulatory requirements;. • an inability to successfully implement our growth strategy;. • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings;. • fluctuations in the stock prices and operating results of our competitors;. • general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for financial services industry stocks;. 23. • proposed or newly adopted legislative or regulatory changes or developments aimed at the financial services industry; and. • any future proceedings or litigation that may involve or affect us.. As a bank holding company that conducts substantially all of our operations through our subsidiaries, including the Bank, our ability to pay dividends, repurchase shares of our common stock or to repay our indebtedness depends upon liquid assets held by the holding company and the results of operations of our subsidiaries.. We are a separate and distinct legal entity from our subsidiaries and we receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends paid to us by the Bank. There are legal limitations on the Bank's ability to extend credit, pay dividends or otherwise supply funds to, or engage in transactions with, us. We have agreed that the Bank will not, without the FRB and the CDBO's prior written approval, pay any dividends to us. Our inability to receive dividends from the Bank could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Various statutory provisions restrict the amount of dividends the Bank can pay to us without regulatory approval. The Bank may not pay cash dividends if that payment could reduce the amount of its capital below that amount which is necessary to meet the \"adequately capitalized\" standard under regulatory capital requirements. It is also possible that, depending upon the financial condition of the Bank and other factors, regulatory authorities could conclude that payment of dividends or other payments, including payments to us, is an unsafe or unsound practice, and as a result, and could impose restrictions on or prohibit such payments. The FRB has issued a policy statement on the payment of cash dividends by bank holding companies, which expresses the FRB's view that a bank holding company should pay cash dividends only to the extent that its net income for the past year is sufficient to cover both the cash dividends and a rate of earnings retention that is consistent with the holding company's capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. We have committed to obtaining approval from the FRB and the CDBO prior to paying any dividends, or making any distributions representing interest, principal or other sums on subordinated debentures or trust preferred securities. There can be no assurance that our regulators will approve such payments or dividends in the future.. Our principal shareholders and management own a significant percentage of our voting shares and are able to exercise significant influence over our business and have the power to block transactions that could benefit our other shareholders.. As of December 31, 2017, Carpenter Community Bancfund, L.P. and Carpenter Community Bancfund-A, L.P. (collectively, the \"Carpenter Funds\") own a total of approximately 31.9% of our outstanding shares of voting stock and together constitute our largest shareholder. Further, pursuant to an agreement we have entered into with the Carpenter Funds, three individuals designated by the Carpenter Funds have been appointed to serve on the respective Boards of Directors of both the Company and the Bank. As a result, the Carpenter Funds have the ability to significantly influence the outcome of matters requiring approval of our Board of Directors and matters requiring the approval of our shareholders. Consequently, the Carpenter Funds have significant influence over our operations and outcome of shareholder votes on the approval of mergers and acquisitions or changes in corporate control which, among other things, could (i) discourage potential acquirers from attempting to acquire the Company, thereby impeding or preventing the consummation of acquisition or change of control transactions in which our shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares, and (ii) make it more difficult for us to sell additional shares at prices in excess of those paid by the Carpenter Funds for their shares of common stock.. If we sell additional shares of our common stock in the future, our shareholders could suffer dilution in their share ownership and voting power.. Subject to market conditions and other factors, we may determine from time to time to issue additional shares of our common stock or pursue other equity financings to meet capital requirements or support the growth of our business. Further issuance of any shares of our common stock and/or preferred stock would dilute the ownership interests of any holders of our common stock at the time of such issuance. In addition, we have issued, and may continue to issue, stock options, warrants, or other stock grants under our equity incentive plan. It is probable that such options will be exercised during their respective terms if the stock price exceeds the exercise price of the particular option, in which case existing shareholders' share ownership and voting power will be diluted.. Certain banking laws and provisions of our articles of incorporation could discourage a third party from making a takeover offer that may be beneficial to our shareholders.. Provisions of federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to our shareholders. The acquisition of 10% or more of any class of voting stock of a bank holding company or depository institution, including shares of our common stock, generally creates a rebuttable presumption that the acquirer \"controls\" the bank holding company or depository institution. Also, a bank holding. 24. company must obtain the prior approval of the FRB before, among other things, acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank, including us.. Additionally, our Board of Directors has the power, under our articles of incorporation, to create and authorize the sale of one or more new series of preferred stock without having to obtain shareholder approval for such action. As a result, the Board could authorize the issuance of and issue shares of a new series of preferred stock to implement a shareholders rights plan (often referred to as a \"poison pill\") or could sell and issue preferred shares with special voting rights or conversion rights that could deter or delay attempts by our shareholders to remove or replace management, and attempts of third parties to engage in proxy contests and effectuate a change in control of us."
