[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Ownership of our common stock involves certain risks. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. You should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially, adversely affected.. Risks Related to Our Business. The economic environment could pose significant challenges for the Company and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Although the U.S. economy continues a gradual expansion following the severe recession that ended in 2009, financial stress on borrowers as a result of an uncertain future economic environment could have an adverse effect on the Company's borrowers and their ability to repay their loans to us, which could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. A weakening of these conditions in the markets in which we operate would likely have an adverse effect on us and others in the financial institutions industry. For example, deterioration in economic conditions in our markets could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in our allowance for loan losses (\"ALLL\"). We may also face the following risks in connection with these events:. • Economic conditions that negatively affect real estate values and the job market may result, in the deterioration of the credit quality of our loan portfolio, and such deterioration in credit quality could have a negative impact on our business.. • A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us.. • A decrease in deposit balances due to overall reductions in the accounts of customers.. • A decrease in the value of our loans or other assets secured by commercial or residential real estate.. • A decrease in net interest income derived from our lending and deposit gathering activities.. • Sustained weakness in our markets may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates on loans and other credit facilities.. • The processes we use to estimate ALLL and reserves may no longer be reliable because they rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation.. • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite its customers become less predictive of future charge-offs.. • We expect to face increased regulation of its industry, and compliance with such regulation may increase our costs, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities and increase compliance challenges.. As these conditions or similar ones exist or worsen, we could experience adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 21. INDEX. Our business is subject to various lending and other economic risks that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.. There was significant disruption and volatility in the financial and capital markets in 2008 and 2009. The financial markets and the financial services industry in particular suffered unprecedented disruption, causing a number of institutions to fail or require government intervention to avoid failure. These conditions were largely the result of the erosion of the U.S. and global credit markets, including a significant and rapid deterioration in the mortgage lending and related real estate markets. While economic conditions have improved, there can be no assurance that the economic conditions that adversely affected the financial services industry, and the capital, credit and real estate markets generally, will not deteriorate in the near or long term, in which case, we could experience losses and write-downs of assets, and could face capital and liquidity constraints or other business challenges. If economic conditions were to deteriorate, particularly within our geographic region, it could result in the following additional consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition:. • Loan delinquencies may increase causing increases in our provision and allowance for loan losses.. • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future charge-offs.. • Collateral for loans, especially real estate, may continue to decline in value, in turn reducing a client's borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our loans held for investment.. • Consumer confidence levels may decline and cause adverse changes in payment patterns, resulting in increased delinquencies and default rates on loans and other credit facilities and decreased demand for our products and services.. • Performance of the underlying loans in mortgage backed securities may deteriorate to potentially cause OTTI markdowns to our investment portfolio.. We may suffer losses in our loan portfolio in excess of our allowance for loan losses.. Our total nonperforming assets amounted to $3.6 million, or 0.04% of our total assets, at December 31, 2017, an increase from $1.6 million or 0.04% at December 31, 2016. We had $1.0 million of net loan charge-offs for 2017, a decrease from $4.8 million in 2016. Our provision for loan losses was $8.6 million in 2017, a decrease from $8.8 million in 2016. If increases in our nonperforming assets occur in the future, our net loan charge-offs and/or provision for loan losses may also increase which may have an adverse effect upon our future results of operations.. We seek to mitigate the risks inherent in our loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. These practices generally include analysis of a borrower's prior credit history, financial statements, tax returns and cash flow projections, valuation of collateral based on reports of independent appraisers and liquid asset verifications. Although we believe that our underwriting criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans we make, we may incur losses on loans that meet our underwriting criteria, and these losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in our ALLL. Our allowance for probable incurred losses is based on analysis of the following:. • Historical experience with our loans;. • Industry historical losses as reported by the FDIC;. • Evaluation of economic conditions;. • Regular reviews of the quality, mix and size of the overall loan portfolio;. • Regular reviews of delinquencies;. • The quality of the collateral underlying our loans; and. • The effect of external factors, such as competition, legal developments and regulatory requirements.. 22. INDEX. Although we maintain an ALLL at a level that we believe is adequate to absorb probable incurred losses inherent in our loan portfolio, changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including a sharp decline in real estate values and changes in interest rates, which are beyond our control, may cause our actual loan losses to exceed our current allowance estimates. If the actual loan losses exceed the amount reserved, it will adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, the Federal Reserve and the DBO, as part of their supervisory function, periodically review our ALLL. Either agency may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or to recognize further loan losses, based on their judgments, which may be different from those of our management. Any increase in the allowance required by them could also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Risks related to specific segments of our loan portfolio may result in losses that could affect our results of operations and financial condition.. General economic conditions and local economic conditions affect our entire loan portfolio. Lending risks vary by the type of loan extended.. In our C&I and SBA lending activities, collectability of loans may be adversely affected by risks generally related to small and middle market businesses, such as:. • Changes or weaknesses in specific industry segments, including weakness affecting the business' customer base;. • Changes in consumer behavior;. • Changes in a business' personnel;. • Increases in supplier costs that cannot be passed along to customers;. • Increases in operating expenses (including energy costs);. • Changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies;. • Increases in interest rates, tax rates; and. In our investor real estate loans, payment performance and the liquidation values of collateral properties may be adversely affected by risks generally incidental to interests in real property, such as:. • Declines in real estate values;. • Declines in rental rates;. • Declines in occupancy rates;. • Increases in other operating expenses (including energy costs);. • The availability of property financing;. • Changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, including rent control ordinances, environmental legislation and taxation;. • Increases in interest rates, real estate and personal property tax rates; and. In our HOA and consumer loans, collectability of the loans may be adversely affected by risks generally related to consumers, such as:. • Changes or weakness in employment and wage income;. • Changes in consumer behavior;. • Declines in real estate values;. • Declines in rental rates;. • Increases in association operating expenses (including energy costs);. • The availability of property financing;. • Changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, including rent control ordinances, environmental legislation and taxation;. • Increases in interest rates, real estate and personal property tax rates; and. 23. INDEX. In our construction loans, collectability and the liquidation values of collateral properties may be adversely affected by risks generally related to consumers (for single family residence construction loans) or incidental to interests in real property (for CRE construction loans), such as:. • Declines in real estate values;. • Declines in rental rates;. • Declines in occupancy rates;. • Increases in other operating expenses (including energy costs);. • The availability of property financing;. • Changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, including rent control ordinances, environmental legislation and taxation;. • Increases in interest rates, real estate and personal property tax rates; and. In our agribusiness and farmland loans, collectability of the loans may be adversely affected by risks generally related to agriculture production and farmlands, such as:. • The cyclical nature of the agriculture industry;. • Fluctuating commodity prices and changing climatic conditions;. • Drought conditions, which adversely impact agricultural customers' operating costs, crop yields and crop quality and could impact such customers' ability to repay loans;. • Increases in operating expenses; and. • Changes in real estate values.. Adverse economic conditions in California may cause us to suffer higher default rates on our loans and reduce the value of the assets we hold as collateral.. Our business activities and credit exposure are concentrated in California. Difficult economic conditions, including state and local government deficits, in California may cause us to incur losses associated with higher default rates and decreased collateral values in our loan portfolio. In addition, demand for our products and services may decline. Declines in the California real estate market could hurt our business, because the vast majority of our loans are secured by real estate located within California. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 61% of our loans secured by real estate were located in California. If real estate values were to decline, especially in California, the collateral for our loans provide less security. As a result, our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate would be diminished, and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans.. Our level of credit risk could increase due to our focus on commercial lending and the concentration on small and middle market business customers with heightened vulnerability to economic conditions.. As of December 31, 2017, our commercial real estate loans amounted to $2.2 billion, or 35.7% of our total loan portfolio, and our commercial business loans amounted to $3.3 billion, or 53.8% of our total loan portfolio. At such date, our largest outstanding commercial business loan was $40.3 million, our largest multiple borrower relationship was $82.8 million and our largest outstanding commercial real estate loan was $31.5 million. Commercial real estate and commercial business loans generally are considered riskier than single-family residential loans because they have larger balances to a single borrower or group of related borrowers. Commercial real estate and commercial business loans involve risks because the borrowers' ability to repay the loans typically depends primarily on the successful operation of the businesses or the properties securing the loans. Most of the Company's commercial business loans are made to small business or middle market customers who may have a heightened vulnerability to economic conditions. Moreover, a portion of these loans have been made or acquired by us in recent years and the borrowers may not have experienced a complete business or economic cycle. Furthermore, the deterioration of our borrowers' businesses may hinder their ability to repay their loans with us, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. 24. INDEX. Nonperforming assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We generally do not record interest income on nonperforming loans or other real estate owned (\"OREO\"), which adversely affects our income. When we take collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related asset to the then fair market value of the collateral, which may ultimately result in a loss. An increase in the level of nonperforming assets increases our risk profile and may impact the capital levels our regulators believe are appropriate in light of the ensuing risk profile. While we reduce problem assets through loan sales, workouts, restructurings and otherwise, decreases in the value of the underlying collateral, or in these borrowers' performance or financial condition, whether or not due to economic and market conditions beyond our control, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires significant commitments of time from management and our directors, which can be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities. There can be no assurance that we will not experience future increases in nonperforming assets.. We may be unable to successfully compete in our industry.. We face direct competition from a significant number of financial institutions, many with a state-wide or regional presence, and in some cases, a national presence, in both originating loans and attracting deposits. Competition in originating loans comes primarily from other banks and finance companies that make loans in our primary market areas. We also face substantial competition in attracting deposits from other banking institutions, money market and mutual funds, credit unions and other investment vehicles. In addition banks with larger capitalizations and non-bank financial institutions that are not governed by bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are better able to serve the needs of larger customers. Many of these financial institutions are also significantly larger than us, have greater financial resources than we have, have established customer bases and name recognition. We compete for loans principally on the basis of interest rates and loan fees, the types of loans we offer and the quality of service that we provide to our borrowers. Our ability to attract and retain deposits requires that we provide customers with competitive investment opportunities with respect to rate of return, liquidity, risk and other factors. To effectively compete, we may have to pay higher rates of interest to attract deposits, resulting in reduced profitability. In addition, we rely upon local promotional activities, personal relationships established by our officers, directors and employees and specialized services tailored to meet the individual needs of our customers in order to compete. If we are not able to effectively compete in our market area, our profitability may be negatively affected.. Interest rate changes, increases or decreases, which are out of our control, could harm profitability.. Our profitability depends to a large extent upon net interest income, which is the difference between interest income and dividends on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Any change in general market interest rates, whether as a result of changes in the monetary policy of the Federal Reserve or otherwise, may have a significant effect on net interest income.. Our assets and liabilities may react differently to changes in overall interest rates or conditions. In general, higher interest rates are associated with a lower volume of loan originations while lower interest rates are usually associated with higher loan originations. Further, if interest rates decline, our loans may be refinanced at lower rates or paid off and our investments may be prepaid earlier than expected. If that occurs, we may have to redeploy the loan or investment proceeds into lower yielding assets, which might also decrease our income. Also, as many of our loans currently have interest rate floors, a rise in rates may increase the cost of our deposits while the rates on the loans remain at their floors, which could decrease our net interest margin.. 25. INDEX. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, loan origination volumes, net interest margin, results of operations and profitability.. Since December 2015, the Federal Reserve has started to gradually increase interest rates after maintaining rates at historically low levels during the financial crisis and its aftermath. Since that date and through December 31, 2017, the Federal Reserve increased its federal funds benchmark rate five times, from near zero to a range of 1.25% to 1.5%. Moreover, since December 2015, the Federal Reserve has removed reserves from the banking system, which also puts upward pressure on market rates of interest.. The prohibition restricting depository institutions from paying interest on demand deposits, such as checking accounts, was repealed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. At December 31, 2017, we had $365 million in interest-bearing demand deposits. In addition, at December 31, 2017, we had $2.4 billion in money market and savings deposits. Currently, interest rates for these types of deposit accounts are very low because of existing market conditions. If we need to offer additional interest-bearing demand deposit products or higher interest rates on our current interest-bearing demand, money market or savings deposit accounts in order to maintain current clients or attract new clients, our interest expense will increase, perhaps materially. Furthermore, if we fail to offer competitive rates sufficient  to retain these accounts, our core deposits may be reduced, which would require us to seek alternative funding sources or risk slowing our future asset growth.. Changes in the fair value of our investment securities may reduce our stockholders' equity and net income.. At December 31, 2017, $787 million of our securities were classified as available-for-sale. At such date, the aggregate net unrealized gain on our available-for-sale securities was $646,000. We increase or decrease stockholders' equity by the amount of change from the unrealized gain or loss (the difference between the estimated fair value and the amortized cost) of our available-for-sale securities portfolio, net of the related tax, under the category of accumulated other comprehensive income/loss. Therefore, a decline in the estimated fair value of this portfolio will result in a decline in reported stockholders' equity, as well as book value per common share and tangible book value per common share. This decrease will occur even though the securities are not sold. In the case of debt securities, if these securities are never sold and there are no credit impairments, the decrease will be recovered over the life of the securities. In the case of equity securities, which have no stated maturity, the declines in fair value may or may not be recovered over time. As of December 31, 2017, the Company realized OTTI recoveries of $2,000.. At December 31, 2017, we had stock holdings in the FHLB of San Francisco totaling $17.3 million, $25.3 million in FRB stock, and $23.3 million in other stock, all carried at cost. The stock held by us is carried at cost and is subject to recoverability testing under applicable accounting standards. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we did not recognize an impairment charge related to our stock holdings. There can be no assurance that future negative changes to the financial condition of the issuers may require us to recognize an impairment charge with respect to such stock holdings.. 26. INDEX. Changes in the value of goodwill and intangible assets could reduce our earnings.. When the Company acquires a business, a substantial portion of the purchase price of the acquisition is allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. The amount of the purchase price, which is allocated to goodwill and other intangible assets is determined by the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had approximately $536 million of goodwill and intangible assets, which includes goodwill of approximately $493 million resulting from the acquisitions the Company has consummated since 2011. The Company accounts for goodwill and intangible assets in accordance with GAAP, which, in general, requires that goodwill not be amortized, but rather that it is tested for impairment at least annually at the reporting unit level. Testing for impairment of goodwill and intangible assets is performed annually and involves the identification of reporting units and the estimation of fair values. The estimation of fair values involves a high degree of judgment and subjectivity in the assumptions used. Changes in the local and national economy, the federal and state legislative and regulatory environments for financial institutions, the stock market, interest rates and other external factors (such as natural disasters or significant world events) may occur from time to time, often with great unpredictability, and may materially impact the fair value of publicly traded financial institutions and could result in an impairment charge at a future date. If we were to conclude that a future write-down of our goodwill or intangible assets is necessary, we would record the appropriate charge, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Conditions in the financial markets may limit our access to additional funding to meet our liquidity needs.. Liquidity is essential to our business, as we must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers. An inability to raise funds through deposits, repurchase agreements, federal funds purchased, FHLB advances, the sale or pledging as collateral of loans and other assets could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities, or on terms attractive to us, could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could negatively affect our access to liquidity sources include a reduction in our credit ratings, if any, an increase in costs of capital in financial capital markets, negative operating results, a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn, a decrease in depositor or investor confidence or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as severe disruption of the financial markets or negative news and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole.. The financial condition of other financial institutions could negatively affect us.. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to us. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to extensive regulation, which could adversely affect our business.. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to us are subject to regular modification and change. There are currently proposed laws, rules and regulations that, if adopted, would impact our operations. These proposed laws, rules and regulations, or any other laws, rules or regulations, may be adopted in the future, which could (1) make compliance much more. 27. INDEX. difficult or expensive, (2) restrict our ability to originate, broker or sell loans or accept certain deposits, (3) further limit or restrict the amount of commissions, interest or other charges earned on loans originated or sold by us, or (4) otherwise adversely affect our business or prospects for business.. Moreover, banking regulators have significant discretion and authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws or regulations by financial institutions and holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. The exercise of regulatory authority may have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Additionally, in order to conduct certain activities, including acquisitions, we are required to obtain regulatory approval. There can be no assurance that any required approvals can be obtained, or obtained without conditions or on a timeframe acceptable to us.. The Dodd-Frank Act continues to materially affect our operations.. The Dodd-Frank Act, which was enacted in 2010, imposed significant regulatory and compliance changes. The key provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that have affected our operations include:. • Changes to regulatory capital requirements and how we plan capital and liquidity levels;. • Creation of new government regulatory agencies, including the CFPB, which possesses broad rule-making and enforcement authorities;. • Restrictions that will impact the nature of our incentive compensation programs for executive officers;. • Changes in insured depository institution regulations and assessments;. • Mortgage loan origination and risk retention; and. • Potential new and different litigation and regulatory enforcement risks.. While several provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act became effective immediately upon its enactment and others have come into effect over the last few years, many provisions still require regulations to be promulgated by various federal agencies in order to be implemented. Some of these regulations have been proposed by the applicable federal agencies but not yet finalized.. In addition, on February 3, 2017, the President of the United States issued an executive order identifying \"core principles\" for the administration's financial services regulatory policy and directing the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the heads of other financial regulatory agencies, to evaluate how the current regulatory framework promotes or inhibits the principles and what actions have been, and are being, taken to promote the principles. In response to the executive order, on June 12, 2017, October 6, 2017 and October 26, 2017, respectively, the U.S. Department of the Treasury issued the first three of four reports recommending a number of comprehensive changes in the current regulatory system for U.S. depository institutions, the U.S. capital markets and the U.S. asset management and insurance industries.. It is not clear whether the referenced executive order issued by President Trump will result in material changes to the current laws and rules, or those that are in process, applicable to financial institutions and financial services or products like ours.. Given the uncertainty associated with the manner in which the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented by the various regulatory agencies and through regulations, the full extent of the impact such requirements will have on our operations is unclear. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices, impose upon us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business. These changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with the new. 28. INDEX. requirements or with any future changes in laws or regulations may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.. Changes in laws, government regulation and monetary policy may have a material effect on our results of operations.. Financial institutions have been the subject of substantial legislative and regulatory changes and may be the subject of further legislation or regulation in the future, none of which is within our control. Significant new laws or regulations or changes in, or repeals of, existing laws or regulations may cause our results of operations to differ materially. In addition, the cost and burden of compliance with applicable laws and regulations have significantly increased and could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Further, federal monetary policy significantly affects credit conditions for us, as well as for our borrowers, particularly as implemented by the Federal Reserve, primarily through open market operations in U.S. government securities, the discount rate for bank borrowings and reserve requirements. A material change in any of these conditions could have a material impact on us or our borrowers, and therefore on our results of operations.. Federal and state banking agencies periodically conduct examinations of our business, including compliance with laws and regulations, and our failure to comply with any supervisory actions to which we are or become subject as a result of such examinations may adversely affect us.. Federal and state banking agencies, including the Federal Reserve, the DBO and the FDIC, periodically conduct examinations of our business, including compliance with laws and regulations. If, as a result of an examination, a federal banking agency were to determine that the financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity or other aspects of any of our operations had become unsatisfactory, or that the Company or its management was in violation of any law or regulation, it may take a number of different remedial actions as it deems appropriate. These actions include the power to enjoin \"unsafe or unsound\" practices, to require affirmative actions to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to issue an administrative order that can be judicially enforced, to direct an increase in our capital, to restrict our growth, to assess civil monetary penalties against our officers or directors, to remove officers and directors and, if it is concluded that such conditions cannot be corrected or there is an imminent risk of loss to depositors, to terminate our deposit insurance. If we become subject to such regulatory actions, our business, results of operations and reputation may be negatively impacted.. Our HOA business is substantially dependent upon its relationship with Associa, which is the entity that owns and controls the HOA management companies that manage the HOAs from which we receive a majority of our HOA deposits.. In March 2013, we acquired FAB, which is exclusively focused on providing deposit and other services to HOAs and HOA management companies nationwide. Some of our HOA customers are also customers of the HOA management companies controlled by Associations, Inc. (\"Associa\"). At December 31, 2017, approximately 41% of the HOA transaction deposits we held were derived from our relationship with Associa. We will continue to rely on the relationship with Associa to solicit HOA deposits as deemed necessary. If Associa or its HOA management companies lose some or all of their HOA customers, fall into financial or legal difficulty or elect to reduce the amount of HOA customers that it directs to us, it could have a material and adverse effect upon our business, including the decline or total loss of all of the deposits from the HOA management companies and the HOAs. We cannot assure you that we would be able to replace the relationship with Associa and its HOA management companies if any of these events occurred, which could have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In connection with the closing of the FAB acquisition, we appointed John Carona to the boards of directors of the Company and the Bank. Mr. Carona is the President and Chief Executive Officer of Associa.. 29. INDEX. Existing and potential acquisitions may disrupt our business.. On April 1, 2017, we completed the acquisition of HEOP, the holding company of Heritage Oaks Bank, a California state-chartered bank with $2.0 billion in total assets. On November 1, 2017, we completed the acquisition of PLZZ, the holding company of Plaza Bank, a California-chartered banking corporation with $1.3 billion in total assets.. On February 9, 2018, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Grandpoint, the holding company of Grandpoint Bank, a California state-chartered bank with $3.2 billion in total assets. That transaction is expected to close in the third quarter of 2018, subject to the receipt all required regulatory and stockholder approvals and the satisfaction or waiver, applicable, of all closing conditions.. The success of these mergers will depend on, among other things, our ability to realize the anticipated revenue enhancements and efficiencies and to combine the businesses of Pacific Premier with those of HEOP, PLZZ and Grandpoint, if the acquisition is completed, in a manner that does not materially disrupt the existing customer relationships of HEOP, PLZZ or Grandpoint, if applicable, or result in decreased revenues resulting from any loss of customers, and that permits growth opportunities to occur. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the mergers may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected.. It is possible that the ongoing HEOP integration process, the PLZZ integration process or the Grandpoint integration process when and if applicable, could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the mergers. Integration efforts could also divert management attention and resources. These integration matters could have an adverse effect on the combined company.. Existing and potential acquisitions may dilute stockholder value.. In addition, we issued 11,959,022 shares of our common stock in connection with the HEOP acquisition and 6,049,373 shares of our common stock in connection with the acquisition of PLZZ. All of the shares of our common stock issued to former HEOP and PLZZ shareholders in the mergers are freely tradable without restrictions under the Securities Act. If former HEOP and PLZZ holders sell substantial amounts of our common stock, it may cause the market price of our common stock to decrease. We are expected to issue approximately 15,758,089 shares of our common stock in the Grandpoint acquisition.. We continue to evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions on an ongoing basis. As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of our stock's tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from recent or future acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We cannot say with any certainty that we will be able to consummate, or if consummated, successfully integrate future acquisitions or that we will not incur disruptions or unexpected expenses in integrating such acquisitions. In attempting to make such future acquisitions, we anticipate competing with other financial institutions, many of which have greater financial and operational resources. Acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things:. 30. INDEX. • Potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company;. • Exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company;. • Potential disruption to our business;. • Potential diversion of management's time and attention;. • The possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company;. • Difficulty in estimating the value of the target company; and. • Potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company.. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented.. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Environmental liabilities with respect to properties on which we take title may have a material effect on our results of operations.. We could be subject to environmental liabilities on real estate properties we foreclose and take title in the normal course of our business. In connection with environmental contamination, we may be held liable to governmental entities or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties, or we may be required to investigate or clean-up hazardous or toxic substances at a property. The investigation or remediation costs associated with such activities could be substantial. Furthermore, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination even if we were the former owner of a contaminated site. The incurrence of a significant environmental liability could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A breach in the security of our systems, or those of contracted partners, could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation, and create significant financial and legal exposure.. Although we devote significant resources to maintain and regularly update our systems and processes that are designed to protect the security of our computer systems, software, networks and other technology assets, as well as the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information belonging to us and our customers, there is no assurance that all of our security measures will provide absolute security.. Like many financial institutions, we can be subject to attempts to infiltrate the security of our websites or other systems which can involve sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information, destroy data, disrupt service, sabotage systems or cause other damage, including through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, cyberattacks and other means. We can be targeted by individuals and groups using malicious code and viruses, and can be exposed to distributed denial-of-service attacks with the objective of disrupting on-line banking services.. Despite efforts to ensure the security and integrity of our systems, it is possible that we may not be able to anticipate, detect or recognize threats to our systems or to implement effective preventive measures against all security breaches of these types inside or outside our business, especially because the techniques used frequently are not recognized until launched, and because cyberattacks can originate from a wide variety of sources, including individuals or groups who are or may be involved in organized crime, hostile foreign governments or linked to terrorist organizations. These risks may increase in the future as our web-based product offerings grow or we expand internal usage of web-based applications.. 31. INDEX. A successful penetration or circumvention of the security of our systems or the systems of another market participant could cause serious negative consequences, including significant disruption of our operations, misappropriation of confidential information, or damage to computers or systems, and may result in violations of applicable privacy and other laws, financial loss, loss of confidence, customer dissatisfaction, significant litigation exposure and harm to our reputation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects.. We are dependent on our key personnel.. Our future operating results depend in large part on the continued services of our key personnel, including Steven R. Gardner, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, who developed and implemented our business strategy. The loss of Mr. Gardner could have a negative impact on the success of our business strategy. In addition, we rely upon the services of Edward Wilcox, President, and our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on any employee other than Mr. Gardner. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. The unexpected loss of services of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. In addition, recent regulatory proposals and guidance relating to compensation may negatively impact our ability to retain and attract skilled personnel.. A natural disaster or recurring energy shortage, especially in California, could harm our business.. We are based in Irvine, California, and approximately 61% of our loans secured by real estate were located in California at December 31, 2017. In addition, the computer systems that operate our Internet websites and some of their back-up systems are located in Irvine and San Diego, California. Historically, California has been vulnerable to natural disasters. Therefore, we are susceptible to the risks of natural disasters, such as earthquakes, wildfires, floods and mudslides. Natural disasters could harm our operations directly through interference with communications, including the interruption or loss of our websites, which would prevent us from gathering deposits, originating loans and processing and controlling our flow of business, as well as through the destruction of facilities and our operational, financial and management information systems. A natural disaster or recurring power outages may also impair the value of our largest class of assets, our loan portfolio, which is comprised substantially of real estate loans. Uninsured or underinsured disasters may reduce borrowers' ability to repay mortgage loans. Disasters may also reduce the value of the real estate securing our loans, impairing our ability to recover on defaulted loans through foreclosure and making it more likely that we would suffer losses on defaulted loans. California has also experienced energy shortages, which, if they recur, could impair the value of the real estate in those areas affected. Although we have implemented several back-up systems and protections (and maintain business interruption insurance), these measures may not protect us fully from the effects of a natural disaster. The occurrence of natural disasters or energy shortages in California could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for you to resell your shares of common stock at times or at prices you find attractive.. Stock price volatility may make it difficult for holders of our common stock to resell their common stock when desired and at desirable prices. Our stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things:. • Actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations;. • Recommendations by securities analysts;. • Operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us;. 32. INDEX. • News reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry, including the failures of other financial institutions in the current economic downturn;. • Perceptions in the marketplace regarding us and/or our competitors;. • Cyber security breaches;. • New technology used, or services offered, by competitors;. • Significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors;. • Failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions;. • Changes in government regulations; and. • Geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts.. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results as evidenced by the current volatility and disruption of capital and credit markets.. We have retained earnings, if any, to provide funds for use in our business.. It is our policy to retain earnings, if any, to provide funds for use in our business. We have never declared or paid dividends on our common stock. In addition, in order to pay cash dividends over time to our stockholders, we would most likely need to obtain funds from the Bank. The Bank's ability, in turn, to pay dividends to us is subject to restrictions set forth in the Financial Code. The Financial Code provides that a bank may not make a cash distribution to its stockholders in excess of the lesser of (1) a bank's retained earnings; or (2) a bank's net income for its last three fiscal years, less the amount of any distributions made by the bank or by any majority-owned subsidiary of the bank to the stockholders of the bank during such period. However, a bank may, with the approval of the DBO, make a distribution to its stockholders in an amount not exceeding the greatest of (a) its retained earnings; (b) its net income for its last fiscal year; or (c) its net income for its current fiscal year. In the event that banking regulators determine that the stockholders' equity of a bank is inadequate or that the making of a distribution by the bank would be unsafe or unsound, the regulators may order the bank to refrain from making a proposed distribution.. Approval of the Federal Reserve is required for payment of any dividend by a state chartered bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve Board System, such as the Bank, if the total of all dividends declared by the bank in any calendar year would exceed the total of its retained net income for that year combined with its retained net income for the preceding two years. In addition, a state member bank may not pay a dividend in an amount greater than its undivided profits without regulatory and stockholder approval. The Bank is also prohibited under federal law from paying any dividend that would cause it to become undercapitalized."
