[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. In the course of conducting our business operations, we are exposed to a variety of risks, some of which are inherent in the financial services industry and others of which are more specific to our own businesses. The discussion below addresses the most significant factors, of which we are currently aware, that could affect our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Additional factors that could affect our businesses, results of operations and financial condition are discussed in \"Item 1. Business - Forward-Looking Information.\"  However, other factors not discussed below or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K could adversely affect our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Therefore, the risk factors below should not be considered a complete list of potential risks we may face.. Any risk factor described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any of our other SEC filings could by itself, or together with other factors, materially adversely affect our liquidity, cash flows, competitive position, business, reputation, results of operations, capital position or financial condition, including materially increasing our expenses or decreasing our revenues, which could result in material losses.. General Economic and Market Conditions Risk. Our business is adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions.. U.S. economic conditions affect our operating results. The United States economy has been in an eight-year expansion since the Great Recession ended in 2009.  This current expansion has been longer than most U.S. expansionary periods in recent history. In the event of an economic recession our operating results could be adversely affected because we could experience higher loan and lease charge-offs and higher operating costs. Global economic conditions also affect our operating results because global economic conditions directly influence the U.S. economic conditions. Various market conditions also affect our operating results. Real estate market conditions directly affect performance of our loans secured by real estate. Debt markets affect the availability of credit which impacts the rates and terms at which we offer loans and leases. Stock market downturns often signal broader economic deterioration and/or a downward trend in business earnings which may adversely affect businesses' ability to raise capital and/or service their debts.. An economic recession or a downturn in various markets could have one or more of the following adverse effects on our business:. • a decrease in the demand for our loans and leases and other products and services offered by us;. • a decrease in our deposit balances due to overall reductions in the accounts of customers;. • a decrease in the value of our loans and leases;. • an increase in the level of nonperforming and classified loans and leases:. • an increase in provisions for credit losses and loan and lease charge-offs;. • a decrease in net interest income derived from our lending and deposit gathering activities;. • a decrease in the Company's stock price;. • an impairment of goodwill or certain intangible assets; or. • an increase in our operating expenses associated with attending to the effects of the above-listed circumstances.. Our ability to attract and retain qualified employees is critical to our success.. Our employees are our most important resource, and in many areas of the financial services industry, competition for qualified personnel is intense. We endeavor to attract talented and diverse new employees and retain and motivate our existing employees to assist in executing our growth, acquisition, and business strategies. We also seek to retain proven, experienced senior employees with superior talent, augmented from time to time by external hires, to provide continuity of succession of our executive management team. In addition, the Company's Board oversees succession planning, including review of the succession plans for the Chief Executive Officer and other members of executive management. If for any reason we are unable to continue to attract or retain qualified employees, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially and adversely affected.. 26. Credit Risk. Credit Risk is the Risk of Loss Arising from the Inability or Failure of a Borrower or Counterparty to Meet its Obligation.. We may not recover all amounts that are contractually owed to us by our borrowers.. We are dependent on loan and lease principal, interest, and fee collections to partially fund our operations. A shortfall in collections and proceeds may impair our ability to fund our operations or to repay our existing debt.. When we loan money, commit to loan money or enter into a letter of credit or other contract with a counterparty, we incur credit risk. The credit quality of our portfolio can have a significant impact on our earnings. We expect to experience charge-offs and delinquencies on our loans and leases in the future. Our clients' actual operating results may be worse than our underwriting indicated when we originated the loans and leases, and in these circumstances, if timely corrective actions are not taken, we could incur substantial impairment or loss of the value on these loans and leases.  We may fail to identify problems because our client did not report them in a timely manner or, even if the client did report the problem, we may fail to address it quickly enough or at all. Even if clients provide us with full and accurate disclosure of all material information concerning their businesses, we may misinterpret or incorrectly analyze this information. Mistakes may cause us to make loans and leases that we otherwise would not have made or to fund advances that we otherwise would not have funded, either of which could result in losses on loans and leases, or necessitate that we significantly increase our allowance for loan and lease losses. As a result, we could suffer loan losses and have nonperforming loans and leases, which could have a material adverse effect on our net earnings and results of operations and financial condition, to the extent the losses exceed our allowance for loan and lease losses.. Additionally, some of our loans and leases are secured by a lien on specified collateral of the borrower and we may not obtain or properly perfect our liens or the value of the collateral securing any particular loan may not protect us from suffering a partial or complete loss if the loan becomes nonperforming and we proceed to foreclose on or repossess the collateral. In such event, we could suffer loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our net earnings, allowance for loan and lease losses, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our allowance for credit losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses.. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses to provide for loan and lease defaults and non-performance and a reserve for unfunded loan commitments, which, when combined, we refer to as the allowance for credit losses. Our allowance for credit losses may not be adequate to absorb actual credit losses, and future provisions for credit losses could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Our allowance for credit losses is based on prior experience and an evaluation of the risks inherent in the current portfolio. The amount of future losses is influenced by changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Our federal and state regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and leases and allowance for credit losses. While we believe our allowance for credit losses is appropriate for the risk identified in our loan and lease portfolio, we cannot provide assurance that we will not further increase the allowance for credit losses, that it will be sufficient to address losses, or that regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Any of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. See \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" for more information.. Our concentration of loans and leases to privately owned small and medium-sized companies and our concentration of lending to particular market sectors and industries could expose us to greater lending risk if the privately owned small or medium-sized company, market sector or industry were to experience economic difficulties or changes in the regulatory environment.. Our portfolio consists primarily of real estate and commercial loans and leases to small and medium-sized privately owned businesses in a limited number of industries throughout the United States. Loans and leases made to these types of clients entail higher risks than loans and leases made to larger, publicly owned firms that are able to access a broader array of credit sources and thus more easily weather an economic downturn.. 27. Real estate mortgage loans and real estate construction and land loans (which are predominantly commercial real estate loans) together comprised 56% of our total loans and leases held for investment at December 31, 2017 and our largest property type concentration was multi-family properties, totaling 27% of real estate mortgage loans.  Other significant real estate mortgage loan property type concentrations were industrial properties at 15% and office properties at 14% of our real estate mortgage loans at December 31, 2017.  In addition, 55% of our loans secured by real estate were in California at December 31, 2017.  Commercial loans and leases comprised 42% of our total loans and leases held for investment at December 31, 2017.  Significant commercial loan concentrations by loan type included asset-based loans at 18%, venture capital loans at 12%, cash flow loans at 8%, and equipment finance loans and leases at 4% of total loans and leases held for investment at December 31, 2017.. If any particular industry or market sector were to experience economic difficulties, the overall timing and amount of collections on our loans to clients operating in those industries may differ from what we expected, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations.. We have a number of large credit relationships and individual commitments.. At December 31, 2017, we had ten credit relationships with aggregate commitments greater than $100 million. These ten relationships had commitments that totaled $1.9 billion and corresponding outstanding balances of $1.2 billion. These relationships represent loans to borrowers under common ownership and also loans aggregated due to a common institutional investor or private equity sponsor. The aggregated loans typically are not cross collateralized and each borrower's performance does not usually impact the collectability of the other loans in the aggregation.. At December 31, 2017, our ten largest individual loan commitments totaled $908.9 million and had corresponding outstanding balances that totaled $516.2 million. These ten largest individual commitments ranged from $75.0 million to $110.0 million.  These commitments primarily are secured by commercial real estate with borrowers that are experienced operators with proven track records or are lender finance loans secured by portfolios of loan receivables originated by finance companies.. We are potentially vulnerable to significant loan losses in the event that the value of one of our larger borrower's collateral rapidly declines or one of our larger borrowers becomes unable to repay its loans due to a decline in its business. A significant loss related to one of our large lending relationships or individual commitments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. A slowdown in venture capital investment levels may reduce the market for venture capital investment in our Square 1 Bank Division clients, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition.. Our Square 1 Bank Division's strategy is focused on providing banking products and credit to entrepreneurial businesses, including in particular early- and expansion-stage companies that receive financial support from sophisticated investors, including venture capital or private equity firms, and corporate investors. We derive a meaningful share of deposits, including large deposits, from these companies and provide them with loans as well as other banking products and services. In many cases, our credit decisions are based on our analysis of the likelihood that our venture capital-backed client will receive additional rounds of equity capital from investors. If the amount of capital available to such companies decreases, we could suffer loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our net earnings, allowance for loan and lease losses, financial condition, and results of operations.. 28. Market Risk. Market Risk is the Risk that Market Conditions May Adversely Impact the Value of Assets or Liabilities or Otherwise Negatively Impact Earnings. Market Risk is Inherent to the Financial Instruments Associated with our Operations, Including Loans, Deposits, Securities, Short-term Borrowings, Long-term Debt, and Derivatives.. Our business is subject to interest rate risk, and variations in interest rates may materially and adversely affect our financial performance.. Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce our profits. It is expected that we will continue to realize income from the differential or \"spread\" between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in market interest rates generally affect loan volume, loan yields, funding sources and funding costs. Our net interest spread depends on many factors that are partly or completely out of our control, including competition, federal economic monetary and fiscal policies, and general economic conditions.. While an increase in interest rates may increase our loan yield, it may adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers with variable rate loans to pay the contractual interest and principal due to us.  Following an increase in interest rates, our ability to maintain a positive net interest spread is dependent on our ability to increase our loan offering rates, replace loans that mature and repay or that prepay before maturity with new originations, minimize increases on our deposit rates, and maintain an acceptable level and composition of funding. We cannot provide assurances that we will be able to increase our loan offering rates and continue to originate loans due to the competitive landscape in which we operate. Additionally, we cannot provide assurances that we can minimize the increases in our deposit rates while maintaining an acceptable level of deposits. Finally, we cannot provide any assurances that we can maintain our current levels of noninterest-bearing deposits as customers may seek higher-yielding products when interest rates increase.. Accordingly, changes in levels of interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, net interest margin, cost of deposits, asset quality, loan origination volume, average loan portfolio balance, liquidity, and overall profitability.. The value of our securities in our investment portfolio may decline in the future.. The fair value of our investment securities may be adversely affected by market conditions, including changes in interest rates, implied credit spreads, and the occurrence of any events adversely affecting the issuer of particular securities in our investments portfolio or any given market segment or industry in which we are invested. We analyze our securities on a quarterly basis to determine if an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred. The process for determining whether impairment is other-than-temporary usually requires complex, subjective judgments about the future financial performance of the issuer in order to assess the probability of receiving all contractual principal and interest payments on the security. Because of changing economic and market conditions affecting issuers, we may be required to recognize other-than-temporary impairment in future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. 29. Liquidity Risk. Liquidity Risk is the Potential Inability to Meet our Contractual and Contingent Financial Obligations, On- or Off-balance Sheet, as they Become Due.. We are subject to liquidity risk, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Effective liquidity management is essential for the operation of our business. Although we have implemented strategies to maintain sufficient and diverse sources of funding to accommodate planned, as well as unanticipated, changes in assets, liabilities, and off-balance sheet commitments under various economic conditions, an inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of investment securities and other sources could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market disruption, a decrease in the borrowing capacity assigned to our pledged assets by our secured creditors, or adverse regulatory action against us. Deterioration in economic conditions and the loss of confidence in financial institutions may increase our cost of funding and limit our access to some of our customary sources of liquidity, including, but not limited to, inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the discount window of the FRBSF.  Our ability to acquire deposits or borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry generally as a result of conditions faced by banking organizations in the domestic and international credit markets.. We may be adversely affected by changes in the actual or perceived soundness or condition of other financial institutions.. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial and financial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial institutions are closely related as a result of trading, investment, liquidity management, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. Loss of public confidence in any one institution, including through default, could lead to liquidity and credit problems, losses, or defaults for other institutions.  Even the perceived lack of creditworthiness of, or questions about, a counterparty may lead to market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses, or defaults by various institutions. This systemic risk may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, banks and exchanges we interact with on a daily basis or key funding providers such as the Federal Home Loan Banks, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our access to liquidity or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. The primary source of the holding company's liquidity from which, among other things, we pay dividends is the receipt of dividends from the Bank.. The holding company, PacWest, is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank and our other subsidiaries. The availability of dividends from the Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of the Bank and other factors, that the FRB, the FDIC and/or the DBO could assert that payment of dividends or other payments is an unsafe or unsound practice. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the holding company, it is likely that we, in turn, would have to discontinue capital distributions in the form of dividends or share repurchases and may have difficulty meeting our other financial obligations, including payments in respect of any outstanding indebtedness or subordinated debentures. Since the Bank had an accumulated deficit of $434.8 million at December 31, 2017, for the foreseeable future, any cash dividends from the Bank to the holding company will continue to require DBO and FDIC approval. The inability of the Bank to pay dividends to the holding company could have a material adverse effect on our business, including the market price of our common stock.. 30. We may reduce or discontinue the payment of dividends on common stock.. Our stockholders are only entitled to receive such dividends as our Board may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. Our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders is subject to the restrictions set forth in Delaware law, by the FRB, and by certain covenants contained in our subordinated debentures. Notification to the FRB is also required prior to our declaring and paying a cash dividend to our stockholders during any period in which our quarterly and/or cumulative twelve-month net earnings are insufficient to fund the dividend amount, among other requirements. We may not pay a dividend if the FRB objects or until such time as we receive approval from the FRB or we no longer need to provide notice under applicable regulations. In addition, we may be restricted by applicable law or regulation or actions taken by our regulators, now or in the future, from paying dividends to our stockholders. We cannot provide assurance that we will continue paying dividends on our common stock at current levels or at all. A reduction or discontinuance of dividends on our common stock could have a material adverse effect on our business, including the market price of our common stock.. Capital Risk. We are subject to capital adequacy standards, and a failure to meet these standards could adversely affect our financial condition.. The Company and the Bank are each subject to capital adequacy and liquidity rules and other regulatory requirements specifying minimum amounts and types of capital that must be maintained. From time to time, the regulators implement changes to these regulatory capital adequacy and liquidity guidelines. If we fail to meet these minimum capital and liquidity guidelines and other regulatory requirements, we and our subsidiaries may be restricted in the types of activities we may conduct and may be prohibited from taking certain capital actions, such as paying dividends and repurchasing or redeeming capital securities.. We may need to raise additional capital in the future and such capital may not be available when needed or at all.. We are required by federal and state regulators to maintain adequate levels of capital.  We may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources to meet regulatory requirements. As a publicly traded company, a likely source of additional funds is the capital markets, accomplished generally through the issuance of equity, both common and preferred stock, and the issuance of subordinated debentures. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance.. We cannot provide any assurance that access to such capital will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers or counter-parties participating in the capital markets, may materially and adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. Further, if we need to raise capital in the future, we may have to do so when many other financial institutions are also seeking to raise capital and would then have to compete with those institutions for investors. The inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. 31. Regulatory, Compliance and Legal Risk. We are subject to extensive regulation, which could materially and adversely affect our business.. The banking industry is extensively regulated and supervised under both federal and state laws and regulations that are intended primarily for the protection of depositors, customers, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not for the protection of our stockholders and creditors. The Company is subject to regulation and supervision by the FRB, and the Bank is subject to regulation and supervision by the FDIC, DBO and CFPB. The laws and regulations applicable to us govern a variety of matters, including, but not limited to, permissible types, amounts and terms of loans and investments we make, the maximum interest rate that may be charged, consumer disclosures on the products and services we offer, the amount of reserves we must hold against our customers' deposits, the types of deposits we may accept and the rates we may pay on such deposits, maintenance of adequate capital and liquidity, restrictions on dividends and establishment of new offices by the Bank. We must obtain approval from our regulators before engaging in certain activities, including certain acquisitions, and there can be no assurance that any regulatory approvals we may require will be obtained, or obtained without conditions, either in a timely manner or at all. Our regulators have the ability to compel us to, or restrict us from, taking certain actions entirely, such as actions that our regulators deem to constitute unsafe or unsound banking practice. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent violations of the extensive federal and state regulations we are subject to, our failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations, or regulatory policies and interpretations of such laws and regulations, could result in orders from our regulators, civil monetary penalties, or damage to our reputation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operation.. Regulations affecting banks and other financial institutions, such as the Dodd-Frank Act, are undergoing continuous review and change frequently. The ultimate effect of such changes cannot be predicted. Because our business is highly regulated, compliance with such regulations and laws may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Also, participation in any future specific government stabilization programs may subject us to additional restrictions. There can be no assurance that laws, rules and regulations will not be proposed or adopted in the future, which could (i) make compliance much more difficult or expensive, (ii) restrict our ability to originate, broker or sell loans or accept certain deposits, (iii) further limit or restrict the amount of commissions, interest or other charges earned on loans originated or sold by us, or (iv) otherwise materially and adversely affect our business or prospects for business. While there is proposed federal legislation that would scale back portions of the Dodd-Frank Act and the current administration in the United States may ultimately roll back or modify certain of the regulations adopted since the financial crisis, including those adopted under the Dodd-Frank Act, uncertainty about the timing and scope of any such changes as well as the cost of complying with a new regulatory regime, may negatively impact our business, at least in the short term, even if the long-term impact of any such changes are positive for our business.. In October 2012, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the FRB and FDIC published final rules regarding company-run stress testing. As a result of these final rules we invest a significant amount of time and resources into conducting an annual company-run stress test of capital, consolidated earnings and losses under various stress scenarios provided by our regulators. Our stress test results are considered by the FRB and FDIC in evaluating our capital adequacy and could have a negative impact on our ability to make capital distributions in the form of dividends or share repurchases.. The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to changes in federal and state tax laws, interpretation of existing laws and examinations and challenges by taxing authorities.. Our financial performance is impacted by federal and state tax laws. Given the current economic and political environment, and ongoing budgetary pressures, the enactment of new federal or state tax legislation or new interpretations of existing tax laws could occur. The enactment of such legislation, or changes in the interpretation of existing law, including provisions impacting income tax rates, apportionment, consolidation or combination, income, expenses, and credits, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity.. In the normal course of business, we are routinely subjected to examinations and audits from federal and state taxing authorities regarding tax positions taken by us and the determination of the amount of tax due. These examinations may relate to income, franchise, gross receipts, payroll, property, sales and use, or other tax returns filed, or not filed, by us. The challenges made by taxing authorities may result in adjustments to the amount of taxes due, and may result in the imposition of penalties and interest. If any such challenges are not resolved in our favor, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity.. 32. We are subject to claims and litigation which could adversely affect our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations, or cause us significant reputational harm.. We and certain of our subsidiaries and certain of our and their directors and officers may be involved, from time to time, in reviews, investigations, litigation, and other proceedings pertaining to our business activities.  If claims or legal actions, whether founded or unfounded, are not resolved in a favorable manner to us, they may result in significant financial liability. Although we establish accruals for legal matters when and as required by U.S. GAAP and certain expenses and liabilities in connection with such matters may be covered by insurance, the amount of loss ultimately incurred in relation to those matters may be substantially higher than the amounts accrued and/or insured. Substantial legal liability could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and reputation.. Risk of the Competitive Environment in which We Operate. We face strong competition from financial services companies and other companies that offer banking services, which could materially and adversely affect our business.. The financial services industry has become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued banking consolidation, which may increase in connection with current economic, market and political conditions. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of competitors, including national banks, regional banks, community banks and, more recently, financial technology (or \"fintech\") companies.Many of our competitors offer the same banking services that we offer and our success depends on our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards.  Increased competition in our market may result in reduced new loan and lease production and/or decreased deposit balances or less favorable terms on loans and leases and/or deposit accounts. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including without limitation, non-bank specialty lenders, insurance companies, private investment funds, investment banks, and other financial intermediaries. While there are a limited number of direct competitors in the venture banking market, some of our competitors have long-standing relationships with venture firms and the companies that are funded by such firms. The market for our Square 1 Bank Division is extremely competitive and several of our competitors have significantly greater resources, established customer bases, more locations, and longer operating histories.. We also face competition from financial intermediaries that have opened production offices or that solicit deposits in our market areas. Should competition in the financial services industry intensify, our ability to market our products and services may be adversely affected. If we are unable to attract and retain banking customers, we may be unable to grow or maintain the levels of our loans and deposits and our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected as a result. Ultimately, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors.. Our ability to maintain, attract and retain customer relationships and investors is highly dependent on our reputation.. Damage to our reputation could undermine the confidence of our current and potential customers and investors in our ability to provide high-quality financial services. Such damage could also impair the confidence of our counterparties and vendors and ultimately affect our ability to effect transactions. Maintenance of our reputation depends not only on our success in maintaining our service-focused culture and controlling and mitigating the various risks described herein, but also on our success in identifying and appropriately addressing issues that may arise in areas such as potential conflicts of interest, anti-money laundering, client personal information and privacy issues, customer and other third-party fraud, record-keeping, technology-related issues including but not limited to cyber fraud, regulatory investigations and any litigation that may arise from the failure or perceived failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements. Maintaining our reputation also depends on our ability to successfully prevent third parties from infringing on our brands and associated trademarks and our other intellectual property. Defense of our reputation, trademarks and other intellectual property, including through litigation, could result in costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. 33. Risks Related to Risk Management. Our acquisitions may subject us to unknown risks.. As an active acquirer having successfully completed 29 acquisitions since 2000, certain events may arise after the date of an acquisition, or we may learn of certain facts, events or circumstances after the closing of an acquisition, that may affect our financial condition or performance or subject us to risk of loss. These events include, but are not limited to: litigation resulting from circumstances occurring at the acquired entity prior to the date of acquisition; loan downgrades and credit loss provisions resulting from deterioration in the credit quality of the acquired loans; personnel changes that cause instability within a department; delays in implementing new policies or procedures or the failure to apply new policies or procedures; and other events relating to the performance of our business. Acquisitions involve inherent uncertainty and we cannot determine all potential events, facts and circumstances that could result in loss or increased costs or give assurances that our due diligence or mitigation efforts will be sufficient to protect against any such loss or increased costs.. Our ability to execute our strategic initiatives successfully will depend on a variety of factors. These factors likely will vary based on the nature of the initiative but may include our success in integrating the operations, services, products, personnel and systems of an acquired company into our business, operating effectively with any partner with whom we elect to do business, retaining key employees, achieving anticipated synergies, meeting expectations and otherwise realizing the undertaking's anticipated benefits. Our ability to address these matters successfully cannot be assured. In addition, our strategic initiatives may divert resources or management's attention from ongoing business operations and may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny. If we do not successfully execute a strategic undertaking, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation, regulatory relationships and growth prospects. In addition, if we determined that the value of an acquired business had decreased and that the related goodwill is impaired, an impairment of goodwill charge to earnings would be recognized. To the extent we issue capital stock in connection with future acquisitions, these transactions may be dilutive to book value and earnings per share and will dilute share ownership.. Failure to keep pace with technological change could adversely affect our business.. The financial services industry experiences continuous technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. To keep pace with technology and provide sufficient scalability for growth, we began our conversion to a new core processing system related to managing customer accounts during 2016 and the additional phases are scheduled to be completed during the second quarter of 2018.  Many of our competitors, however, have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. In addition, we depend on internal and outsourced technology to support all aspects of our business operations. Interruption or failure of these systems creates a risk of business loss as a result of adverse customer experiences and possible diminishing of our reputation, damage claims or civil fines. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry or to successfully implement core processing strategies could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations.. A breach in the security of our systems, or those of contracted partners, could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation, and create significant financial and legal exposure.. Although we devote significant resources to maintain and regularly update our systems and processes that are designed to protect the security of our computer systems, software, networks and other technology assets, as well as the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information belonging to us and our customers, there is no assurance that all of our security measures will provide absolute security.. 34. Many financial institutions, including the Company, have been subjected to attempts to infiltrate the security of their websites or other systems, some involving sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information, destroy data, disrupt or degrade service, sabotage systems or cause other damage, including through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, cyber-attacks and other means. We have been targeted by individuals and groups using phishing campaigns, pretext calling, malicious code and viruses, and have experienced distributed denial-of-service attacks with the objective of disrupting on-line banking services and expect to be subject to such attacks in the future.. Despite efforts to ensure the integrity of our systems, it is possible that we may not be able to anticipate, detect or recognize threats to our systems or to implement effective preventive measures against all security breaches of these types inside or outside our business, especially because the techniques used change frequently or are not recognized until launched, and because cyber-attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources, including individuals or groups who are associated with external service providers or who are or may be involved in organized crime or linked to terrorist organizations or hostile foreign governments. Those parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers, third-party service providers or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or that of our customers or clients. These risks may increase in the future as our web-based product offerings grow or we expand internal usage of web-based applications.. A successful penetration or circumvention of the security of our systems, the systems of another market participant, or a third-party provider of products and services could cause serious negative consequences, including significant disruption of our operations, misappropriation of confidential information, or damage to computers or systems, and may result in violations of applicable privacy and other laws, financial loss, loss of confidence in our security measures, customer dissatisfaction, increased insurance premiums, significant litigation exposure and harm to our reputation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects.. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure.. We rely on certain third parties to provide products and services necessary to maintain day-to-day operations, such as data processing and storage, recording and monitoring transactions, on-line banking interfaces and services, Internet connections, telecommunications, and network access. Even though we have a vendor management program to help us carefully select and monitor the performance of third parties, we do not control their actions. The failure of a third-party to perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements as a result of changes in the third party's organizational structure, financial condition, support for existing products and services, strategic focus, system interruption or breaches, or for any other reason, could be disruptive to our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Replacing these third parties could also create significant delays and expense.  Accordingly, use of such third parties creates an inherent risk to our business operations.. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented.. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, compliance monitoring activities and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well-designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, reputation and financial condition. In addition, if we identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting or are required to restate our financial statements, we could be required to implement expensive and time-consuming remedial measures. We could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and potentially subject us to litigation. Any material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting or restatement of our financial statements could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, reputation, and financial condition.. 35. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism or other adverse external events could harm the Company's business.. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business.  The nature and level of severe weather and/or natural disasters cannot be predicted and may be exacerbated by global climate change. Severe weather and natural disasters could harm our operations through interference with communications, including the interruption or loss of our computer systems, which could prevent or impede us from gathering deposits, originating loans and processing and controlling the flow of business, as well as through the destruction of facilities and our operational, financial and management information systems. California, in which a substantial portion of our business and a substantial portion of our loan collateral is located, is susceptible to severe weather and natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods, droughts and wildfires. Additionally, the United States remains a target for potential acts of war or terrorism.  Such severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism or other adverse external events could negatively impact our business operations or the stability of our deposit base, cause significant property damage, adversely impact the values of collateral securing our loans and/or interrupt our borrowers' abilities to conduct their business in a manner to support their debt obligations, which could result in losses and increased provisions for credit losses.  There is no assurance that our business continuity and disaster recovery program can adequately mitigate the risks of such business disruptions and interruptions.. Risk from Accounting Estimates. Our decisions regarding the fair value of assets acquired could be inaccurate which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects.. To comply with U.S. GAAP, management must exercise judgment in selecting, determining, and applying accounting methods, assumptions, and estimates. Management makes various estimates and judgments about the collectability of acquired loans, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of secured loans. If the actual performance of the acquired loans and/or the value of the collateral differs materially from management's estimates, any resulting losses or increased credit loss provisions could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. 36"
