[1] "Item 1A  Risk Factors.. Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our common stock.. Our yearly results of operations may fluctuate significantly due to the timing of our revenue recognition and our ability to accurately forecast sales, including subscription software sales and renewals.. Our revenues and other results of operations have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the foreseeable future as our Restaurant/Retail segment continues its transformation from a hardware and systems integrator to a software driven solutions provider, including offering and delivering our software as a service  -  SaaS.  As revenues from our cloud offerings increase, we may experience volatility in our reported revenues and operating results due to the differences in timing of revenue recognition between our SaaS offerings and our traditional on-premises software and hardware sales. The SaaS delivery model is subscription based; accordingly, SaaS revenues are generally recognized ratably over the life of the subscriptions. In contrast, revenue from our on-premises software and hardware sales is generally recognized in full at the time of delivery. Accordingly, the SaaS  delivery model creates certain risks related to the timing of revenue recognition not associated with our traditional on-premises delivery model. A portion of our quarterly SaaS based revenue results from the recognition of deferred revenue relating to subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. A decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any period may not be immediately reflected in our reported financial results for that period, but may result in a decline in our revenue in future quarters. If any of our assumptions about revenue from our SaaS business model prove incorrect, our actual results may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected.. Our products might experience coding or configuration errors, which could damage our reputation and deter current and potential customers from purchasing our products.. 7. Table of Contents. Although we test our products and updates prior to their release and throughout their intended life, our cloud- based and on-premises software and hardware products sometimes contain coding or configuration errors that can negatively impact their functionality, performance, operation, and integration capabilities. Coding and configuration errors can expose us to product liability, performance, warranty claims, and harm our reputation.. We are subject to cyber-attacks; we are subject to laws and regulations governing the protection of personally identifiable information, a cyber attack or a failure to comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws could harm our reputation and have an adverse effect on our business.. We collect, process, transmit, and store (on our operating systems and those of third-party providers) customer transactional data and their customers' and employees' personally identifiable information or other data.  Our operating systems, and those of our third-party providers, could become subject to cyber-attacks, including using computer viruses, credential harvesting, dedicated denial of services attacks, malware, social engineering and other means for obtaining unauthorized access to or disrupting the operation of our systems and those of our third-party providers. Any failure or interruption of our operating systems or those of our third-party providers could result in operational disruptions or misappropriation of information, including interruption of systems availability or denial of access to and misuse of applications or information required by our customers to conduct their business. Any operational disruptions or misappropriation of information could harm our relationship with our customers and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Moreover, personally identifiable information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, the intent of which is to protect the privacy, accuracy and security of personally identifiable information and personal data that is collected, processed, stored, maintained and transmitted in or from certain governing jurisdictions. Compliance with these laws and regulations, or changes in these laws and regulations, may be onerous and expensive and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, further increasing the cost of compliance. Our failure, and/or the failure by the various third party vendors and service providers with which we do business, to comply with applicable privacy and data protection laws and regulations, or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release of personally identifiable information or personal data could damage our reputation, discourage potential customers from using our products and services and/or result in fines and/or proceedings by governmental agencies and/or consumers, any one or all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If our technical and maintenance support services are not satisfactory to our customers, they may not renew their services agreements or buy future products, which could adversely affect our future results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.. Our business relies on our customers' satisfaction with the technical and maintenance support services we provide to support our products. If we fail to provide technical and maintenance support services that are responsive, satisfy our customers' expectations and resolve issues that they encounter with our products, then they may not purchase additional products or services from us in the future.. If we are unable to recruit and retain qualified employees, our business may be harmed.. Much of our future success depends on hiring qualified employees and the continued service of our senior management. Experienced personnel in the management technology industry are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense in the skill-set we require. Moreover, we believe that a critical contributor to our success is our corporate culture and values. We must successfully attract and retain qualified business, technical, product development and other employees that contribute to our business. Our failure to do so, could adversely affect our ability to innovate, to rapidly and effectively change and introduce new products, and to provide timely and effective installation, technical and maintenance support services, and our financial condition and results of operations may suffer.. The price of our common stock may be negatively impacted by factors that are unrelated to our actual operating performance.. A number of factors can impact the trading price of our common stock, many of which are outside our control. Trading in our stock does not generally occur in high volumes and the market for our stock cannot always be characterized as active. Thin trading in our stock may exaggerate fluctuations in the stock's value, leading to price volatility in excess of that which would occur in a more active trading market. In addition, the stock market in general is subject to fluctuations that affect the share prices and trading volumes of many companies, and these broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Factors that could affect our common stock price in the future include but are not necessarily limited to the following:. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition;. • the performance and prospects of our major customers;. 8. Table of Contents. • fluctuations in the trading volume of our common stock;. • the concentrated beneficial ownership of our common stock by our founder and director, Dr. John W. Sammon;. • actual or anticipated regulatory action against us;. • the lack of earnings guidance and securities analysts following us;. • investor perception of us and the industries in which we operate;. • uncertainty regarding domestic and international political conditions, including tax policies; and. • uncertainty regarding the prospects of domestic and foreign economies.. Two customers account for a significant portion of our revenues. The loss of one of these customers, or a significant reduction, delay, or cancellation of purchases by one of these customers, would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Revenues from our Restaurant/Retail segment constituted 74% and 65% of our total consolidated revenues for 2017 and 2016, respectively; and, aggregate sales to our two largest customers, which include sales to these two customers' respective franchisees - McDonald's Corporation and Yum! Brands, Inc., which consists of the Kentucky Fried Chicken, Taco Bell and Pizza Hut brands  -  constituted 33% (McDonald's) and 14% (Yum!) and 25% (McDonald's) and 11% (Yum!) of total consolidated revenues for 2017 and 2016, respectively. There were no other customers that comprised greater than 10% of our total consolidated revenues during these years. A loss of McDonald's or Yum! Brands as a customer, or a significant reduction, delay, or cancellation of orders by one of these customers would reduce our revenue and operating income and would materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. We face extensive competition in our markets, and our failure to compete effectively could result in price reductions and/or decreased demand for our products and services.. The markets for our POS software, SureCheck and hardware products are characterized by rapid technological advances, intense competition among existing and emerging competitors, evolving industry standards, emerging business, distribution and support models, disruptive technology developments, and frequent new product introductions.. While we think our POS software, SureCheck and hardware products offer competitive, innovative features and functionality, any one of these factors could create downward pressure on pricing and gross margins and could adversely affect sales to our existing customers, as well as our ability to attract and sell to new customers. Our future success will depend on our ability to anticipate and identify changes in customer needs and/or relevant technologies and to rapidly and effectively respond and improve our products, including changes in operating systems, application software and computer and communications hardware, with which our products interoperate or their performance and functionality are otherwise affected. If we fail to anticipate and/or identify changes in customer needs and/or emerging relevant technological trends, our business, results of operations and financial conditions could suffer. Additionally, any delay in the development, marketing, or launch of new products or enhancements to our existing products could result in customer attrition or impede our ability to attract new customers, causing a decline in our revenue, earnings or stock price and weakening our competitive position.. Our government contracting business has been focused on niche offerings, reflecting our expertise, primarily in the areas of Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance, systems engineering & evaluation, satellite and telecommunications services and management technology/systems services. Many of our competitors in the Government segment are larger and have substantially greater financial resources and broader capabilities in management technology. We also compete with smaller companies, many of which are designated by the government for preferential \"set aside\" treatment, that target particular segments of the government market and may have superior capabilities in a particular segment. These companies may be better positioned to obtain contracts through competitive proposals. Consequently, there are no assurances we will continue to win government contracts as a prime contractor or subcontractor, and our failure to do so, would reduce our revenue and operating income and could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. The consequence of our internal investigation could have a material adverse effect on our business and could subject us to regulatory scrutiny.. In the third quarter of 2016, our Audit Committee commenced an internal investigation into conduct at our China and Singapore offices to determine whether certain import/export and sales documentation activities were improper and in violation of  the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and other applicable laws, and certain of our policies. We voluntarily notified the SEC and the U.S. Department of Justice, or DOJ, of the internal investigation. If the SEC, DOJ, or other governmental agencies (including foreign governmental agencies) determine that violations of certain laws or regulations occurred, then we could be exposed to a broad range of civil and criminal sanctions, including injunctive relief, disgorgement, fines, penalties, modifications to our business practices, including the termination or modification of existing business relationships, the imposition of compliance programs and. 9. Table of Contents. the retention of a monitor to oversee our future compliance. While we are currently unable to predict what actions  the SEC, DOJ, or other governmental agencies (including foreign governmental agencies)  might take, or what the likely outcome of any such actions might be, or estimate the range of reasonably possible fines or penalties, such actions, fines and/or penalties could be material, resulting in a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, reputation, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations or cash flows. Even if an inquiry or investigation does not result in an adverse determination, our business, prospects, reputation, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations or cash flows could still be adversely impacted.. If we fail to maintain appropriate internal controls, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. As most recently disclosed in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2017, our management identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. While we have remedied these material weaknesses,  if we fail to maintain appropriate internal controls, our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information accurately and within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC could be adversely affected, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would cause the price of our common stock to decline, and we may be subject to investigation or sanctions by the SEC or DOJ. Any such consequence or other negative effect could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to risks associated with compliance with international laws and regulations which may harm our business. Although only 8% for both 2017 and 2016 of our total consolidated revenues were derived from sales outside of the U.S., we have operations across the globe, and our international operations subject us to a variety of risks and challenges, including:. • compliance with foreign laws and regulations, including the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, import and export control laws, tariffs, trade barriers, economic sanctions and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell our software and hardware in certain foreign markets, and the risks and costs of non-compliance with such laws and regulations, including fines, penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation;. • increased risks of unfair or corrupt business practices in certain geographies and of improper or fraudulent sales arrangements that may impact financial results and result in restatements of financial statements and irregularities in financial statements;. • reduced protection of our intellectual property rights in certain countries and practical difficulties and costs of enforcing rights abroad;. • compliance with the laws of numerous foreign taxing jurisdictions and overlapping of different tax regimes;. • uncertainty around a potential reverse or renegotiation of international trade agreements and partnerships under President Donald J. Trump's administration;. • sales and customer service challenges associated with operating in different countries;. • difficulties in receiving payments from different geographies, including difficulties associated with currency fluctuations, payment cycles, transfer of funds or collecting accounts receivable, especially in emerging markets;. • variations in economic or political conditions between each country or region;. • economic uncertainty around the world and adverse effects arising from economic interdependencies across countries and regions; and. • increased infrastructure and legal compliance costs.. A portion of Government segment revenue is derived from U.S. government contracts, which contain provisions unique to public sector customers, including the U.S. government's right to modify or terminate these contracts at any time.. In 2017 and 2016 we derived 26% and 35%, respectively, of our total consolidated revenues from contracts to provide technical expertise to government organizations and prime contractors.  In any given year, the majority of our government contracting activity is associated with the U.S. Department of Defense. Contracts with the U.S. government typically provide that such contracts are terminable, in whole or in part, at the convenience of the U.S. government. If the U.S. government terminates a contract on this basis, we would be entitled to receive payment for our allowable costs and, in general, a proportionate share of our fee or profit for work actually performed. Most U.S. government contracts are also subject to modification or termination in the event of changes in funding. As such, we may perform work prior to formal authorization, or the contract prices may be adjusted for changes in scope of work. Termination or modification of a substantial number of our U.S. government contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We perform work for various U.S. government agencies and departments pursuant to fixed-price, cost-plus fixed fee and time-and-material prime contracts and subcontracts. Approximately 55% of revenues derived from government contracts for the year. 10. Table of Contents. ended December 31, 2017, was based on fixed-price or time and  material contracts, and the balance (approximately 45% of total government revenues) was based on cost-plus fixed fee contracts. Most of our contracts are for one-year to five-year terms.. While fixed-price contracts allow us to benefit from cost savings, they also expose us to the risk of cost overruns. If the initial estimates we use for calculating the contract price are incorrect, we can incur losses on those contracts. In addition, some of our governmental contracts have provisions relating to cost controls, and audit rights and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts, then we may not realize the full benefit of the contracts. Lower earnings caused by cost overruns would have an adverse effect on our financial results.. Under time and materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. Under cost-plus fixed fee contracts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fixed fee. If our costs under either of these types of contracts were to exceed the contract ceiling, or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be reimbursed for 100% of our associated costs.  Our inability to control our costs under either a time-and-materials contract or a cost-plus fixed fee contract could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Cost over-runs also may adversely affect our ability to sustain existing programs and obtain future contract awards.. A portion of our total assets consists of goodwill and identifiable and intangible assets, which are subject to a periodic impairment analysis, a significant impairment determination in any future period could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, even without a significant loss of our revenue or increase in cash expenses attributable to such period.. Our goodwill was approximately $11.1 million at December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, and our intangibles were $12.1 million at December 31, 2017 and $11.0 million at December 31, 2016.  Identifiable intangible assets were, primarily a result of business acquisitions and internally developed capitalized software. We test our goodwill and identifiable intangible assets for impairment annually, or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate possible impairment. We describe the impairment testing process and results of this testing more thoroughly in \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.\" If we determine an impairment has occurred at any point in time, we will be required to reduce goodwill or identifiable intangible assets on our balance sheet. Additional information about our impairment testing is contained in Note 1  -  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report)."
