[1] "Item 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Our businesses involve a high degree of risk. You should consider and read carefully all of the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks, or any risk described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, actually occurs, our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In any such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect us.. OPERATING RISKS. Our operations are subject to operational hazards that could expose us to potentially significant losses.. Our operations are subject to potential operational hazards and risks inherent in refining operations, in transporting and storing crude oil and refined products, and in producing natural gas and oil. Any of these risks, such as fires, explosions, maritime disasters, security breaches, pipeline ruptures and spills, mechanical failure of equipment, and severe weather and natural disasters at our or third-party facilities could result in business interruptions or shutdowns and damage to our properties and the properties of others. A serious accident at our facilities could also result in serious injury or death to our employees or contractors and could expose us to significant liability for personal injury claims and reputational risk. Any such event or unplanned shutdown could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The volatility of crude oil prices and refined product prices and changes in the demand for such products may have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations.. Earnings and cash flows from our refining segment depend on a number of factors, including to a large extent the cost of crude oil and other refinery feedstocks which has fluctuated significantly in recent years. While prices for refined products are influenced by the price of crude oil, the constantly changing margin between the price we pay for crude oil and other refinery feedstocks and the prices we receive for refined products (\"crack spread\") also fluctuates significantly. The prices we pay and prices we receive depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including the global supply and demand for crude oil, gasoline, and other refined products, which are subject to, among other things:. • changes in the global economy and the level of foreign and domestic production of crude oil and refined products;. • availability of crude oil and refined products and the infrastructure to transport crude oil and refined products;. • local factors, including market conditions, the level of operations of other refineries in our markets, and the volume and price of refined products imported;. • threatened or actual terrorist incidents, acts of war, and other global political conditions;. • government regulations; and. • weather conditions, hurricanes, or other natural disasters.. In addition, we purchase our refinery feedstocks before manufacturing and selling the refined products. Price level changes during the period between purchasing feedstocks and selling the manufactured refined products from these feedstocks could have a significant impact on our financial results. We purchase refined products manufactured by others for sale to our customers. Price level changes during the periods between purchasing and selling these refined products could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our investment in Laramie Energy is impacted by changing commodity prices. Laramie Energy primarily sells natural gas and natural gas liquids, and adverse changes in those commodity prices would impact the value of our investment in Laramie Energy.. Instability in the global economic and political environment can lead to volatility in the cost and availability of crude oil and prices for refined products, which could adversely impact our results of operations.. Instability in the global economic and political environment can lead to volatility in the cost and availability of crude oil and in the price for refined products. This may place downward pressure on our results of operations. This is particularly true of developments in and relating to oil-producing countries, including terrorist activities, military conflicts, embargoes, internal instability, or actions or reactions of the U.S. or foreign governments in anticipation of, or in response to, such developments.  Any such events may limit or disrupt markets, which could negatively impact our ability to access global crude oil commodity flows or sell our refined products.. 21. Many of our refined products could cause serious injury or death if mishandled or misused by us or our purchasers, or if defects occur during manufacturing.. While we produce, store, transport, and deliver all of our refined products in a safe manner, many of our refined products are highly flammable or explosive and could cause significant damage to persons or property if mishandled. Defects in our products (such as gasoline or jet fuel) or misuse by us or by end purchasers could lead to fatalities or serious damage to property. We may be held liable for such occurrences which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Our business is impacted by increased risks of spills, discharges, or other releases of petroleum or hazardous substances in our refining and logistics operations and in third-party natural gas and oil production operations in which we have a working interest.. The operation of refineries, pipelines, and refined products terminals and the production of natural gas and oil is subject to increased risks of spills, discharges, or other inadvertent releases of petroleum or hazardous substances. These events could occur in connection with the operation of our refineries, pipelines, or refined products terminals, or third-party drilling and production activities in which we have a working interest or at third-party facilities that receive our wastes or by-products for treatment or disposal. If any of these events occur, or is found to have previously occurred, we could be liable for costs and penalties associated with their remediation under federal, state, and local environmental laws or common law, and could be liable for property damage to third parties caused by contamination from releases and spills. The penalties and clean-up costs that we may have to pay for releases or the amounts that we may have to pay to third parties for damages to their property, could be significant and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. We operate in and adjacent to environmentally sensitive coastal waters where tanker, pipeline, and refined product transportation and storage operations are closely regulated by federal, state, and local agencies and monitored by environmental interest groups. Operations by third-party drilling and production entities in which we have a working interest that are adjacent to navigable waters such as rivers and lakes are similarly subject to stringent regulations. Transportation and storage of crude oil and refined products over and adjacent to regulated waters involves increased risk subjecting us to the provisions of the OPA and state laws in Hawaii, Wyoming, South Dakota, and Colorado. Among other things, these laws require us and the owners of tankers that we charter to deliver crude oil to our Hawaii refinery to demonstrate in some situations the capacity to respond to a spill of up to one million barrels of oil from a tanker and up to 600 thousand barrels of oil from an above-ground storage tank adjacent to water, which we refer to as a \"Worst Case Discharge,\" to the maximum extent possible.. We and third-party drilling and production entities in which we have a working interest and the owners of tankers we charter have contracted with various spill response service companies in the areas in which we transport and store crude oil and refined products to meet the requirements of the OPA and applicable state and foreign laws. However, there may be accidents involving tankers, pipelines, railcars, or above ground storage tanks transporting or storing crude oil or refined products, and response services may not respond to a Worst Case Discharge in a manner that will adequately contain that discharge, or we may be subject to liability in connection with any unauthorized discharge. Additionally, we cannot ensure that all resources of a contracted response service company could be available for our or a chartered tanker owner's use at any given time. There are many factors that could inhibit the availability of these resources, including, but not limited to, weather conditions, governmental regulations or moratoria, or other global events. State or federal rulings could require that these resources could be diverted to respond to other events.. Our operations, including the operation of underground storage tanks, are also subject to the risk of environmental litigation and investigations which could affect our results of operations.. From time to time we have been, and presently are, subject to litigation and investigations with respect to environmental and related matters. We may become involved in further litigation or other proceedings, or we may be held responsible in any existing or future litigation or proceedings, the costs of which could be material.. We operate, and have in the past operated, fueling stations with underground storage tanks in Hawaii used primarily for storing and dispensing refined fuels. In addition, some of our fueling stations have been owned by third parties whose operation of the stations was not under our control.. Federal and state regulations and legislation govern the storage tanks and compliance with these requirements can be costly. The operation of underground storage tanks poses certain risks, including leaks. Leaks from underground storage tanks, which may occur at one or more of our fueling stations, may impact soil or groundwater and could result in fines or civil liability for us.. 22. Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to protect us from the liabilities that could arise in our business.. We carry property, casualty, business interruption, and other lines of insurance but we do not maintain insurance coverage against all potential losses. Marine vessel charter agreements do not include indemnity provisions for oil spills so we also carry marine charterer's liability insurance. We could suffer losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. Claims covered by insurance are subject to deductibles, the aggregate amount of which could be material. Insurance policies are also subject to compliance with certain conditions, the failure of which could lead to a denial of coverage as to a particular claim or the voiding of a particular insurance policy. There also can be no assurance that existing insurance coverage can be renewed at commercially reasonable rates or that available coverage will be adequate to cover future claims. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance or failure by one or more insurers to honor its coverage commitments for an insured event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We are subject to interruptions of supply and increased costs as a result of our reliance on third-party transportation of crude oil and refined products to and from our Hawaii refinery.. Our Hawaii refinery receives its crude oil via tankers and transports refined products from Oahu to Hawaii, Maui, Molokai, and Kauai via barge. In addition to environmental risks, we could experience an interruption of supply or an increased cost to deliver refined products to market if the ability of the pipelines or vessels to transport crude oil or refined products is disrupted because of accidents, governmental regulation, or third-party action. A prolonged disruption of the ability of a pipeline or vessels to transport crude oil or refined products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The financial and operating results for our refineries in Hawaii and Wyoming, including the products they refine and distribute, can each be seasonal.. The operating results of each of our refineries, including the products they refine and sell, can be seasonal. Demand for gasoline in Wyoming and South Dakota is generally higher during the summer months than during the winter months due to seasonal increases in highway traffic. Wyoming Refining's financial and operating results for the first and fourth calendar quarters may be lower than those for the second and third calendar quarters of each year as a result of this seasonality. Conversely, the demand for the products the Hawaii refinery refines and sells, and the financial and operating results for the Hawaii refinery, are often strongest in the first and fourth calendar quarters.. We rely upon certain critical information systems for the operation of our business and the failure of any critical information system, including a cyber security breach, may result in harm to our business.. We are heavily dependent on our technology infrastructure and maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. These information systems include data network and telecommunications, internet access and our websites, and various computer hardware equipment and software applications, including those that are critical to the safe operation of our refineries and our pipelines and terminals. Our retail business collects certain customer data, including credit card numbers, for business purposes. The integrity and protection of our customer, employee, and company data is critical to our business.. Our information systems are subject to damage or interruption from a number of potential sources including natural disasters, software viruses or other malware, power failures, cyber attacks, and other events. To the extent that these information systems are under our control, we have implemented measures such as virus protection software and intrusion detection systems, to address the outlined risks. However, security measures for information systems cannot be guaranteed to be failsafe. Any compromise of our data security or our inability to use or access these information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact the timely and efficient operation of our business and subject us to additional costs and liabilities, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Finally, federal legislation relating to cyber security threats could impose additional requirements on our operations.. Through Laramie Energy, we are subject to all the risks of natural gas and oil exploration and production.. Through our investment in Laramie Energy and, to a lesser extent, through our other non-operated properties, we are exposed to all the risks inherent in natural gas and oil exploration and production, including the risks that:. • we may not be able to replace production with new reserves;. • exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves;. • title to properties in which we or Laramie Energy have interest may be impaired by title defects;. • the marketability of our natural gas products depends mostly on the availability, proximity, and capacity of natural gas gathering systems, pipelines, and processing facilities, which are owned by third parties;. 23. • we have no long-term contracts to sell natural gas or oil;. • compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements could result in increased costs of operation or curtailment, delay, or cancellation of development and producing operations;. • federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays;. • changes in the demand for natural gas and oil could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations; and. • natural gas drilling and production operations require adequate sources of water to facilitate the fracturing process and the disposal of that water when it flows back to the wellbore. If we are unable to obtain adequate water supplies and dispose of the water we use or remove at a reasonable cost and within applicable environmental rules, our ability to produce natural gas commercially and in commercial quantities would be impaired.. We cannot control activities on properties we do not operate and we are unable to ensure the proper operation and profitability of these non-operated properties.. We are a non-operator with respect to our natural gas and oil properties. Consequently, we have limited ability to exercise influence over, and control the risks associated with, the operation of these properties. The success and timing of leasehold acquisition, drilling, and development activities therefore will depend upon a number of factors outside of our control, including:. • timing and amount of capital expenditures;. • expertise and diligence in adequately performing operations and complying with applicable agreements;. • financial resources;. • inclusion of other participants in drilling wells; and. • use of technology.. As a result of any of the above, or any other failure of the operator to act in ways that are in our best interest, our results of operations and financial results could be adversely affected.. Our ability to extract value from our investment in Laramie Energy is limited.. Our 42.3% ownership interest in Laramie Energy is a significant asset. However, the ability of Laramie Energy to make distributions to its owners, including us, is currently prohibited by the terms of Laramie Energy's credit facility.. Information concerning our natural gas and oil reserves is uncertain.. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and cash flows from such reserves, including factors beyond our control. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of natural gas and crude oil that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of an estimate of quantities of natural gas and crude oil reserves, or of cash flows attributable to such reserves, is a function of the available data, assumptions regarding future natural gas and crude oil prices, availability and terms of financing, expenditures for future development and exploitation activities, and engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Reserves and future cash flows may also be subject to material downward or upward revisions based upon production history, development and exploitation activities, natural gas and crude oil prices, and regulatory changes. Actual future production, revenue, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses, quantities of recoverable reserves, and value of cash flows from those reserves may vary significantly from our assumptions and estimates. In addition, reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserves and cash flows based on the same data. These uncertainties may inhibit our ability to finance development of our reserves in the future.. The estimated quantities of proved reserves and the discounted present value of future net cash flows attributable to those reserves as of December 31, 2017, included herein were prepared by independent reserve engineers in accordance with the rules of the SEC and are not intended to represent the fair market value of such reserves. As required by the SEC, the estimated discounted present value of future net cash flows from proved reserves is generally based on prices and costs on the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. In addition, the 10% discount factor the SEC requires to be used to calculate discounted future net revenues for reporting purposes is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on the cost of capital in effect from time to time and risks associated with our business and the natural gas and oil industry in general.. Under current SEC requirements, subject to limited exceptions, proved undeveloped reserves may only be booked if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years of the date of booking. This rule may limit our potential to book additional proved undeveloped reserves we own indirectly through our equity investment in Laramie Energy as Laramie Energy pursues its drilling program. Moreover, we may be required to write down our proved undeveloped reserves we own indirectly through our. 24. equity investment in Laramie Energy, or we may be required to write down previously disclosed proved undeveloped reserves, if Laramie Energy does not drill and develop those reserves within the required five-year time frame.. REGULATORY RISK. Meeting the requirements of evolving environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations including those related to climate change could adversely affect our performance.. Consistent with the experience of other U.S. refineries, environmental laws and regulations have raised operating costs and may require significant capital investments at our refineries. We may be required to address conditions that may be discovered in the future and require a response. Potentially material expenditures could be required in the future as a result of evolving environmental, health, and safety and energy laws, regulations, or requirements that may be adopted or imposed in the future, as well as work that is ongoing related to the Consent Decree. Future developments in federal and state laws and regulations governing environmental, health, and safety and energy matters are especially difficult to predict.. Currently, multiple legislative and regulatory measures to address GHG emissions (including CO2, methane, and nitrous oxides) are in various phases of consideration, promulgation, or implementation. These include actions to develop national, statewide, or regional programs, each of which could require reductions in our GHG emissions. Requiring reductions in our GHG emissions could result in increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our facilities, (ii) install new emission controls at our facilities, and/or (iii) administer and manage any GHG emissions programs, including acquiring emission credits or allotments.. Requiring reductions in our GHG emissions and increased use of renewable fuels which can be supplied by producers and marketers in other industries that supply alternative forms of energy and fuels to satisfy the requirements of our industrial, commercial, and individual customers could also decrease the demand for our refined products and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We could be held responsible in the future for decommissioning liabilities for offshore interests we no longer own.. Under state and federal law, oil and gas companies are obligated to plug and abandon (\"P&A\") a well and restore the lease to pre-operating conditions after operations cease. U.S. state and federal regulations allow the government to call upon predecessors in interest of oil and gas leases to pay for P&A, restoration, and decommissioning obligations if the current operator fails to fulfill those obligations, the costs of which could be significant. On March 23, 2016, we assigned our interests in the Point Arguello Unit offshore California to Whiting Oil and Gas Corporation; however, the federal BOEM could call upon us to fulfill the P&A obligations related to these divested assets if the then current lessee of those assets is unable to fulfill their obligations.. Renewable fuels mandates may reduce demand for the petroleum fuels we produce, which could have a material adverse effect on our business results of operations and financial condition.. The EPA has issued Renewable Fuel Standard (\"RFS\") mandates, requiring refiners such as us to blend renewable fuels into the petroleum fuels we produce and sell in the U.S. We, and other refiners subject to the RFS, may meet the RFS requirements by blending the necessary volumes of renewable fuels produced by us or purchased from third parties. To the extent that refiners will not or cannot blend renewable fuels into the products they produce in the quantities required to satisfy their obligations under the RFS program, those refiners must purchase renewable credits, referred to as RINs, to maintain compliance. To the extent that we exceed the minimum volumetric requirements for blending of renewable fuels, we generate our own RINs for which we have the option of retaining the RINs for current or future RFS compliance or selling those RINs on the open market.. Under the RFS program, the volume of renewable fuels that obligated parties are required to blend into their finished petroleum fuels increases annually over time until 2022. Our refineries are subject to compliance with the RFS mandates. On November 30, 2015, the EPA issued final volume mandates for years 2014 through 2016, which are generally lower than the corresponding statutory mandates for those years.. Existing laws, regulations or regulatory initiatives could change and, notwithstanding that the EPA's proposed volume mandates for 2014 through 2016, are generally lower than the corresponding statutory mandate for those years, the final minimum volumes of renewable fuels that must be blended with refined petroleum fuels could increase in the future. Despite a decline in RINs prices from relatively higher levels observed during mid-2013, we cannot currently predict the future prices of RINs and, thus, the expenses related to acquiring RINs in the future could increase relative to the cost in prior years. During 2017, we incurred $9.3 million and $7.7 million for RINs for our Hawaii and Wyoming refineries, respectively. We expect to incur approximately $7.0 million for RINs in 2018 for each of our refineries. Any increase in the final minimum volumes of renewable fuels that must be blended with refined petroleum fuels and/or any increase in the cost to acquire RINs has the potential to result in significant costs in connection with RFS compliance for 2018 and future years, which could be material and may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Finally, while there is no current regulatory standard that. 25. authenticates RINs that may be purchased on the open market from third parties, we believe that the RINs we purchase are from reputable sources, are valid and serve to demonstrate compliance with applicable RFS requirements. However, if this belief proves incorrect and the RINs that we purchase are not valid or in compliance with applicable RFS requirements, our financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected.. Potential legislative and regulatory actions addressing climate change could increase our costs, reduce our revenue and cash flow from natural gas and oil sales, or otherwise alter the way we conduct our business.. The EPA has issued a notice of finding and determination that emissions of CO2, methane, and other GHG present an endangerment to human health and the environment. In response, the EPA has adopted regulations under existing provisions of the federal CAA that, among other things, establish Prevention of Significant Deterioration (\"PSD\") construction and Title V operating permit program requiring reviews for GHG emissions from certain large stationary sources. Facilities required to obtain PSD permits for their GHG emissions will also be required to meet \"best available control technology\" standards, which will be established by the states or, in some instances, by the EPA on a case-by-case basis. Moreover, on December 23, 2010, the EPA entered a settlement agreement with environmental groups requiring the agency to propose by December 10, 2011 GHG New Source Performance Standards (\"NSPS\") for refineries and to finalize these rules by November 15, 2012. To date, the EPA has not completed those rulemakings and we do not know when they will be completed. In addition, the EPA has adopted rules requiring the monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources in the U.S., including petroleum refineries and certain onshore petroleum and natural gas production activities, on an annual basis. We monitor for GHG emissions at our refineries and believe we are in substantial compliance with the applicable GHG reporting requirements. Certain of the third-party drilling and production entities in which we hold a working interest also may be subject to reporting of GHG emissions in the U.S. These EPA policies and rulemakings could adversely affect our operations and restrict or delay our ability to obtain air permits for new or modified facilities.. In addition, from time to time, the U.S. Congress has considered, and may in the future consider and adopt \"cap and trade\" legislation that would establish an economy-wide cap on GHG emissions in the U.S. and would require most sources of GHG emissions to obtain emission \"allowances\" corresponding to their annual GHG emissions. For those GHG sources that are unable to meet the required limitations, such legislation could impose substantial financial burdens. Any laws or regulations that may be adopted to restrict or reduce GHG emissions would likely require us to incur increased operating costs and could have an adverse effect on demand for our production. The adoption of any legislation or regulations that limits emissions of GHG from our or such drilling and production entities' facilities, equipment, and operations could require us or such entities to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHG associated with our or such entities' operations or could adversely affect demand for the refined petroleum products that we produce or the crude oil or natural gas that such drilling and production entities in which we hold a working interest produce. Such regulations, if adopted, could increase costs of oil and natural gas operators, including Laramie Energy, in whom we have a non-operating working interest. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHG in the earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods, and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our operations, as well as on third-party drilling and production activities in which we have a non-operating working interest.. In connection with the WRC Acquisition, we will be required to undertake significant remediation and other corrective actions with respect to certain environmental matters.. In connection with the WRC Acquisition, there are several environmental conditions that will require us to undertake significant remediation efforts and other corrective actions. The Wyoming refinery is subject to a number of consent decrees, orders, and settlement agreements involving the EPA and/or the Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality, some of which date back to the late 1970s and several of which remain in effect, requiring further actions at the Wyoming refinery.. As is typical of older small refineries like the Wyoming refinery, the largest cost component arising from these various decrees relates to the investigation, monitoring, and remediation of soil, groundwater, surface water, and sediment contamination associated with the facility's historic operations. Investigative work by Wyoming Refining and negotiations with the relevant agencies as to remedial approaches remain ongoing on a number of aspects of the contamination, meaning that investigation, monitoring, and remediation costs are not reasonably estimable for some elements of these efforts. As of December 31, 2017, we have accrued $18.2 million for the well-understood components of these efforts based on current information, approximately one-third of which we expect to incur in the next five years and the remainder being incurred over approximately 30 years.. Additionally, we believe the Wyoming refinery will need to modify or close a series of wastewater impoundments in the next several years and to replace those impoundments with a new wastewater treatment system. Based on preliminary information, reasonable estimates we have received suggest costs of approximately $11.6 million to design and construct a new wastewater treatment system.. 26. Finally, among the various historic consent decrees, orders, and settlement agreements into which the Wyoming refinery has entered, there are several penalty orders associated with exceedances of permitted limits by the Wyoming refinery's wastewater discharges. Although the frequency of these exceedances appears to be declining over time, we may become subject to new penalty enforcement action in the next several years, which could involve penalties in excess of $100,000. Moreover, in November 2016 the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (\"PHMSA\") conducted an integrated inspection of the products pipeline that we acquired in the WRC Acquisition. As a result of compliance violations identified during the inspection, the Wyoming refinery was assessed a civil penalty of $279 thousand in December 2017, which was paid in January 2018.. The adoption and implementation of new statutory and regulatory requirements for derivative transactions could have an adverse impact on our ability to manage risks associated with our businesses and increase the working capital requirements to conduct these activities.. The Dodd-Frank Act, which was passed by the U.S. Congress and signed into law in July 2010, provides for new statutory and regulatory requirements for derivative transactions, including crude oil and natural gas derivative transactions. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act provides for the creation of position limits for certain derivatives transactions, as well as requiring certain transactions to be cleared on exchanges for which cash collateral will be required. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the CFTC, the SEC, and other regulators to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the Dodd-Frank Act.  The CFTC has re-proposed new rules that would place limits on positions in certain core futures and equivalent swaps contracts for or linked to certain physical commodities, subject to exceptions for certain bona fide hedging transactions. As these new position limit rules are not yet final, the impact of those provisions on us is uncertain at this time.. It is not possible at this time to predict with certainty the full effect of the Dodd-Frank Act and CFTC rules on us and the timing of such effects. The Dodd-Frank Act may require us to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements if we do not satisfy certain specific exceptions. Although we expect to qualify for the end-user exception to the clearing, trade execution, and margin requirements for swaps entered to hedge our commodity risks, the application of the requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the cost and availability of our derivatives. Depending on the rules adopted by the CFTC or similar rules that may be adopted by other regulatory bodies, we might in the future be required to provide cash collateral for our commodities derivative transactions under circumstances in which we do not currently post cash collateral. Posting of such additional cash collateral could impact liquidity and reduce our cash available for capital expenditures. A requirement to post cash collateral could therefore reduce our ability to execute transactions to reduce commodity price risk and thus protect cash flows.. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and related regulatory requirements upon our business will not be known until all of the regulations are implemented. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of crude oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to crude oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations is to lower commodity prices.. In addition, the European Union and other non - U.S. jurisdictions are implementing regulations with respect to the derivatives market. To the extent we transact with counterparties in foreign jurisdictions, we may become subject to such regulations. At this time, the impact of such regulations is not clear.. If our pipeline assets become subject to FERC regulation, or federal, state, or local regulations or policies change, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. We own and operate a crude oil gathering system and related storage facilities in Wyoming, as well as a refined products pipeline that transports product from our Wyoming refinery to a common carrier with access to Rapid City, South Dakota. We also own and operate a jet fuel storage facility and pipeline that serves Ellsworth Air Force Base in South Dakota. Under the federal Interstate Commerce Act (the \"ICA\"), there is no exemption for the gathering of crude oil or refined products. Whether a crude oil or refined products shipment is in interstate commerce under the ICA depends on the fixed and persistent intent of the shipper as to the crude oil's or refined products' final destination, absent a break in the interstate movement. We believe that the crude oil and refined products pipelines in our gathering system meet the traditional tests the FERC has used to determine that a pipeline is not providing transportation service in interstate commerce subject to FERC ICA jurisdiction. However, the determination of the interstate or intrastate character of shipments on our crude oil and refined products pipelines depends on the shipper's intentions and the transportation of the crude oil or refined products outside of our system, and may change over time. If the FERC were to consider the status of an individual facility and the character of a crude oil or refined product shipment, and determine that the shipment is in interstate commerce, the rates for, and terms and conditions of, transportation services provided by such facility would be subject to regulation by the FERC under the ICA. Such FERC regulation could decrease revenue, increase operating costs, and, depending on the facility in question, could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, if. 27. any of our facilities were found to have provided services or otherwise operated in violation of the ICA, this could result in the imposition of administrative and criminal remedies and civil penalties, as well as a requirement to disgorge charges collected for such services in excess of the rate established by the FERC.. We may incur significant costs and liabilities resulting from performance of pipeline integrity programs and related repairs.. PHMSA has established a series of rules requiring pipeline operators to develop and implement integrity management programs for hazardous liquid pipelines that, in the event of a pipeline leak or rupture, could affect \"high consequence areas\" (\"HCAs\"), which are areas where a release could have the most significant adverse consequences, including high-population areas, certain drinking water sources, and unusually sensitive ecological areas. These regulations require operators of covered pipelines to:. •     perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity;. •     identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact an HCA;. •     improve data collection, integration, and analysis;. •     repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary; and. •     implement preventive and mitigating actions.. In addition, certain states have also adopted regulations similar to existing PHMSA regulations for intrastate gathering and transmission lines. These requirements could require us to install new or modified safety controls, pursue additional capital projects, or conduct maintenance programs on an accelerated basis, any or all of which tasks could result in us incurring increased operating costs that could be significant and have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.. Moreover, changes to pipeline safety laws by Congress and regulations by PHMSA that result in more stringent or costly safety standards could have a significant adverse effect on us and similarly situated operators. For instance, in January 2017, PHMSA finalized new regulations for hazardous liquid pipelines that significantly extend and expand the reach of certain PHMSA integrity management requirements (i.e., periodic assessments, repairs, and leak detection), regardless of the pipeline's proximity to an HCA. The final rule also requires all pipelines in or affecting an HCA to be capable of accommodating in-line inspection tools within the next 20 years. In addition, the final rule extends annual and accident reporting requirements to gravity lines and all gathering lines and also imposes inspection requirements on pipelines in areas affected by extreme weather events and natural disasters, such as hurricanes, landslides, floods, earthquakes, or other similar events that are likely to damage infrastructure. The timing for implementation of this rule is uncertain at this time due to the recent change in U.S. Presidential administrations. The safety enhancement requirements and other provisions of the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011, as well as any implementation of PHMSA rules thereunder, could require us to install new or modified safety controls, pursue additional capital projects, or conduct maintenance programs on an accelerated basis, any or all of which tasks could result in our incurring increased operating costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.. BUSINESS RISKS. The locations of our refineries and related assets in the Hawaiian Islands and in Newcastle, Wyoming, create an exposure to the risks of the local economies in which we operate and other local adverse conditions. Additionally, the location of our Hawaii refinery creates the risk of lower margins should the supply/demand balance change in the Hawaiian Islands requiring that we deliver refined products to customers outside of the region.. Because of the locations of our two refineries in Hawaii and Wyoming, we primarily market our refined products in relatively limited geographic areas. As a result, we are more susceptible to regional economic conditions than the operations of more geographically diversified competitors and any unforeseen events or circumstances that affect our operating area could also materially adversely affect our revenues and our business and operating results. These factors include, among other things, changes in the economy, weather conditions, demographics and population, increased supply of refined products from competitors, and reductions in the supply of crude oil.. Additionally, should the supply and demand balance shift in Hawaii, resulting in supply on the islands exceeding demand, we may have to deliver refined products to customers off-island. These sales generally result in lower margins to us relative to on-island sales given the higher cost of freight and typically lower price points.. 28. We must make substantial capital expenditures at our refineries and related assets to maintain their reliability and efficiency. If we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs or in a timely manner, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be adversely affected.. Our refineries and related assets have been in operation for many years. Equipment, even if properly maintained, may require significant capital expenditures and expenses to keep the refineries operating at optimum efficiency. These costs do not result in increases in unit capacities, but rather are focused on trying to maintain safe, reliable operations.. Delays or cost increases related to the engineering, procurement, and construction of new facilities, or improvements and repairs to our existing facilities and equipment, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Such delays or cost increases may arise as a result of unpredictable factors in the marketplace, many of which are beyond our control, including:. • denial or delay in obtaining regulatory approvals and/or permits;. • difficulties in executing the capital projects;. • unplanned increases in the cost of equipment, materials, or labor;. • disruptions in transportation of equipment and materials;. • severe adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires, or spills) affecting our facilities, or those of our vendors and suppliers;. • shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages;. • market-related increases in a project's debt or equity financing costs; and/or. • non-performance or force majeure by, or disputes with, our vendors, suppliers, contractors, or sub-contractors.. Any one or more of these occurrences noted above could have a significant impact on our business. If we are unable to make up the delays or to recover the related costs, or if market conditions change, it could materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.. If we are unable to obtain our crude oil supply for our Hawaii refinery without the benefit of our Supply and Offtake Agreements with J. Aron, the capital required to finance our crude oil supply could negatively impact our liquidity.. All of the crude oil delivered at our Hawaii refinery is subject to our Supply and Offtake Agreements with J. Aron. If we are unable to obtain our crude oil supply for our Hawaii refinery outside these agreements, our exposure to crude oil pricing risks may increase as the number of days between when we pay for the crude oil and when the crude oil is delivered to us increases. Such increased exposure could negatively impact our liquidity position due to the increase in working capital used to acquire crude oil inventory for our Hawaii refinery.. The ongoing work related to the Consent Decree subjects us to risks associated with engineering, procurement, and construction of improvements and repairs to our facilities, related penalties and fines, and the performance of equipment, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. On July 18, 2016, PHR and subsidiaries of Tesoro entered into the Consent Decree. As a result of the Consent Decree, PHR expanded its previously-announced 2016 Hawaii refinery turnaround to undertake additional capital improvements to reduce emissions of air pollutants and to provide for certain NOx and SO2 emission controls and monitoring required by the Consent Decree. Although the turnaround was completed during the third quarter of 2016, work related to the Consent Decree is ongoing. This work subjects us to risks associated with engineering, procurement, and construction of improvements and repairs to our facilities and related penalties and fines to the extent applicable deadlines under the Consent Decree are not satisfied, as well as risks related to the performance of equipment required by, or affected by, the Consent Decree. Each of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Our arrangement with J. Aron exposes us to J. Aron-related credit and performance risk.. We have Supply and Offtake Agreements with J. Aron, pursuant to which J. Aron will intermediate crude oil supplies and refined product inventories at our Hawaii refinery. J. Aron will own all of the crude oil in our tanks and substantially all of our refined product inventories prior to our sale of the inventories. Upon termination of the Supply and Offtake Agreements, which may be terminated by J. Aron as early as May 31, 2021, we are obligated to repurchase all crude oil and refined product inventories then owned by J. Aron and located at the specified storage facilities at then current market prices. Relying on J. Aron's ability to honor its supply and offtake obligations exposes us to J. Aron's credit and business risks. An adverse change in J. Aron's business, results of operations, liquidity, or financial condition could adversely affect its ability to perform its obligations, which could consequently have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or liquidity and, as a result, our business and operating results. In addition, we may be required to use substantial capital to repurchase crude oil and refined product inventories. 29. from J. Aron upon termination of the agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.. Our retail business is vulnerable to risks including changes in consumer preferences and economic conditions, competitive environment, supplier concentration, and other trends and factors that could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our retail business is subject to changes in consumer preferences, national, regional, and local economic conditions, demographic trends, and consumer confidence in the economy. Factors such as traffic patterns, weather conditions, local demographics, and the number and locations of competing fueling stations and convenience stores also affect the performance of our retail stores. Adverse changes in any of these trends or factors could reduce our retail customer traffic or sales, or impose limits on our pricing that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We cannot be certain that our net operating loss tax carryforwards will continue to be available to offset our tax liability.. As of December 31, 2017, we estimated that we had approximately $1.6 billion of net operating loss tax carryforwards (\"NOLs\"). In order to utilize the NOLs, we must generate taxable income that can offset such carryforwards. The availability of NOLs to offset taxable income would be substantially reduced or eliminated if we were to undergo an \"ownership change\" within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"). We will be treated as having had an \"ownership change\" if there is more than a 50% increase in stock ownership during any three year \"testing period\" by \"5% shareholders.\". In order to help us preserve our NOLs, our certificate of incorporation contains stock transfer restrictions designed to reduce the risk of an ownership change for purposes of Section 382 of the Code. We expect that the restrictions will remain in place for the foreseeable future. We cannot assure you, however, that these restrictions will prevent an ownership change.. Our ability to utilize our NOLs to offset future taxable income is subject to various limitations, including that the NOLs will expire in various amounts, if not used, between 2027 through 2036. The Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") has not audited any of our tax returns for any of the years during the carryforward period, including those returns for the years in which the losses giving rise to the NOLs were reported. We cannot assure you that we would prevail if the IRS were to challenge the availability of the NOLs. If the IRS were successful in challenging our NOLs, all or some portion of the NOLs would not be available to offset any future consolidated income which would negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows.. Recent changes in United States federal income tax law may have an adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations, or financial condition overall.. The final version of the tax reform bill signed into law on December 22, 2017 (the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\") may affect our results of operations and financial condition. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, among other things, contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including (a) a reduction of the corporate tax rate from a top marginal rate of 35% to a flat rate of 21%, (b) limitation of the tax deduction for net interest expense to 30% of adjusted earnings (except for certain small businesses), (c) limitation of the deduction for net operating losses to 80% of current year taxable income and elimination of net operating loss carrybacks, in each case, for losses arising in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 (though any such net operating losses may be carried forward indefinitely), and (d) the repeal of the domestic production activities deduction.  From a financial statement point of view, we have adjusted our deferred tax assets in accordance with the new statutory corporate income tax rate (the net operating losses giving rise to such deferred tax assets remain subject to the 20 year carry forward limitation although such losses are not subject to the 80% of current year taxable income limitation described above). Given the scope of this law and the potential interdependency of its changes, it is difficult at this time to assess the overall effect of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, but such changes may adversely impact our financial results.. Certain federal income and excise taxes could change under future legislation.. In past years, legislation has been proposed that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to U.S. tax laws, including to certain key U.S. federal income tax provisions currently available to companies in the energy industry. Congress could consider, and could include, some or all of these proposals as part of future tax reform legislation, including increases in certain fuel excise taxes or enacting proposed carbon taxes. The passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any similar changes in U.S. federal tax laws could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. Inadequate liquidity could materially and adversely affect our business operations in the future.. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our obligations, we may be forced to reduce our capital expenditures, seek additional equity or debt capital, or restructure our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be affected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our liquidity is constrained by our need to satisfy our. 30. obligations under our debt agreements and our Supply and Offtake Agreements. The availability of capital when the need arises will depend upon a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include general economic and financial market conditions, the crack spread, natural gas and crude oil prices, our credit ratings, interest rates, market perceptions of us or the industries in which we operate, our market value, and our operating performance. We may be unable to execute our long-term operating strategy if we cannot obtain capital from these or other sources when the need arises.. Our ability to generate cash and repay our indebtedness or fund capital expenditures depends on many factors beyond our control and any failure to do so could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our ability to fund future capital expenditures and repay our indebtedness when due will depend on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, borrowings under our debt agreements, and distributions from our subsidiaries. To a certain extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, and regulatory conditions and other factors that are beyond our control, including the crack spread and the prices we receive for our natural gas and crude oil production.. We cannot assure you that our businesses will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that our subsidiaries can or will make sufficient distributions to us, or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to repay our indebtedness or fund our other liquidity needs. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our needs, we may be forced to reduce our planned capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital, or restructure our debt. We cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be affected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which could cause us to default on our obligations and could impair our liquidity.. Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition.. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which requires significant interest payments. As of December 31, 2017, we had $384.8 million of indebtedness, and Interest expense and financing costs, net for the year ended December 31, 2017 was $31.6 million.. Our substantial level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following:. • we must use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on our indebtedness and obligations under the Supply and Offtake Agreements, which reduces funds available to us for other purposes, such as working capital, capital expenditures, other general corporate purposes, and potential acquisitions;. • our ability to refinance such indebtedness or to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or general corporate purposes may be impaired;. • our leverage may be greater than that of some of our competitors, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage and reduce our flexibility in responding to current and changing industry and financial market conditions;. • we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business; and. • we may be unable to comply with financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt agreements, some of which require us to maintain specified financial ratios and limit our ability to incur additional debt and sell assets, which could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, would have an adverse effect on our business and prospects and could result in bankruptcy.. Our ability to meet expenses, to remain in compliance with the covenants under our debt agreements, and to make future principal and interest payments in respect of our debt depends on, among other things, our operating performance, competitive developments, and financial market conditions, all of which are significantly affected by financial, business, economic and other factors. We are not able to control many of these factors. If industry and economic conditions deteriorate, our cash flow may not be sufficient to allow them to pay principal and interest on our debt and meet our other obligations.. Despite our current debt levels, we may still incur substantially more debt or take other actions which would intensify the risks associated with our substantial leverage.. Despite our current consolidated debt levels, we may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Although our debt agreements contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness and entering into certain types of other transactions, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions. Additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. These restrictions also do not prevent us or our subsidiaries from incurring obligations, such as trade payables, that do not constitute indebtedness as defined under our debt agreements. To the extent new debt is added to our current debt levels, the substantial leverage risks associated with our indebtedness would increase.. 31. Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to pay our substantial debt.. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on, or to refinance our indebtedness depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive, and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not continue in the future to generate cash flow from operations that is sufficient to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt, or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations.. Our debt agreements impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us.. Our debt agreements impose, and the terms of any future debt may impose, significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions, among other things, may limit our ability to:. • pay dividends or distributions, repurchase equity, prepay junior debt, and make certain investments;. • incur additional debt or issue certain disqualified stock and preferred stock;. • sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries;. • incur liens on assets;. • merge or consolidate with another company or sell all or substantially all assets;. • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and. • enter into agreements that would restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to the Issuers.. All of these covenants may adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, meet or otherwise address our capital needs, pursue business opportunities, react to market conditions, or otherwise restrict activities or business plans. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default in respect of the related indebtedness. If a default occurs, the requisite lenders could elect to declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable and proceed against any collateral securing that indebtedness. If repayment of our indebtedness is accelerated as a result of such default, we cannot assure you that they would have sufficient assets or access to credit to repay such indebtedness.. We may incur losses and incur additional costs as a result of our forward-contract activities and derivative transactions.. We enter into derivative contracts from time to time primarily to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and in the price of crude oil and refined products. If the instruments we use to hedge our exposure are not effective, or if our counterparties are unable to satisfy their obligations to us, we may incur losses. The risk of counterparty default is heightened in a poor economic environment. We may also be required to incur additional costs in connection with future regulation of derivative instruments to the extent such regulation is applicable to us. Additionally, our commodity derivative activities may produce significant period-to-period earnings volatility that is not necessarily reflective of our underlying operational performance.. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.. We are subject to interest rate risk in connection with borrowings under certain of our debt agreements, which bear interest at variable rates. Interest rate changes will not affect the market value of indebtedness incurred under such debt agreements, but could affect the amount of our interest payments and, accordingly, our future earnings and cash flows, assuming other factors are held constant. A significant increase in prevailing interest rates that results in a substantial increase in the interest rates applicable to our indebtedness could substantially increase our interest expense and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact our ability to incur indebtedness for acquisitions or other purposes.. We have historically incurred indebtedness to fund our acquisitions and other working capital needs. Interest rates may increase in the future and, as a result, interest rates on future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. A rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact, as a result of such increased financing costs, on our ability to incur indebtedness for acquisitions or other purposes.. 32. We may be unable to successfully identify, execute, or effectively integrate future acquisitions, which may negatively affect our results of operations.. We will continue to pursue acquisitions in the future. Although we regularly engage in discussions with, and submit proposals to, acquisition candidates, suitable acquisitions may not be available in the future on reasonable terms. If we do identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may be unable to successfully negotiate the terms of an acquisition, finance the acquisition, or, if the acquisition occurs, effectively integrate the acquired business into our existing businesses. Negotiations of potential acquisitions and the integration of acquired business operations may require a disproportionate amount of management's attention and our resources. Even if we complete additional acquisitions, continued acquisition financing may not be available or available on reasonable terms, any new businesses may not generate the anticipated level of revenues, the anticipated cost efficiencies, or synergies may not be realized, and these businesses may not be integrated successfully or operated profitably. Our inability to successfully identify, execute, or effectively integrate future acquisitions may negatively affect our results of operations.. We may be unable to compete effectively with larger companies for acquisitions, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations, and financial condition.. The industries in which we operate are intensely competitive and we compete with other companies that have greater resources than we have. Our ability to acquire additional businesses or properties in the future will be dependent upon our ability to evaluate and select suitable businesses or properties for acquisition and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Many of our larger competitors have refining operations, market petroleum, and other products and explore for and produce natural gas and crude oil on a regional, national, or worldwide basis. These companies may be able to pay more for acquisition targets, or evaluate or bid for and purchase a greater number of acquisition targets, than our resources permit. Our inability to compete effectively with larger companies for acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Acquisitions may prove to be worth less than we paid because of uncertainties in evaluating potential liabilities.. Our recent growth is due in large part to acquisitions, such as the acquisitions of PHR, Mid Pac, and Wyoming Refining. We expect acquisitions to be instrumental to our future growth. Successful acquisitions require an assessment of a number of factors, including estimates of potential unknown and contingent liabilities. Such assessments are inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain. In connection with our assessments, we perform due diligence reviews of acquired businesses and assets that we believe are generally consistent with industry practices. However, such reviews will not reveal all existing or potential problems. In addition, our reviews may not permit us to become sufficiently familiar with potential environmental problems or other contingent and unknown liabilities that may exist or arise. As a result, there may be unknown and contingent liabilities related to acquired businesses and assets of which we are unaware. We could be liable for unknown obligations relating to acquisitions for which indemnification is not available, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and cash flows.. Both of our refineries are scheduled for maintenance turnarounds in the next few years that will involve significant expenditures.. Wyoming Refining expects to perform a significant maintenance turnaround during 2019 and 2020 and our refinery in Hawaii is scheduled to undergo a significant maintenance turnaround between 2019 and 2020. During a turnaround, all or a portion of each refinery's production may be halted or disrupted. Any turnaround, if unsuccessful or delayed, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. In addition, both of our refineries may require additional unscheduled down time for unanticipated maintenance or repairs that are more frequent than our scheduled turnarounds. Refinery operations may also be disrupted by external factors such as a suspension of feedstock deliveries or an interruption of electricity, natural gas, water treatment, or other utilities. Other potentially disruptive factors include natural disasters, severe weather conditions, workplace or environmental accidents, interruptions of supply, work stoppages, losses of permits or authorizations, or acts of terrorism. Disruptions to our refining operations could reduce our revenues during the period of time that our processing units are not operating.. The pending CHS Acquisition may not close as anticipated.. The CHS Acquisition is expected to close in the first quarter of 2018, subject to the satisfaction of certain customary closing conditions. If these conditions are not satisfied or waived, the CHS Acquisition will not be consummated. Certain of the conditions that remain to be satisfied include, but are not limited to:. • the continued accuracy of the representations and warranties contained in the CHS Acquisition Agreement;. • the performance by each party of its obligations under the CHS Acquisition Agreement;. • the absence of any decree, order, injunction, ruling, or judgment that prohibits the CHS Acquisition or makes the CHS Acquisition unlawful;. 33. • the obtaining of certain third-party consents required for the consummation of the CHS Acquisition;. • the absence of a material adverse effect on the CHS Station Properties; and. • the execution of certain agreements related to the consummation of the CHS Acquisition.. In addition, we and CHS Inc. can mutually agree to terminate the CHS Acquisition Agreement without completing the CHS Acquisition. Further, we or CHS Inc. can unilaterally terminate the CHS Acquisition Agreement without the other party's agreement and without completing the CHS Acquisition upon the occurrence of certain events.. The CHS Acquisition Agreement further provides that in certain events some of the retail gasoline and convenience store facilities that are subject to the CHS Acquisition Agreement will be excluded from the CHS Station Properties.  If any such events occur, it is possible that the CHS Acquisition will close but that we will acquire fewer CHS Station Properties than we anticipated upon entry into the CHS Acquisition Agreement, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to realize all of the expected benefits of the CHS Acquisition.. We cannot assure you that the pending CHS Acquisition will close on our expected timeframe, or at all, or close without material adjustment.. We may fail to successfully integrate the CHS Station Properties with our existing business in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows, or fail to realize all of the expected benefits of the CHS Acquisition, which could negatively impact our future results of operations.. Integration of the CHS Station Properties with our existing business will be a complex, time-consuming, and costly process, particularly given that the CHS Acquisition will diversify the geographic areas in which we operate. A failure to successfully integrate the CHS Station Properties with our existing business in a timely manner may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. The difficulties of combining the acquired retail properties include, among other things:. • operating a larger combined organization and adding operations;. • difficulties in the assimilation of the acquired assets and operations;. • the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns;. • integrating personnel from diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures;. • managing relationships with new customers and suppliers for whom we have not previously provided products or services;. • an inability to complete other internal growth projects and/or acquisitions;. • difficulties integrating new technology systems that we have not historically used in our operations or financial reporting;. • potential environmental or regulatory compliance matters or liabilities;. • coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems, and facilities; and. • coordinating and consolidating corporate and administrative functions.. If we consummate the CHS Acquisition and if any of these risks or unanticipated liabilities or costs were to materialize, then any desired benefits of the CHS Station Properties may not be fully realized, if at all, and our future results of operations could be negatively impacted. In addition, the CHS Station Properties may actually perform at levels below the forecasts we used to evaluate the CHS Station Properties, due to factors that are beyond our control. If the CHS Station Properties perform at levels below the forecasts we used to evaluate the CHS Station Properties, then our future results of operations could be negatively impacted.. Flaws in our ongoing due diligence in connection with the CHS Acquisition could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We conducted limited due diligence in connection with the CHS Acquisition prior to signing the CHS Acquisition Agreement and are continuing to conduct due diligence during the period between the signing and closing of the CHS Acquisition. Intensive due diligence is time consuming and expensive due to the operations, accounting, finance, and legal professionals who must be involved in the due diligence process and the fact that such efforts do not always lead to a consummated transaction. Diligence may not reveal all material issues that may affect a particular CHS Station Property. In addition, factors outside of our control may later arise. If, during the diligence process, we fail to identify issues specific to a CHS Station Property or its operations, we may be forced to later write down or write off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in other reporting losses. In addition, charges of this nature may cause us to violate net worth or other covenants to which we may become subject if we obtain debt financing. We cannot assure you that we will not have to take write-downs or write-offs in connection with the acquisitions of certain of the assets and assumption of certain liabilities of the CHS Station Properties, which could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operation following closing.. 34. If our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings.. Under GAAP, we review our intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered when determining if the carrying value of our goodwill or intangible assets may not be recoverable include a significant decline in our expected future cash flows or a sustained, significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization.. As a result of our acquisitions, we have significant goodwill and intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet. In addition, significant negative industry or economic trends, such as those that have occurred as a result of the recent economic downturn, including reduced estimates of future cash flows or disruptions to our business could indicate that goodwill or intangible assets might be impaired. If, in any period, our stock price decreases to the point where our market capitalization is less than our book value, this too could indicate a potential impairment and we may be required to record an impairment charge in that period. Our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on projections of future operating performance. We operate in highly competitive environments and projections of future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from actual results. As a result, we may incur substantial impairment charges to earnings in our financial statements should an impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets be determined resulting in an adverse impact on our results of operations.. A substantial portion of our refining workforce is unionized and we may face labor disruptions that would interfere with our operations.. As of December 31, 2017, we employed approximately 905 people, with a collective bargaining agreement covering 149 of those employees. The union ratified a four-year extension of the collective bargaining agreement on March 23, 2015. On January 13, 2016, a claim against us was brought to the NLRB alleging a refusal to bargain collectively and in good faith. Accordingly, we may not be able to prevent a strike or work stoppage in the future and any such work stoppage could cause disruptions in our business and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all acts of fraud.. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms.. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, believes that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, they cannot provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our companies have been prevented or detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by an unauthorized override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is also based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in a cost effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected.. Adverse changes in global economic conditions and the demand for transportation fuels may impact our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict.. The economic recovery from the recent recession continues to be tenuous and the risk of further significant global economic downturn remains. Further prolonged downturns or failure to recover could result in declines in consumer and business confidence and spending as well as increased unemployment and reduced demand for transportation fuels. This would adversely affect the business and economic environment in which we operate. These conditions increase the risks associated with the creditworthiness of our suppliers, customers, and business partners. The consequences of such adverse effects could include interruptions or delays in our suppliers' performance of our contracts, reductions and delays in customer purchases, delays in or the inability of customers to obtain financing to purchase our products, and bankruptcy of customers. Any of these events may adversely affect our financial condition, cash flows, and profitability.. Adverse results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect us.. We may be subject to a variety of legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of its merits, litigation may be both lengthy and. 35. disruptive to the company's operations and may cause significant expenditures and diversion of management attention. We may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could materially adversely affect our business operations or materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations should we fail to prevail in certain matters.. Competition from integrated national and international oil companies that produce their own supply of feedstocks, from importers of refined products, and from high volume retailers and large convenience store retailing operators who may have greater financial resources, could materially affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We compete with a number of integrated national and international oil companies who produce crude oil, some of which is used in their refining operations. Unlike these oil companies, we must purchase all of our crude oil from unaffiliated sources. Because these oil companies benefit from increased commodity prices, have greater access to capital, and have stronger capital structures, they are able to better withstand poor and volatile market conditions, such as a lower refining margin environment, shortages of crude oil and other feedstocks, or extreme price fluctuations.. We face strong competition in the fuel and convenience store retailing market for the sale of retail gasoline and convenience store merchandise. Our competitors include service stations operated by integrated major oil companies and well-recognized national high-volume retailers and regional large chain convenience store operators, often selling gasoline or merchandise at aggressively competitive prices.. Some of these competitors may have access to greater financial resources, which may provide them with a better ability to bear the economic risks inherent in all phases of our industry. Fundamental changes in the supply dynamics of foreign product imports could lead to reduced margins for the refined products we market, which could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our business.. Tesoro has disputed our calculation of the 2015 and 2016 earn-out amounts with respect to our acquisition of PHR and it is possible that we may be required to pay Tesoro additional amounts for such periods.. The contingent earn-out payments with respect to our acquisition of PHR from Tesoro are calculated annually for each of the years ended 2014, 2015, and 2016 with an annual limit of $20 million and an overall limit of $40 million. During 2016, we paid Tesoro a total of $16.8 million to settle the 2014 and 2015 earn-out periods. Tesoro has disputed our calculation of the 2015 and 2016 earn-out periods and has asserted that it is entitled to an additional earn-out amount of $4.3 million for the 2015 earn-out period and a total earn-out amount of $8.3 million for the 2016 earn-out period. If we and Tesoro are unable to agree on the calculation of the 2015 and 2016 earn-out amounts, the dispute will be resolved in accordance with the dispute resolution provisions set forth in the membership interest purchase agreement to determine the amounts owed, if any. It is possible that we may be required to pay Tesoro additional amounts for the disputed earn-out periods, subject to the annual and overall limits.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK. Because we have no near term plans to pay cash dividends on our common stock, investors must look solely to stock appreciation for a return on their investment in us.. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the near term. Any future determination as to the declaration and payment of cash dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on then-existing conditions, including our financial condition, results of operations, contractual restrictions, capital requirements, business prospects, and other factors that our board of directors considers relevant.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our common stock, or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline.. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover our company downgrades our common stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline.. 36. The price of our common stock historically has been volatile. This volatility may affect the price at which you could sell your common stock.. The market price for our common stock has varied between a high of $21.94 on September 29, 2017, and a low of $12.96 on January 11, 2017, during the year ended December 31, 2017. This volatility may affect the price at which you could sell your common stock. Our stock price is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to significant price and volume fluctuations in response to market and other factors; variations in our quarterly operating results from our expectations or those of securities analysts or investors; downward revisions in securities analysts' estimates; and announcement by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments.. The market for our common stock has been historically illiquid, which may affect your ability to sell your shares.. The volume of trading in our common stock has historically been low. In addition, a substantial amount of our common stock is held by two investors who have restrictions on their ability to sell the stock. The lack of substantial liquidity can adversely affect the price of our stock at a time when you might want to sell your shares. There is no guarantee that an active trading market for our common stock will develop or be maintained on the NYSE, or that the volume of trading will be sufficient to allow for timely trades. Investors may not be able to sell their shares quickly or at the latest market price if trading in our stock is not active or if trading volume is limited. In addition, if trading volume in our common stock is limited, trades of relatively small numbers of shares may have a disproportionate effect on the market price of our common stock.. Delaware law, our charter documents, and concentrated stock ownership may impede or discourage a takeover, which could reduce the market price of our common stock.. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. For example, the change in ownership limitations contained in Article 11 of our certificate of incorporation could have the effect of discouraging or impeding an unsolicited takeover proposal. In addition, our board of directors or a committee thereof has the power, without stockholder approval, to designate the terms of one or more series of preferred stock and issue shares of preferred stock. The ability of our board of directors or a committee thereof to create and issue a new series of preferred stock and certain provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could impede a merger, takeover, or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market price of our common stock.. Zell Credit Opportunities Master Fund, L.P. (\"ZCOF\") and Whitebox Advisors, LLC (\"Whitebox\"), together with their respective affiliates, each own or have the right to acquire as of March 7, 2018 approximately 28.1% and 9.6%, respectively, of our outstanding common stock. The level of their combined ownership of shares of our common stock could have the effect of discouraging or impeding an unsolicited acquisition proposal.. We may issue preferred stock with terms that could adversely affect the voting power or value of our common stock.. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designations, preferences, limitations, and relative rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could adversely impact the voting power or value of our common stock. For example, we might grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we might assign to holders of preferred stock could adversely affect the residual value of the common stock.. We may issue shares of common stock in satisfaction of general unsecured claims from our predecessor's bankruptcy that would dilute your ownership of our common stock.. In December 2011 and January 2012, Delta and its subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware, and in March 2012, obtained approval from the bankruptcy court to proceed with a plan of reorganization. Pursuant to this plan, among other things, certain allowed general unsecured claims may be paid with shares of our common stock. As of December 31, 2017, two claims totaling approximately $22.4 million remain to be resolved and we have reserved approximately $0.5 million representing the estimated value of claims remaining to be settled which are deemed probable and estimable at period end. The settlement of claims is subject to ongoing litigation and we are unable to predict with certainty how many shares will be required to satisfy all claims. Pursuant to the plan of reorganization, allowed claims are settled at a ratio of 54.4 shares per $1,000 of claim. Any issuances by us of common stock. 37. to satisfy claims would have a dilutive impact on the ownership interest of existing common stockholders and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. Future sales of our common stock could reduce our stock price and any additional capital raised by us through the sale of equity or convertible securities may dilute your ownership in us.. We are not restricted from issuing additional shares of common stock, including shares issuable pursuant to securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. We have approximately 46.3 million shares of common stock outstanding as of March 7, 2018.. Subject to the satisfaction of vesting conditions and the requirements of Rule 144 of the Securities Act, shares of our common stock registered under our equity incentive plan are available for resale immediately in the public market without restriction. In addition, subject to the change in ownership limitations contained in Article 11 of our certificate of incorporation, up to 7,722,809 shares of our common stock registered under our registration statements on Form S-3, declared effective on November 30, 2016 and December 21, 2016, are available for resale immediately in the public market without restriction.. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock."
