[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Described below are certain risks that we believe apply to our business and the industry in which we operate.  You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors in conjunction with other provided in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other public disclosure.  The risks described below highlight potential events, trends or other circumstances that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity or access to sources of financing, and consequently, the market value of our common stock.  These risks could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results.  The risks described below are those that we have identified as material and is not an exhaustive list of all the risks we face.  There may be others that we have not identified or that we have deemed to be immaterial.  All forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf are qualified by the risks described below.. Risks Related to our Business Operations. It is possible investors may lose their entire investment in the Company.. Prospective investors should be aware that if we are not successful in our endeavors, your entire investment in the Company could become worthless. Even if we are successful in identifying mineral reserves that can be commercially developed, there can be no assurances that we will generate any revenues and therefore our losses will continue.. No revenue generated from operations.. We have not generated any revenues from operations. Our net loss for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018 totaled $6,068,154. We have incurred losses in the past and we will likely continue to incur losses in the future. Even if our drilling programs identify gold, silver or other mineral reserves, there can be no assurance that we will be able to commercially exploit these resources, generate any revenues or generate sufficient revenues to operate profitably.. 6. We will require significant additional capital to continue our exploration activities, and, if warranted, to develop mining operations.. None of our projects currently have proven or probable reserves. Substantial expenditures will be required to determine if proven and probable mineral reserves exist at any of our properties, to develop metallurgical processes to extract metal, to develop the mining and processing facilities and infrastructure at any of our properties or mine sites and, in certain circumstances, to acquire additional property rights. We have spent and will be required to continue to expend significant amounts of capital for drilling, geological and geochemical analysis, assaying, and, when warranted, feasibility studies with regard to the results of our exploration. We may not benefit from these investments if we are unable to identify commercially exploitable mineralized material. If we decide to put one or more of our properties into production, we will require significant amounts of capital to develop and construct the mining and processing facilities and infrastructure required for mining operations. Our ability to obtain necessary funding for these purposes, in turn, depends upon a number of factors, including the status of the national and worldwide economy and the price of gold, silver and other precious metals. We may not be successful in obtaining the required financing, or if we can obtain such financing, such financing may not be on terms that are favorable to us. Failure to obtain such additional financing could result in delay or indefinite postponement of further exploration or development and the possible, partial or total loss of our potential interest in certain properties. Any such delay could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. We cannot be assured that any of our projects are economically feasible or that feasibility studies will accurately forecast operating results.. Our future profitability depends on the economic feasibility of our projects.  We have not completed any feasibility studies for any of our projects.  There can be no assurance that the results of a feasibility study for either the Grassy Mountain Project or the Sleeper Gold Project will be positive.  Economic feasibility depends on many factors which include estimates on production rates, revenues, operating and capital costs.  If we complete a feasibility study for any our projects and obtain financing to construct and initiate mining operations, there can be no assurance that actual operating results will not vary unfavorably from the estimates and assumptions included in the feasibility study.. We may acquire additional exploration stage properties, and we may face negative reactions if reserves are not located on acquired properties.. We may acquire additional exploration stage properties. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and complete the acquisition of such properties at reasonable prices or on favorable terms or that reserves will be identified on any properties that we acquire. We may also experience negative reactions from the financial markets if we are unable to successfully complete acquisitions of additional properties or if reserves are not located on acquired properties. These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock or our financial condition or results of operations.. Our industry is highly competitive, attractive mineral lands are scarce, and we may not be able to obtain quality properties.. We compete with many companies in the mining industry, including large, established mining companies with substantial capabilities, personnel and financial resources. There is a limited supply of desirable mineral lands available for claim staking, lease or acquisition in the United States of America where we may conduct exploration activities. We may be at a competitive disadvantage in acquiring mineral properties because we compete with these individuals and companies, many of which have greater financial resources and larger technical staffs.. Title to mineral properties can be uncertain, and we are at risk of loss of ownership of one or more of our properties. Our ability to explore and operate our properties depends on the validity of our title to that property. A significant amount of our mineral properties consist of leases of unpatented mining claims. Unpatented mining claims provide only possessory title and their validity is often subject to contest by third parties or the federal government, which makes the validity of unpatented mining claims uncertain and generally more risky. These uncertainties relate to such things as the sufficiency of mineral discovery, proper posting and marking of boundaries, assessment work and possible conflicts with other claims not determinable from public record. Since a substantial portion of all mineral exploration, development and mining in the United States now occurs on unpatented mining claims, this uncertainty is inherent in the mining industry. We have not obtained title opinions covering our entire property, with the attendant risk that title to some claims, particularly title to undeveloped property, may be defective. There may be valid challenges to the title to our property which, if successful, could impair development and/or operations.. There are no confirmed commercially mineable ore deposits on any properties from which we may derive any financial benefit.. Neither we nor any independent geologist, has confirmed commercially mineable ore deposits on any of our properties. In order to carry out additional exploration programs of any potential ore body and to place it into commercial production, we will require substantial additional funding.. 7. We have no mining operations and no history as a mining company.. We are an exploration stage mining company and have no ongoing mining operations of any kind. We have interests in mining claims which may or may not lead to production.. We have no history of earnings or cash flow from mining operations. If we are able to proceed to production, commercial viability will be affected by factors that are beyond our control such as the particular attributes of the deposit, the fluctuation in metal prices, the cost of constructing and the operation of a mine, prices and refining facilities, the availability of economic sources for energy, government regulations including regulations relating to prices, royalties, restrictions on production, quotas on exploration of minerals, as well as the costs of protection of the environment.. If our exploration costs are higher than anticipated, then our profitability will be adversely affected.. We are currently proceeding with plans to explore our mineral properties on the basis of estimated exploration costs. If our exploration costs are greater than anticipated, then we will have fewer capital resources for other expenses and losses could increase. Factors that could cause exploration costs to increase include adverse weather conditions, difficult terrain, increased government regulation and shortages of qualified personnel.. Assuming no adverse developments outside of the ordinary course of business, our exploration budget will be approximately $4.0 million for the next twelve months. Exploration will be funded by our available cash reserves and future issuances of common stock, warrants or units. Our exploration program may vary significantly from what we have budgeted depending upon the results we achieve. Even if we identify mineral reserves which have the potential to be commercially developed, we will not generate revenues until such time as we undertake mining operations. Mining operations will involve a significant capital infusion. Mining costs are speculative and dependent on a number of factors including mining depth, terrain and necessary equipment. We do not believe that we will have sufficient funds to implement mining operations without additional capital raises of debt and or equity or without a joint venture partner, of which there can be no assurance.. Our continuing reclamation obligations at our properties could require significant additional expenditures.. We are responsible for the reclamation obligations related to disturbances located on all of our properties, including the Sleeper Gold Project. We have posted a bond in the amount of the estimated reclamation obligation at the Sleeper Gold Project. Every three years, we are required to submit a mine closure plan to the BLM for the Sleeper Gold Project. Based on a review by the BLM of our mine closure plan that Paramount submitted in June 2016, the BLM determined that our existing bond was sufficient. There is a risk that any cash bond, even if increased based on the analysis and work performed to update the reclamation obligations, could be inadequate to cover the actual costs of reclamation when carried out. The satisfaction of bonding requirements and continuing reclamation obligations will require a significant amount of capital. There is a risk that we will be unable to fund these additional bonding requirements, and further, that the regulatory authorities may increase reclamation and bonding requirements to such a degree that it would not be commercially reasonable to continue exploration activities, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial performance and cash flows.. Mining operations are hazardous, raise environmental concerns and raise insurance risks.. The development and operation of a mine or mineral property involves many risks, which even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. These risks include, among other things, ground fall, flooding, environmental hazards and the discharge of toxic chemicals, explosions and other accidents. Such occurrences may result in work stoppages, delays in production, increased production costs, damage to or destruction of mines and other producing facilities, injury or loss of life, damage to property, environmental damage and possible legal liability for such damages as well. Although the Company maintains liability coverage in an amount which it considers adequate for its operations, such occurrences, against which the Company may not be able, or may elect not to insure, may result in a material adverse change in the Company's financial position. The nature of these risks is such that liabilities may exceed policy limits, in which event the Company would incur substantial uninsured losses.. There may be insufficient mineral reserves to develop any of our properties, and our estimates may be inaccurate.. There is no certainty that any expenditures made in the exploration of any properties will result in discoveries of commercially recoverable quantities of ore. Most exploration projects do not result in the discovery of commercially mineable deposits of ore and no assurance can be given that any particular level of recovery of precious metals from discovered mineralization will in fact be realized or that any identified mineral deposit will ever qualify as a commercially mineable ore body which can be legally and economically exploited. Estimates of reserves, mineral deposits and production costs can also be affected by such factors as environmental regulations and requirements, weather, environmental factors, unforeseen technical difficulties, unusual or unexpected geological formations and work interruptions. In addition, the grade of ore ultimately mined may differ from that indicated by drilling results.. 8. Short term factors relating to reserves, such as the need for orderly development of ore bodies or the processing of new or different grades, may also have an adverse effect on mining operations and on the results of operations. There can be no assurance that precious metals recovered in small scale laboratory tests will be duplicated in large scale tests under on-site production conditions. Material changes in estimated reserves, grades, stripping ratios or recovery rates may affect the economic viability of any project.. We have no proven reserves.. All of our properties are in the exploration stages only and are without known bodies of commercial ore. Development of these properties will follow only upon obtaining satisfactory exploration results. The long-term profitability of the Company's operations will be in part directly related to the cost and success of its exploration and development programs. Mineral exploration and development are highly speculative businesses, involving a high degree of risk. Few properties which are explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. There is no assurance that our mineral exploration and development activities will result in any discoveries of commercial quantities of ore. There is also no assurance that, even if commercial quantities of ore are discovered, a mineral property will be brought into commercial production. Discovery of mineral deposits is dependent upon a number of factors, not the least of which is the technical skill of the exploration personnel involved. The commercial viability of a mineral deposit once discovered is also dependent upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond the Company's control, such as the particular attributes of the deposit (such as size, grade and proximity to infrastructure), metal prices and government regulations, including regulations relating to royalties, allowable production, importing and exporting of minerals, and environmental protection.. In the course of exploration, development, and mining of mineral properties, certain unanticipated conditions may arise or unexpected or unusual events may occur, including rock bursts, cave-ins, fires, floods, or earthquakes. It is not always possible to fully insure against such risks and we may decide not to take out insurance against such risks as a result of high premiums or for other reasons.   Should such liabilities arise, they may reduce or eliminate any future profitability and may result in a decline in the value of the securities of the Company.. We face fluctuating gold and mineral prices.. The value of any mineral reserves we develop, and consequently the value of our common stock, depends significantly on the value of such minerals. The price of gold and silver as well as other precious and base metals have experienced volatile and significant price movements over short periods of time and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including international economic and political trends, expectations of inflation, interest rates, global or regional consumption patterns, speculative activities and increases in production due to improved mining and production methods. The supply of and demand for gold and silver, as well as other precious and base metals, are affected by various factors, including political events, economic conditions and production costs in major mineral producing regions.. Our estimates of mineralized material and other mineral resources are subject to uncertainty.. Estimates of mineralized material and other mineral resources are subject to considerable uncertainty. Such estimates are arrived at using standard acceptable geological techniques, and are based on the interpretations of geological data obtained from drill holes and other sampling techniques. Engineers use feasibility studies to derive estimates of cash operating costs based on anticipated tonnage and grades of ore to be mined and processed, the predicted configuration of the ore bodies, expected recovery rates of metal from ore, comparable facility and operating costs and other factors. Actual cash operating costs and economic returns on projects may differ significantly from the original estimates, primarily due to fluctuations in the current prices of metal commodities extracted from the deposits, changes in fuel costs, labor rates, changes in permit requirements, and unforeseen variations in the characteristics of the ore body. Due to the presence of these factors, there is no assurance that any geological reports will accurately reflect actual quantities of gold, silver or other metals that can be economically processed and mined by us.. If we are unable to obtain all of our required governmental permits, our operations could be negatively impacted.. Our future operations, including exploration and development activities, required permits from various governmental authorities. Such operations are and will be governed by laws and regulations governing prospecting, development, mining, production, exports, taxes, labor standards, occupational health, waste disposal, toxic substances, land use, environmental protection, mine safety and other matters. There can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire all required licenses or permits or to maintain continued operations at our properties.. 9. We are subject to numerous environmental and other regulatory requirements.. All phases of mining and exploration operations are subject to governmental regulation including environmental regulation. Environmental legislation is becoming stricter, with increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects and heightened responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. There can be no assurance that possible future changes in environmental regulation will not adversely affect our operations. As well, environmental hazards may exist on a property in which we hold an interest that was caused by previous or existing owners or operators of the properties and of which the Company is not aware at present.. Government approvals and permits are required to be maintained in connection with our mining and exploration activities. Although we believe we currently have all required permits for our operations as currently conducted, there is no assurance that delays will not occur in connection with obtaining all necessary renewals of such permits for the existing operations or additional permits for any possible future changes to the Company's operations, including any proposed capital improvement programs. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions thereunder, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities causing operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment, or remedial actions. Parties engaged in mining operations may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of the mining activities and may be liable for civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed for violations of applicable laws or regulations. Amendments to current laws, regulations and permitting requirements, or more stringent application of existing laws, may have a material adverse impact on the Company resulting in increased capital expenditures or production costs, reduced levels of production at producing properties or abandonment or delays in development of properties.. There is no assurance that there will not be title or boundary disputes.. Although we have investigated the right to explore and exploit our properties and obtained records from government offices with respect to all of the mineral claims comprising our properties, this should not be construed as a guarantee of title. Other parties may dispute the title to any of our properties or any property may be subject to prior unregistered agreements and transfers or land claims by aboriginal, native, or indigenous peoples. The title may be affected by undetected encumbrances or defects or governmental actions.. Local infrastructure may impact our exploration activities and results of operations.. Mining, processing, development and exploration activities depend, to one degree or another, on adequate infrastructure. Reliable roads, bridges, power and water supplies are important determinants that affect capital and operating costs. Unusual or infrequent weather phenomena, sabotage or government or other interference in the maintenance or provision of such infrastructure could adversely affect our activities and profitability.. Because of the speculative nature of exploration for gold and silver properties, there is substantial risk that our business will fail.. The search for precious metals as a business is extremely risky. We cannot provide any assurances that the gold or silver mining interests that we acquired will contain commercially exploitable reserves of gold or silver. Exploration for minerals is a speculative venture necessarily involving substantial risk. Any expenditure that we make may not result in the discovery of commercially exploitable reserves of precious metals.. 10. The precious metals markets are volatile markets. This will have a direct impact on our revenues (if any) and profits (if any) and could have an adverse effect on our ongoing operations.. The price of both gold and silver has fluctuated significantly over the past few years. Despite the volatility in the price of gold, there continues to be interest in gold and silver mining and companies engaged in that business, including the exploration for both gold and silver. However, in the event that the price of these metals falls, the interest in the gold and silver mining industry may decline and the value of our business could be adversely affected. Even if we are able to generate revenues, there can be no assurance that any of our operations will prove to be profitable. Finally, in recent decades, there have been periods of both overproduction and underproduction of both gold and silver resources. Such conditions have resulted in periods of excess supply of and reduced demand on a worldwide basis and on a domestic basis. These periods have been followed by periods of short supply of and increased demand for both gold and silver. We cannot predict what the market for gold or silver will be in the future.. Government regulation or changes in such regulation may adversely affect our business.. We have and will in the future engage experts to assist us with respect to our operations. We deal with various regulatory and governmental agencies and the rules and regulations of such agencies. No assurances can be given that we will be successful in our efforts or dealings with these agencies. Further, in order for us to operate and grow our business, we need to continually conform to the laws, rules and regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate. It is possible that the legal and regulatory environment pertaining to the exploration and development of precious metals mining properties will change. Uncertainty and new regulations and rules could increase our cost of doing business or prevent us from conducting our business.. We are in competition with companies that are larger, more established and better capitalized than we are.. Many of our potential competitors have greater financial and technical resources, as well as longer operating histories and greater experience in mining.. Exploration for economic deposits of minerals is speculative.. The business of mineral exploration is very speculative, since there is generally no way to recover any of the funds expended on exploration unless the existence of mineable reserves can be established. We can exploit those reserves by either commencing mining operations, selling or leasing our interest in the property or entering into a joint venture with a larger resource company that can further develop the property to the production stage. Unless we can establish and exploit reserves before our funds are exhausted, we will have to discontinue operations, which could make our stock valueless.. The loss of key members of our senior management team could adversely affect the execution of our business strategy and our financial results.. We believe that the successful execution of our business strategy and our ability to move beyond the exploratory stages depends on the continued employment of key members of our senior management team. If any members of our senior management team become unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, our financial results and our business could be materially adversely affected.. We operate in a regulated industry and changes in regulations or violations of regulations may result in increased costs or sanctions that could reduce our revenues.. Our organization is subject to extensive and complex federal and state laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with the laws and regulations that are directly applicable to our business, we could suffer civil and/or criminal penalties or be subject to injunctions or cease and desist orders. While we believe that we are currently compliant with applicable rules and regulations, if there are changes in the future, there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply in the future, or that future compliance will not significantly adversely impact our operations.. We rely on independent analysis to analyze our drilling results and planned exploration activities.. We rely on independent geologists to analyze our drilling results and to prepare resource reports on several of our mining claims. While these geologists rely on standards established by the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum, Standards on Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves and other standards established by various licensing bodies, there can be no assurance that their estimates or results will be accurate. Analyzing drilling results and estimating reserves or targeted drilling sites is not a certainty. Miscalculations and unanticipated drilling results may cause the geologists to alter their estimates. If this should happen, we would have devoted resources to areas where resources could have been better allocated.. 11. We are an \"emerging growth company\", and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors.. As an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (\"JOBS Act\"), we intend to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not \"emerging growth companies\" including not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements. Further, Section 102(b)(1) of the JOBS Act exempts emerging growth companies from being required to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards until private companies (that is, those that have not had a Securities Act registration statement declared effective or do not have a class of securities registered under the Exchange Act) are required to comply with the new or revised financial accounting standards. The JOBS Act provides that a company can elect to opt out of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements that apply to non-emerging growth companies but any such election to opt out is irrevocable. We have elected not to opt out of such extended transition period, which means that when a standard is issued or revised and it has different application dates for public or private companies, we, as an emerging growth company, can adopt the new or revised standard at the time private companies adopt the new or revised standard. This may make our financial statements not comparable with those of another public company which is neither an emerging growth company nor an emerging growth company which has opted out of using the extended transition period because of the potential differences in accounting standards used.. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive if we rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our common stock.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. We cannot be certain that our efforts to develop and maintain our internal controls will be successful, that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that we will be able to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any failure to develop or maintain effective internal controls, or difficulties encountered in implementing or improving our internal controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock.. The JOBS Act allows us to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards that have different effective dates for public and private companies.. We have elected to use the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards under Section 102(b)(1) of the JOBS Act. This election allows us to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards that have different effective dates for public and private companies until those standards apply to private companies. As a result of this election, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with public company effective dates.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Our stock price may be volatile.. The market price of our common stock has been volatile. We believe investors should expect continued volatility in our stock price. Such volatility may make it difficult or impossible for you to obtain a favorable selling price for our shares.. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future.. We have never declared or paid any dividends on our common stock. We intend to retain all of our earnings, if any, for the foreseeable future to finance the operation and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the future. As a result, you may only receive a return on your investment in our common stock if the market price of our common stock increases. Our board of directors retains discretion to change this policy.. 12. The exercise of our outstanding options and warrants may depress our stock price.. The exercise of outstanding options and warrants, and the subsequent sale of the underlying common stock in the public market, or the perception that future sales of these shares could occur, could have the effect of lowering the market price of our common stock below current levels and make it more difficult for us and our stockholders to sell our equity securities in the future.. Sales or the availability for sale of shares of common stock by stockholders could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and could impair our ability to raise capital through an offering of additional equity securities."
