[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our businesses involve a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information included in this Form 10-K, including Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. While these are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to consider, they are not the only risks or uncertainties facing us or which may adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected.. The volatility of prices for oil and natural gas has had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Oil and natural gas prices and market expectations regarding potential changes in these prices are volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Increases or decreases in oil and natural gas prices and expectations of future prices could have an impact on our customers' long-term exploration and development activities, which in turn could materially affect our business and financial performance. Furthermore, higher oil and natural gas prices do not necessarily result immediately in increased drilling activity because our customers' expectations of future oil and natural gas prices typically drive demand for our drilling services. The oil and natural gas industry has historically experienced periodic downturns, which have been characterized by diminished demand for oilfield services and downward pressure on the prices we charge. A prolonged downturn in the oil and natural gas industry could result in a further reduction in demand for oilfield services and could continue to adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The average price of oil during 2017 was well below the average prices in 2014. Oil and natural gas prices and demand for our services also depend upon numerous factors which are beyond our control, including:. • the level of supply and demand for oil and natural gas;. • the cost of exploring for, producing, and delivering oil and natural gas;. • expectations regarding future energy prices;. • advances in exploration, development, and production technology;. • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (\"OPEC\") to set and maintain production levels and prices;. • the level of production by non-OPEC countries;. • the adoption or repeal of laws and government regulations, both in the United States and other countries;. • the imposition or lifting of economic sanctions against certain regions, persons, and other entities;. • the number of ongoing and recently completed rig construction projects which may create overcapacity;. • local and worldwide military, political, and economic events, including events in the oil producing regions of Africa, the Middle East, Russia, Central Asia, Southeast Asia, and Latin America;. • weather conditions and natural disasters;. • expansion or contraction of worldwide economic activity, which affects levels of consumer and industrial demand;. • the rate of discovery of new oil and natural gas reserves;. • domestic and foreign tax policies;. • acts of terrorism in the United States or elsewhere;. • increased demand for alternative energy sources and electric vehicles, including government initiatives to promote the use of renewable energy sources and the growing public sentiment around alternatives to oil and gas; and. • the policies of various governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and natural gas reserves.. 9. Table of Contents. Demand for the majority of our services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by the oil and natural gas industry. A substantial or an extended decline in oil and natural gas prices could result in lower expenditures by the oil and natural gas industry, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Demand for the majority of our services depends substantially on the level of expenditures for the exploration, development, and production of oil or natural gas reserves by the major, independent, and national oil and natural gas E&P companies and large integrated service companies that comprise our customer base. These expenditures are generally dependent on the industry's view of future oil and natural gas prices and are sensitive to the industry's view of future economic growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. Declines in oil and natural gas prices have and may continue to result in project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in payment of, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us, any of which could continue to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Historically, when drilling activity and spending decline, utilization and dayrates also decline and drilling may be reduced or discontinued, resulting in an oversupply of drilling rigs. Sustained low oil prices have in turn caused a significant decline in the demand for drilling services over the last several years. The rig utilization rate of our International & Alaska Drilling segment has fallen to 36 percent for the year ended December 31, 2017 from 40 percent for the year ended December 31, 2016. Furthermore, operators implemented significant reductions in capital spending in their budgets, including the cancellation or deferral of existing programs, and are expected to continue to operate under reduced budgets for the foreseeable future.. We have a significant amount of debt. Our debt levels and debt agreement restrictions may have significant consequences for our future prospects, including limiting our liquidity and flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities.. As of December 31, 2017, we had:. • $585.0 million  principal amount of long-term debt;. • $18.3 million of operating lease commitments; and. • $5.7 million of standby letters of credit.. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations depends on our ability to generate positive cash flows from operations. We have in the past, and may in the future, incur negative cash flows from one or more segments of our operating activities. Our future cash flows from operating activities will be influenced by the demand for our drilling services, the utilization of our rigs, the dayrates that we receive for our rigs, demand for our rental tools, oil and natural gas prices, general economic conditions, and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control.. If we are unable to service our debt obligations, we may have to take one or more of the following actions:. • delay spending on capital projects, including maintenance projects and the acquisition or construction of additional rigs, rental tools, and other assets;. • issue additional equity;. • sell assets; or. • restructure or refinance our debt.. Additional indebtedness or equity financing may not be available to us in the future for the refinancing or repayment of existing indebtedness, or if available, such additional indebtedness or equity financing may not be available on a timely basis, or on terms acceptable to us and within the limitations specified in our then existing debt instruments. In addition, in the event we decide to sell assets, we can provide no assurance as to the timing of any asset sales or the proceeds that could be realized from any such asset sale. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness is subject to certain market conditions and other factors which are beyond our control.. Increases in the level of our debt and restrictions in the covenants contained in the instruments governing our debt could have important consequences to you. For example, they could:. • result in a reduction of our credit rating, which would make it more difficult for us to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operating activities to the repayment of our debt and the interest associated with our debt;. 10. Table of Contents. • limit our operating flexibility due to financial and other restrictive covenants, including restrictions on incurring additional debt and creating liens on our properties;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors that have relatively less debt; and. • make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business.. Our current operations and future growth may require significant additional capital, and the amount and terms of our indebtedness could impair our ability to fund our capital requirements.. Our business requires substantial capital. We may require additional capital in the event of growth opportunities, unanticipated maintenance requirements, or significant departures from our current business plan.. On February 14, 2018, we executed the Fifth Amendment (\"Fifth Amendment\") to the Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (as amended, the \"2015 Secured Credit Agreement\"), which modified the credit facility to an Asset-Based Lending (ABL) structure and reduced the size of the Revolver from $100 million to $80 million. In addition, the Fifth Amendment eliminated the financial maintenance covenants previously in effect and replaced them with a liquidity covenant of $30 million and a monthly borrowing base calculation based on eligible rental equipment and eligible domestic accounts receivable, and removed our availability to make certain restricted payments. The liquidity covenant requires the Company to maintain a minimum of $30 million of liquidity (defined as availability under the borrowing base and cash on hand), of which $15 million is restricted, resulting in a maximum availability at any one time of the lesser of (a) an amount equal to our borrowing base minus $15 million, or (b) $65 million.. Additional financing may not be available on a timely basis or on terms acceptable to us and within the limitations contained in the 2015 Secured Credit Agreement and the indentures governing our outstanding 7.50% Senior Notes due 2020 (\"7.50% Notes\") and 6.75% Senior Notes due 2022 (\"6.75% Notes\", and collectively with the 7.50% Notes, the \"Senior Notes\"). Failure to obtain additional financing, should the need for it develop, could impair our ability to fund capital expenditure requirements and meet debt service requirements and could have an adverse effect on our business.. Our 2015 Secured Credit Agreement and the indentures for our Senior Notes impose significant operating and financial restrictions, which may prevent us in the future from obtaining financing or capitalizing on business opportunities.. The 2015 Secured Credit Agreement, the amendments thereto, and the indentures governing our Senior Notes impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability to:. • make investments and other restricted payments, including dividends;. • incur additional indebtedness;. • create liens;. • engage in sale leaseback transactions;. • repurchase our common stock or Senior Notes;. • sell our assets or consolidate or merge with or into other companies; and. • engage in transactions with affiliates.. These limitations are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions.. The 2015 Secured Credit Agreement also includes a liquidity covenant of $30 million and a monthly borrowing base calculation based on eligible rental equipment and eligible domestic accounts receivable. The liquidity covenant requires the Company to maintain a minimum of $30 million of liquidity (defined as availability under the borrowing base and cash on hand), of which $15 million is restricted, resulting in a maximum availability at any one time of $65 million. These covenants may adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations and capital needs and to pursue available business opportunities.. A breach of any of the covenants in the 2015 Secured Credit Agreement or in the Senior Notes could result in a default with respect to the related indebtedness. If a default were to occur, the lenders under our 2015 Secured Credit Agreement and the holders of our Senior Notes could elect to declare the indebtedness, if any outstanding at that time, together with accrued interest, immediately due and payable. If the repayment of the indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness.. 11. Table of Contents. Our backlog of contracted revenues may not be fully realized and may reduce significantly in the future, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.. Our expected revenues under existing contracts (\"contracted revenues\") may not be fully realized due to a number of factors, including rig or equipment downtime or suspension of operations. Several factors could cause downtime or a suspension of operations, many of which are beyond our control, including:. • breakdowns of our equipment or the equipment of others necessary for continuation of operations;. • work stoppages, including labor strikes;. • shortages of material and skilled labor;. • severe weather or harsh operating conditions;. • the occurrence or threat of epidemic or pandemic diseases or any government response to such occurrence or threat;. • the early termination of contracts; and. • force majeure events.. Liquidity issues could lead our customers to go into bankruptcy or could encourage our customers to seek to repudiate, cancel, or renegotiate our contracts for various reasons. Some of our contracts permit early termination of the contract by the customer for convenience (without cause), generally exercisable upon advance notice to us and in some cases without making an early termination payment to us. There can be no assurance that our customers will be able or willing to fulfill their contractual commitments to us.. Significant declines in oil prices, the perceived risk of low oil prices for an extended period, and the resulting downward pressure on utilization may cause some customers to consider early termination of select contracts despite having to pay early termination fees in some cases. In addition, customers may request to re-negotiate the terms of existing contracts. Furthermore, as our existing contracts roll off, we may be unable to secure replacement contracts for our rigs, equipment or services. We have been in discussions with some of our customers regarding these issues.  Therefore, revenues recorded in future periods could differ materially from our current contracted revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.. Certain of our contracts are subject to cancellation by our customers without penalty and with little or no notice.. In periods of extended market weakness similar to the current environment, our customers may not be able to honor the terms of existing contracts, may terminate contracts even where there may be onerous termination fees, or may seek to renegotiate contract dayrates and terms in light of depressed market conditions. Certain of our contracts are subject to cancellation by our customers without penalty and with relatively little or no notice. Significant declines in oil prices, the perceived risk of low oil prices for an extended period, and the resulting downward pressure on utilization and may cause some customers to consider early termination of select contracts despite having to pay early termination fees in some cases. When drilling market conditions are depressed, a customer may no longer need a rig or rental tools currently under contract or may be able to obtain comparable equipment at lower dayrates. Further, due to government actions, a customer may no longer be able to operate in, or it may not be economical to operate in, certain regions. As a result, customers may leverage their termination rights in an effort to renegotiate contract terms.. Our customers may also seek to terminate contracts for cause, such as the loss of or major damage to the drilling unit or other events that cause the suspension of drilling operations beyond a specified period of time.  If we experience operational problems or if our equipment fails to function properly and cannot be repaired promptly, our customers will not be able to engage in drilling operations and may have the right to terminate the contracts. If equipment is not timely delivered to a customer or does not pass acceptance testing, a customer may in certain circumstances have the right to terminate the contract. The payment of a termination fee may not fully compensate us for the loss of the contract. Early termination of a contract may result in a rig or other equipment being idle for an extended period of time. The likelihood that a customer may seek to terminate a contract is increased during periods of market weakness. The cancellation or renegotiation of a number of our contracts could materially reduce our revenues and profitability.. Service contracts with national oil companies may expose us to greater risks than we normally assume in service contracts with non-governmental customers.. 12. Table of Contents. We currently provide services and own rigs and other equipment that may be used in connection with projects involving national oil companies. In the future, we may expand our international operations and enter into additional, significant contracts or subcontracts relating to projects with national oil companies. The terms of these contracts may require us to resolve disputes in jurisdictions with less robust legal systems and may contain non-negotiable provisions and may expose us to greater commercial, political, environmental, operational, and other risks than we assume in other contracts. These contracts may also expose us to materially greater environmental liability and other claims for damages (including consequential damages) and personal injury related to our operations, or the risk that the contract may be terminated by our customer without cause on short-term notice, contractually or by governmental action, or under certain conditions that may not provide us with an early termination payment. We can provide no assurance that increased risk exposure will not have an adverse impact on our future operations or that we will not increase the number of rigs or amount of equipment and services contracted to national oil companies with commensurate additional contractual risks. Risks that accompany contracts relating to projects with national oil companies could ultimately have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operation.. We derive a significant amount of our revenues from a few major customers.   The loss of a significant customer could adversely affect us.. A substantial percentage of our revenues are generated from a relatively small number of customers and the loss of a significant customer could adversely affect us.  In 2017, our largest customer, ENL, accounted for approximately 31.3 percent of our consolidated revenues. In 2017, our second largest customer, BP, constituted approximately 9.7 percent of our consolidated revenues. Our consolidated results of operations could be adversely affected if any of our significant customers terminate their contracts with us, fail to renew our existing contracts, or do not award new contracts to us.. A slowdown in economic activity may result in lower demand for our drilling and drilling related services and rental tools business, and could have a material adverse effect on our business.. A slowdown in economic activity in the United States or abroad could lead to uncertainty in corporate credit availability and capital market access and could reduce worldwide demand for energy and result in lower crude oil and natural gas prices. Concerns about global economic conditions have had a significant adverse impact on domestic and international financial markets and commodity prices, including oil and natural gas. Likewise, economic conditions in the United States or abroad could impact our vendors' and suppliers' ability to meet obligations to provide materials and services in general. All of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. The contract drilling and the rental tools businesses are highly competitive and cyclical, with intense price competition.. The contract drilling and rental tools markets are highly competitive and many of our competitors in both the contract drilling and rental tools businesses may possess greater financial resources than we do. Some of our competitors also are incorporated in countries that may provide them with significant tax advantages that are not available to us as a U.S. company and which may impair our ability to compete with them for many projects.. Contract drilling companies compete primarily on a regional basis, and competition may vary significantly from region to region at any particular time. Many drilling and workover rigs can be moved from one region to another in response to changes in levels of activity, provided market conditions warrant, which may result in an oversupply of rigs in an area. Many competitors construct rigs during periods of high energy prices and, consequently, the number of rigs available in some of the markets in which we operate can exceed the demand for rigs for extended periods of time, resulting in intense price competition. Most drilling contracts are awarded on the basis of competitive bids, which also results in price competition. Historically, the drilling service industry has been highly cyclical, with periods of high demand, limited equipment supply and high dayrates often followed by periods of low demand, excess equipment supply and low dayrates. Periods of low demand and excess equipment supply intensify the competition in the industry and often result in equipment being idle for long periods of time. During periods of decreased demand we typically experience significant reductions in dayrates and utilization. The Company, or its competition, may move rigs or other equipment from one geographic location to another location; the cost of which may be substantial. If we experience further reductions in dayrates or if we cannot keep our equipment utilized, our financial performance will be adversely impacted. Prolonged periods of low utilization and dayrates could result in the recognition of impairment charges on certain of our rigs if future cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that the carrying value of these rigs may not be recoverable.. Rig upgrade, refurbishment and construction projects are subject to risks and uncertainties, including delays and cost overruns, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows.. We regularly make significant expenditures in connection with upgrading and refurbishing our rig fleet. These activities include planned upgrades to maintain quality standards, routine maintenance and repairs, changes made at the request of customers,. 13. Table of Contents. and changes made to comply with environmental or other regulations. Rig upgrade, refurbishment, and construction projects are subject to the risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project, including the following:. • shortages of equipment or skilled labor;. • unforeseen engineering problems;. • unanticipated change orders;. • work stoppages;. • adverse weather conditions;. • unexpectedly long delivery times for manufactured rig components;. • unanticipated repairs to correct defects in construction not covered by warranty;. • failure or delay of third-party equipment vendors or service providers;. • unforeseen increases in the cost of equipment, labor or raw materials, particularly steel;. • disputes with customers, shipyards or suppliers;. • latent damages or deterioration to hull, equipment and machinery in excess of engineering estimates and assumptions;. • financial or other difficulties with current customers at shipyards and suppliers;. • loss of revenues associated with downtime to remedy malfunctioning equipment not covered by warranty;. • unanticipated cost increases;. • loss of revenues and payments of liquidated damages for downtime to perform repairs associated with defects, unanticipated equipment refurbishment and delays in commencement of operations; and. • lack of ability to obtain the required permits or approvals, including import/export documentation.. Any one of the above risks could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Delays in the delivery of rigs being constructed or undergoing upgrade, refurbishment, or repair may, in many cases, delay commencement of a drilling contract resulting in a loss of revenues to us, and may also cause our customer to renegotiate the drilling contract for the rig or terminate or shorten the term of the contract under applicable late delivery clauses, if any. If one of these contracts is terminated, we may not be able to secure a replacement contract on as favorable terms, if at all. Additionally, actual expenditures for required upgrades or to refurbish or construct rigs could exceed our planned capital expenditures, impairing our ability to service our debt obligations.. Our international operations are subject to governmental regulation and other risks.. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from our international operations. In 2017, we derived approximately 60 percent of our revenues from operations in countries other than the United States. Our international operations are subject to the following risks, among others:. • political, social, and economic instability, war, terrorism, and civil disturbances;. • economic sanctions imposed by the U.S. government against other countries, groups, or individuals, or economic sanctions imposed by other governments against the U.S. or businesses incorporated in the U.S.;. • limitations on insurance coverage, such as war risk coverage, in certain areas;. • expropriation, confiscatory taxation, and nationalization of our assets;. • foreign laws and governmental regulation, including inconsistencies and unexpected changes in laws or regulatory requirements, and changes in interpretations or enforcement of existing laws or regulations;. • increases in governmental royalties;. 14. Table of Contents. • import-export quotas or trade barriers;. • hiring and retaining skilled and experienced workers, some of whom are represented by foreign labor unions;. • work stoppages;. • damage to our equipment or violence directed at our employees, including kidnapping;. • piracy of vessels transporting our people or equipment;. • unfavorable changes in foreign monetary and tax policies;. • solicitation by government officials for improper payments or other forms of corruption;. • foreign currency fluctuations and restrictions on currency repatriation;. • repudiation, nullification, modification, or renegotiation of contracts; and. • other forms of governmental regulation and economic conditions that are beyond our control.. We currently have operations in 19 countries. Our operations are subject to interruption, suspension, and possible expropriation due to terrorism, war, civil disturbances, political and capital instability, and similar events, and we have previously suffered loss of revenues and damage to equipment due to political violence. Civil and political disturbances in international locations may affect our operations. We may not be able to obtain insurance policies covering risks associated with these types of events, especially political violence coverage, and such policies may only be available with premiums that are not commercially reasonable.. Our international operations are subject to the laws and regulations of a number of countries with political, regulatory and judicial systems and regimes that may differ significantly from those in the U.S. Our ability to compete in international contract drilling and rental tool markets may be adversely affected by foreign governmental regulations and/or policies that favor the awarding of contracts to contractors in which nationals of those foreign countries have substantial ownership interests or by regulations requiring foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. Furthermore, our foreign subsidiaries may face governmentally imposed restrictions or fees from time to time on the transfer of funds to us.. In addition, tax and other laws and regulations in some foreign countries are not always interpreted consistently among local, regional, and national authorities, which can result in disputes between us and governing authorities. The ultimate outcome of these disputes is never certain, and it is possible that the outcomes could have an adverse effect on our financial performance.. A portion of the workers we employ in our international operations are members of labor unions or otherwise subject to collective bargaining. We may not be able to hire and retain a sufficient number of skilled and experienced workers for wages and other benefits that we believe are commercially reasonable.. We may experience currency exchange losses where revenues are received or expenses are paid in nonconvertible currencies or where we do not take protective measures against exposure to a foreign currency. We may also incur losses as a result of an inability to collect revenues because of a shortage of convertible currency available to the country of operation, controls over currency exchange, or controls over the repatriation of income or capital. Given the international scope of our operations, we are exposed to risks of currency fluctuation and restrictions on currency repatriation. We attempt to limit the risks of currency fluctuation and restrictions on currency repatriation where possible by obtaining contracts payable in U.S. dollars or freely convertible foreign currency. In addition, some parties with which we do business could require that all or a portion of our revenues be paid in local currencies. Foreign currency fluctuations, therefore, could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations and financial condition.. The shipment of goods, services and technology across international borders subjects us to extensive trade laws and regulations. Our import activities are governed by the unique customs laws and regulations in each of the countries where we operate. Moreover, many countries, including the U.S., control the export and re-export of certain goods, services, and technology and impose related export recordkeeping and reporting obligations. Governments may also impose economic sanctions against certain countries, persons, and other entities that may restrict or prohibit transactions involving such countries, persons, and entities. For example, in 2017 the U.S. Government imposed additional sanctions against Russia's oil and gas industry and certain Russian companies. Our ability to engage in certain future projects in Russia or involving certain Russian customers is dependent upon whether or not our involvement in such projects is restricted under U.S. or EU sanctions laws and the extent to which any of our prospective operations in Russia or with certain Russian customers may be subject to those laws. The laws and regulations concerning import activity, export recordkeeping and reporting, export control, and economic sanctions are complex and constantly. 15. Table of Contents. changing. These laws and regulations can cause delays in shipments and unscheduled operational downtime. Moreover, any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory trading obligations could result in criminal and civil penalties and sanctions, such as fines, imprisonment, debarment from governmental contracts, seizure of shipments, and loss of import and export privileges.. Our acquisitions, dispositions, and investments may not result in the realization of savings, the creation of efficiencies, the generation of cash or income, or the reduction of risk, which may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition.. We continually seek opportunities to maximize efficiency and value through various transactions, including purchases or sales of assets, businesses, investments, or joint ventures.  These transactions are intended to result in the realization of savings, the creation of efficiencies, the offering of new products or services, the generation of cash or income, or the reduction of risk.  These transactions may also affect our consolidated results of operations.. These transactions also involve risks, and we cannot ensure that:. • any acquisitions would result in an increase in income or earnings per share;. • any acquisitions would be successfully integrated into our operations and internal controls;. • the due diligence prior to an acquisition would uncover situations that could result in financial or legal exposure, or that we will appropriately quantify the exposure from known risks;. • any disposition would not result in decreased earnings, revenues, or cash flow;. • use of cash for acquisitions would not adversely affect our cash available for capital expenditures and other uses;. • any dispositions, investments, acquisitions, or integrations would not divert management resources; or. • any dispositions, investments, acquisitions, or integrations would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. Failure to comply with anti-corruption laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act 2010, could result in fines, criminal penalties, negative commercial consequences and an adverse effect on our business.. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the U.K. Bribery Act 2010, and similar anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments or providing improper benefits for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-corruption laws. However, we operate in many parts of the world that experience corruption. If we are found to be liable for violations of these laws either due to our own acts or omissions or due to the acts or omissions of others (including our joint ventures partners, our agents or other third-party representatives), we could suffer from commercial, civil, and criminal penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Failure to attract and retain skilled and experienced personnel could affect our operations.. We require skilled, trained, and experienced personnel to provide our customers with the highest quality technical services and support for our drilling operations. We compete with other oilfield services businesses and other employers to attract and retain qualified personnel with the technical skills and experience we require. Competition for skilled labor and other labor required for our operations intensifies as the number of rigs activated or added to worldwide fleets or under construction increases, creating upward pressure on wages. In periods of high utilization, we have found it more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals. A shortage in the available labor pool of skilled workers or other general inflationary pressures or changes in applicable laws and regulations could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain personnel and could require us to enhance our wage and benefits packages. Increases in our operating costs could adversely affect our business and financial results. Moreover, the shortages of qualified personnel or the inability to obtain and retain qualified personnel could negatively affect the quality, safety, and timeliness of our operations.. We are not fully insured against all risks associated with our business.. We ordinarily maintain insurance against certain losses and liabilities arising from our operations. However, we do not insure against all operational risks in the course of our business. Due to the high cost, high self-insured retention, and limited coverage insurance for windstorms in the GOM we have elected not to purchase windstorm insurance for our inland barges in the GOM. Although we have retained the risk for physical loss or damage for these rigs arising from a named windstorm, we have procured insurance coverage for removal of a wreck caused by a windstorm. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse impact on our business activities, financial position, and results of operations.. 16. Table of Contents. We are subject to hazards customary for drilling operations, which could adversely affect our financial performance if we are not adequately indemnified or insured.. Substantially all of our operations are subject to hazards that are customary for oil and natural gas drilling operations, including blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, lost or stuck drill strings, equipment defects, cratering, oil and natural gas well fires and explosions, natural disasters, pollution, mechanical failure, and damage or loss during transportation. Some of our fleet is also subject to hazards inherent in marine operations, either while on-site or during mobilization, such as capsizing, sinking, grounding, collision, damage from severe weather, and marine life infestations.  These hazards could result in damage to or destruction of drilling equipment, personal injury and property damage, suspension of operations, or environmental damage, which could lead to claims by third parties or customers, suspension of operations, and contract terminations. We have had accidents in the past due to some of these hazards. Typically, we are indemnified by our customers for injuries and property damage resulting from these types of events (except for injury to our employees and subcontractors and property damage to ours and our subcontractors' equipment).  However, we could be exposed to significant loss if adequate indemnity provisions or insurance are not in place, if indemnity provisions are unenforceable or otherwise invalid, or if our customers are unable or unwilling to satisfy any indemnity obligations. We may not be able to insure against these risks or to obtain indemnification to adequately protect us against liability from all of the consequences of the hazards and risks described above. The occurrence of an event not fully insured against or for which we are not indemnified, or the failure of a customer or insurer to meet its indemnification or insurance obligations, could result in substantial losses. In addition, insurance may not continue to be available to cover any or all of these risks. For example, pollution, reservoir damage and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Even if such insurance is available, insurance premiums or other costs may rise significantly in the future, making the cost of such insurance prohibitive. For a description of our indemnification obligations and insurance, see Item 1. Business  -  Insurance and Indemnification.. Certain areas in and near the GOM are subject to hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions. When operating in and near the GOM, our drilling rigs and rental tools may be located in areas that could cause them to be susceptible to damage or total loss by these storms. In addition, damage caused by high winds and turbulent seas to our rigs, our shore bases, and our corporate infrastructure could potentially cause us to curtail operations for significant periods of time until the effects of the damage can be repaired. In addition, our rigs in arctic regions can be affected by seasonal weather so severe that conditions are deemed too unsafe for operations.. Government regulations may reduce our business opportunities and increase our operating costs.. Government regulations control and often limit access to potential markets and impose extensive requirements concerning employee privacy and safety, environmental protection, pollution control, and remediation of environmental contamination. Environmental regulations, including species protections, prohibit access to some locations and make others less economical, increase equipment and personnel costs, and often impose liability without regard to negligence or fault. In addition, governmental regulations, such as those related to climate change, emissions, and hydraulic fracturing, may discourage our customers' activities, reducing demand for our products and services. We may be liable for damages resulting from pollution and, under United States regulations, must establish financial responsibility in order to drill offshore. See Item 1. Business  -  Environmental Considerations.. Regulation of greenhouse gases and climate change could have a negative impact on our business.. Some scientific studies have suggested that emissions of greenhouse gases may be contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. Such studies have resulted in increased local, state, regional, national, and international attention and actions relating to issues of climate change and the effect of GHG emissions, particularly emissions from fossil fuels. For example, the United States has been involved in international negotiations regarding greenhouse gas reductions under the UNFCCC. The U.S. was among 195 nations that participated in the creation of an international accord in December 2015, the Paris Agreement, with the objective of limiting greenhouse gas emissions. The Paris Agreement entered into force on November 4, 2016 and, as of late 2017, had been ratified by 174 of the 197 parties to the UNFCC. However, on August 4, 2017, the United States formally communicated to the United Nations its intent to withdraw from participation in the Paris Agreement, which entails a four-year process. The EPA has also taken action under the CAA to regulate greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, a number of states have either proposed or implemented restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions.  International accords such as the Paris Agreement may result in additional regulations to control greenhouse gas emissions. Other developments focused on restricting GHG emissions include but are not limited to the Kyoto Protocol; the European Union Emission Trading System; the United Kingdom's Carbon Reduction Commitment; and, in the U.S., the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, the Western Regional Climate Action Initiative, and various state programs. These regulations could also adversely affect market demand or pricing for our services, by affecting the price of, or reducing the demand for, fossil fuels or providing competitive advantages to competing fuels and energy sources.. 17. Table of Contents. Because our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, existing or future laws, regulations, treaties, or international agreements related to GHGs and climate change, including incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources, could have a negative impact on our business if such laws, regulations, treaties, or international agreements reduce the worldwide demand for oil and natural gas or otherwise result in reduced economic activity generally. In addition, such laws, regulations, treaties, or international agreements could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, which may have a negative impact on our business. In addition to potential impacts on our business directly or indirectly resulting from climate-change legislation or regulations, our business also could be negatively affected by climate-change related physical changes or changes in weather patterns. An increase in severe weather patterns could result in damages to or loss of our rigs, impact our ability to conduct our operations and/or result in a disruption of our customers' operations.. We are regularly involved in litigation, some of which may be material.. We are regularly involved in litigation, claims, and disputes incidental to our business, which at times may involve claims for significant monetary amounts, some of which would not be covered by insurance. We undertake all reasonable steps to defend ourselves in such lawsuits. Nevertheless, we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of such lawsuits and any resolution which is adverse to us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. See Note 13 - Commitments and Contingencies in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for a discussion of the material legal proceedings affecting us.. Increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing could result in reductions or delays in drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells, which could adversely impact the demand for rental tools.. Hydraulic fracturing is a process sometimes used in the completion of oil and natural gas wells whereby water, other liquids, sand, and chemicals are injected under pressure into subsurface formations to stimulate natural gas and, oil production. Various governmental entities (within and outside the United States) are in the process of studying, restricting, regulating, or preparing to regulate hydraulic fracturing, directly and indirectly.  Many state governments require the disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process and, due to concerns raised relating to potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing, including on groundwater quality and seismic activity, legislative and regulatory efforts at the federal level and in some state and local jurisdictions have been initiated to render permitting and compliance requirements more stringent for hydraulic fracturing or prohibit the activity altogether. We do not directly engage in hydraulic fracturing activities.  However, these and other developments could cause operational delays or increased costs in exploration and production, which could adversely affect the demand for our rental tools.. A cybersecurity incident could negatively impact our business and our relationships with customers.. Our businesses and the oil and natural gas industry in general have become increasingly dependent on digital data, computer networks, and connected infrastructure.  Digital technologies are subject to the risk of cyber-attack and other failures.  If our systems for protecting against cybersecurity risks prove insufficient, we could be adversely affected by, among other things, loss or damage of intellectual property, proprietary information, or customer and employee data, having our business operations interrupted, and increased costs to prevent, respond to, or mitigate cybersecurity attacks. These risks could harm our relationships with customers, employees and other third parties, and have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition.. If we cannot meet the continued listing requirements of the NYSE, the NYSE may delist our common stock, which would have an adverse impact on the trading volume, liquidity and market price of our common stock.. If the average closing price of our common shares were to fall below $1.00 over a period of 30 consecutive trading days, which is the minimum average share price required by the NYSE under Section 802.01C of the NYSE Listed Company Manual, we would no longer be in compliance with the NYSE's continued listing requirements and would expect to receive a notice of noncompliance from the NYSE. The notice would have no immediate impact on the listing of our common shares, which would continue to be listed and traded on the NYSE during the six-month period described below, subject to our compliance with other continued listing standards.. We would have six months following receipt of the NYSE's notice to regain compliance with the NYSE's minimum share price requirement. We would be able to regain compliance at any time during the six-month cure period if on the last trading day of any calendar month during the cure period our common shares has a closing share price of at least $1.00 and an average closing share price of at least $1.00 over the 30 trading-day period ending on the last trading day of such month. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if we were to determine that we must cure the price condition by taking an action that would require approval of our shareholders (such as a reverse stock split), we could also regain compliance by: (i) obtaining the requisite shareholder approval by no later than our next annual meeting and (ii) implementing the action promptly thereafter, such that the price of our common stock would promptly exceed $1.00 per share, provided that the price must remain above that level for at least the following 30 trading days. However, there is no assurance that our stockholders would vote for such proposal.. 18. Table of Contents. On January 2, 2018, we received a notice from the NYSE that the average closing price of our common stock over a 30 consecutive trading day period was below $1.00 per share, and, as a result, the price per share of the common stock was below the minimum average closing price required to maintain listing on the NYSE. Though we regained compliance with the NYSE continued listing requirements on January 31, 2018, we cannot assure you that the average closing price of our common stock over a consecutive 30 trading-day period will not fall below $1.00 per share in the future. A delisting of our common stock from the NYSE could negatively impact us as it would likely reduce the liquidity and market price of our common stock; reduce the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock; and negatively impact our ability to access equity markets and obtain financing.. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly.. The market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate in response to various factors and events, many of which are beyond our control, including the following:. • the other risk factors described in this Form 10-K, including changes in oil and natural gas prices;. • a shortfall in rig utilization, operating revenues, or net income from that expected by securities analysts and investors;. • changes in securities analysts' estimates of the financial performance of us or our competitors or the financial performance of companies in the oilfield service industry generally;. • changes in actual or market expectations with respect to the amounts of exploration and development spending by oil and natural gas companies;. • general conditions in the economy and in energy-related industries;. • general conditions in the securities markets;. • political instability, terrorism, or war; and. • the outcome of pending and future legal proceedings, investigations, tax assessments, and other claims.. We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future.. We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future and the terms of our existing indebtedness restricts our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. Any declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common stock may be limited by the provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law and our indebtedness. The future payment of dividends on our common stock will be at the sole discretion of our board of directors and will depend on many factors, including our earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, and other considerations that our board of directors deems relevant.. 19. Table of Contents. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. This Form 10-K contains statements that are \"forward-looking statements\" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the Exchange Act). All statements contained in this Form 10-K, other than statements of historical facts, are forward-looking statements for purposes of these provisions.  In some cases, you can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as \"anticipate,\" \"believe,\" \"could,\" \"estimate,\" \"expect,\" \"intend,\" \"outlook,\" \"may,\" \"should,\" \"will\" and \"would\" or similar words. Forward-looking statements are based on certain assumptions and analyses we make in light of our experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors we believe are relevant. Although we believe that our assumptions are reasonable based on information currently available, those assumptions are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this Form 10-K, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You should be aware that the occurrence of the events described in these risk factors and elsewhere in this Form 10-K could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows."
