[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.. Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information. Certain statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K which are not statements of historical fact constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including, without limitation, the statements specifically identified as forward-looking statements within this document. In addition, certain statements in future filings by Park with the SEC, in press releases, and in oral and written statements made by or with the approval of Park which are not statements of historical fact constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Examples of forward-looking statements include: (i) projections of income or expense, earnings per share, the payment or non-payment of dividends, capital structure and other financial items; (ii) statements of plans and objectives of Park or our management or Board of Directors, including those relating to products or services or to potential or pending acquisitions; (iii) statements of future economic performance; and (iv) statements of assumptions underlying such statements. Words such as \"believes,\" \"anticipates,\" \"expects,\" \"intends,\" \"targeted\" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements but are not the exclusive means of identifying those statements.. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a \"safe harbor\" for forward-looking statements to encourage companies to provide prospective information so long as those statements are identified as forward-looking and are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. We desire to take advantage of the \"safe harbor\" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those predicted by the forward-looking statements because of various factors and possible events, including those factors and events identified below. There is also the risk that Park's management or Board of Directors incorrectly analyzes these risks and uncertainties or that the strategies Park develops to address them are unsuccessful.. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and, except as may be required by law, Park undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which the statement is made to reflect unanticipated events. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to Park or any person acting on Park's behalf are qualified in their entirety by the following cautionary statements.. Changes in economic and political conditions could adversely affect our earnings through declines in our borrowers' ability to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing our loans, and deposits.. Our success depends, to a certain extent, upon economic and political conditions, local and national, as well as governmental fiscal and monetary policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, fiscal and monetary policy and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our asset quality, deposit levels and loan demand and, therefore, our earnings and our capital. The election of a new United States President in 2016 has resulted in substantial changes in economic and political conditions for the United States and the remainder of the world. Disruptions in U.S. and global financial markets and changes in oil production in the Middle East affect the economy and stock prices in the United States, which can affect our earnings and our capital as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans. Because we have a significant amount of real estate loans, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings and cash flows. The substantial majority of the loans made by our subsidiaries are to individuals and businesses in Ohio. Consequently, a significant decline in the economy in Ohio could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. -. 18. -. Changes in the general economic conditions and real estate valuations in our primary market areas could adversely impact results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our lending and deposit gathering activities are concentrated primarily in Ohio. Our success depends on the general economic conditions of our primary market areas, particularly given that a significant portion of our lending relates to real estate located in these regions. Adverse changes in the regional and general economic conditions could reduce our growth rate, impair our ability to collect payments on loans, increase loan delinquencies, increase problem assets and foreclosures, increase claims and lawsuits, increase devaluations recognized within our OREO portfolio, decrease the demand for our products and services and decrease the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate values, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Legislative or regulatory changes or actions could adversely impact us or the businesses in which we are engaged.. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. We are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of our operations. Laws and regulations may change from time to time and are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors, borrowers, the FDIC's Deposit Insurance Fund and the banking system as a whole, and not to benefit our shareholders. Regulations affecting banks and financial services businesses are undergoing continuous changes, and management cannot predict the effect of these changes. The current United States President and certain legislators have taken steps to make extensive changes to regulations affecting financial institutions. While such changes are generally intended to lessen the regulatory burden on financial institutions, the impact of any changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies may negatively impact us or our ability to increase the value of our business. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets held by an institution and the adequacy of an institution's allowance for loan losses. Additionally, actions by regulatory agencies against us could cause us to devote significant time and resources to defending our business and may lead to penalties that materially affect us and our shareholders. Even the reduction of regulatory restrictions could have an adverse effect on us and our shareholders if such lessening of restrictions increases competition within our industry or our market area.. In light of current conditions in the global financial markets and the global economy that occurred in the last decade, regulators increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. In the last several years, the United States Congress and the federal agencies regulating the financial services industry have acted on an unprecedented scale in responding to the stresses experienced in the global financial markets. Some of the laws enacted by the United States Congress and regulations promulgated by federal regulatory agencies subject us, and other financial institutions to which such laws and regulations apply, to additional restrictions, oversight and costs that may have an impact on our business, results of operations or the trading price of our Common Shares. In addition to laws, regulations and supervisory and enforcement actions directed at the operations of banks, proposals to reform the housing finance market consider significant changes to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which could negatively affect our sales of loans.. In July 2013, Park's primary federal regulator, the Federal Reserve, published final rules (the \"Basel III Capital Rules\") establishing a new comprehensive capital framework for U.S. banking organizations. The rules implement the Basel Committee's December 2010 framework known as \"Basel III\" for strengthening international capital standards as well as certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Basel III Capital Rules substantially revise the risk-based capital requirements applicable to financial holding companies and other bank holding companies as well as depository institutions, including Park and Park National Bank, compared to the previous U.S. risk-based capital rules. The Basel III Capital Rules define the components of capital and address other issues affecting the numerator in banking institutions' regulatory capital ratios. The Basel III Capital Rules also address risk weights and other issues affecting the denominator in banking institutions' regulatory capital ratios and replace the existing risk-weighting approach, which was derived from Basel I capital accords of the Basel Committee, with a more risk-sensitive approach based, in part, on the standardized approach in the Basel Committee's 2004 \"Basel II\" capital accords. The Basel III Capital Rules also implement the requirements of Section 939A of the Dodd-Frank Act to remove references to credit ratings from the federal banking agencies' rules. The Basel III Capital Rules became effective for Park and Park National Bank on January 1, 2015 (subject to a phase-in period). Although the implementation of Basel III, once fully phased in, is not expected to have a material impact on Park's or Park National Bank's capital ratios, any future changes to capital requirements could have such an effect.. -. 19. -. Adverse changes in the financial markets may adversely impact our results of operations.. While we generally invest in securities issued by United States government agencies and sponsored entities and United States state and local governments with limited credit risk, certain investment securities we hold possess higher credit risk since they represent beneficial interests in structured investments collateralized by residential mortgages, debt obligations and other similar asset-backed assets.  Even securities issued by governmental agencies and entities may entail risk depending on political and economic changes.  Regardless of the level of credit risk, all investment securities are subject to changes in market value due to changing interest rates, implied credit spreads and credit ratings.. We operate in a highly competitive environment, in terms of the products and services we offer and the geographic markets in which we conduct business, as well as in our labor markets where we compete for talented employees. Competition could adversely impact our customer acquisition, growth and retention, as well as our credit spreads and product pricing, causing us to lose market share and deposits and revenues.. We are subject to intense competition from various financial institutions as well as from non-bank entities that engage in many similar activities without being subject to bank regulatory supervision and restrictions. This competition is described in \"Item 1 - Business\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption \"Competition.\" Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies, in connection with current market conditions or otherwise. Consumers may also move money out of bank deposits in favor of other investments. Customers have increasingly used bill payment services that do not utilize banks. These trends may result in losses of deposits and fee income.. The principal bases for competition are pricing (including the interest rates charged on loans or paid on interest bearing deposits), product structure, the range of products and services offered, and the quality of customer service (including convenience and responsiveness to customer needs and concerns). The ability to access and use technology is an increasingly important competitive factor in the financial services industry, and it is a critically important component to customer satisfaction as it affects our ability to deliver the right products and services.. Another increasingly competitive factor in the financial services industry is the competition to attract and retain talented employees across many of our business and support areas. This competition leads to increased expenses in many business areas and can also cause us to not pursue certain business opportunities.. A failure to adequately address the competitive pressures we face could make it harder for us to attract and retain customers across our businesses. On the other hand, meeting these competitive pressures could require us to incur significant additional expense, to reevaluate the number of branches through which we serve our customers, or to accept risk beyond what we would otherwise view as desirable under the circumstances. In addition, in our interest rate sensitive businesses, pressures to increase rates on deposits or decrease rates on loans could reduce our net interest margin with a resulting negative impact on our net interest income.. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our earnings and cash flows depend substantially on our interest rate spread, which is the difference between (i) the rates we earn on loans, investment securities and other interest earning assets and (ii) the interest rates we pay on deposits and our borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. Changes in monetary policy influence the origination of loans, the prepayment speed of loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits and rates of interest received and paid. While we have taken measures intended to manage the risks of operating in a changing interest rate environment, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective in avoiding undue interest rate risk. Information pertaining to the impact changes in interest rates could have on our net income is included in Table 37 in the section of Park's 2017 Annual Report captioned \"MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS,\" and is incorporated herein by reference.. -. 20. -. We extend credit to a variety of customers based on internally set standards and the judgment of our loan officers and bank division presidents. We manage the credit risk through a program of underwriting standards, the review of certain credit decisions and an on-going process of assessing the quality of the credit already extended. Our credit standards and on-going process of credit assessment might not protect us from significant credit losses.. We take credit risk by virtue of making loans and leases, extending loan commitments and letters of credit and, to a lesser degree, purchasing municipal bonds. Our exposure to credit risk is managed through the use of consistent underwriting standards that emphasize \"in-market\" lending while avoiding highly leveraged transactions as well as excessive industry and other concentrations. Our loans to non-bank consumer finance companies are made nationally and present different risks than our \"in-market\" lending, due to the variability of cash flows that support the asset-based loans. Our credit administration function employs risk management techniques to ensure that loans and leases adhere to corporate policy and problem loans and leases are promptly identified. While these procedures are designed to provide us with the information needed to implement policy adjustments where necessary, and to take proactive corrective actions, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective in avoiding undue credit risk.. Our business and financial results are subject to risks associated with the creditworthiness of our customers and counterparties.. Credit risk is inherent in the financial services business and results from, among other things, extending credit to customers, purchasing non-governmental securities, and entering into certain guarantee contracts.  Credit risk is one of the most significant risks, particularly given the high percentage of our assets represented directly or indirectly by loans, and the importance of lending to our overall business.  As discussed in the immediately preceding risk factor, we manage credit risk by assessing and monitoring the creditworthiness of our customers and by diversifying our loan portfolio.  Many factors impact credit risk.. A borrower's ability to repay a loan can be adversely affected by individual factors, such as business performance, job losses or health issues.  A weak or deteriorating economy and changes in the United States or global markets also could adversely impact the ability of our borrowers to repay outstanding loans.  Any decrease in our borrowers' ability to repay loans would result in higher levels of nonperforming loans, net charge-offs and provision for loan losses.. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing and other relationships.  We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry.  Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client.. Despite maintaining a diversified portfolio, in the ordinary course of business, we may have concentrated credit exposure to a particular person or entity, industry or counterparty.  Events adversely affecting specific customers, industries or markets, a decrease in the credit quality of a customer base or an adverse change in the risk profile of a market, industry or group of customers could adversely affect us.. Our credit risk may be exacerbated when collateral held by us to secure obligations to us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices that are not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan.. In part due to improvement in general economic conditions, as well as actions taken by Park to manage our portfolio, the provision for loan losses for Park's Ohio-based subsidiaries has declined since the end of the recent recession.  If we were to experience higher levels of provision for loan losses, it could result in lower levels of net income.. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb the probable, incurred losses in our loan portfolio.. Lending money is a substantial part of our business. However, every loan we make carries a risk of non-payment. This risk is affected by, among other things: the cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; in the case of a collateralized loan, the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral, the credit history of a particular borrower, changes in economic and industry conditions, and the duration of the loan.. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (\"GAAP\") requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. One of our most critical estimates is the level of the allowance for loan losses. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, we cannot provide absolute assurance that we will not be required to charge earnings for significant unexpected loan losses.. -. 21. -. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is a reasonable estimate of the probable, incurred losses within the loan portfolio. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. Through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering general market conditions, the credit quality of the loan portfolio, the collateral supporting the loans and the performance of customers relative to their financial obligations with us. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. We cannot fully predict the amount or timing of losses or whether the loan loss allowance will be adequate in the future. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover the probable, incurred losses in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance for loan losses. Excessive loan losses and significant additions to our allowance for loan losses could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Moreover, the Financial Accounting Standards Board has changed its requirements for establishing the allowance for loan losses.  The new guidance is effective for annual reporting periods and interim reporting periods within those annual periods, beginning after December 15, 2019. Management is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this accounting guidance on Park's consolidated financial statements, but anticipates that it will result in a material increase to Park's allowance for loan losses. Management has established a committee to oversee the implementation of the new current expected credit loss model. This committee is currently in the process of implementing a software solution to assist in the adoption of the this new guidance. Any significant increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Deposit insurance premiums assessed on Park may increase and have a negative effect on Park's results of operations.. The Deposit Insurance Fund (the \"DIF\") maintained by the FDIC to resolve bank failures is funded by fees assessed on insured depository institutions. The costs of resolving bank failures increased for a period of time, decreasing the DIF balance. The FDIC collected a special assessment in 2009 to replenish the DIF and also required a prepayment of an estimated amount of future deposit insurance premiums. If the costs of future bank failures increase, deposit insurance premiums may also increase. The FDIC has recently adopted rules revising its assessments in a manner benefiting banks with assets totaling less than $10 billion.  There can be no assurance, however, that assessments will not be changed in the future.. We depend upon the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties.. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information provided to us by customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to a business, we may assume that the customer's audited financial statements conform with GAAP and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. We may also rely on the audit report covering those financial statements. Our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted to the extent that we rely on financial statements that do not comply with GAAP or on financial statements and other financial information that are materially misleading.. We may be required to repurchase loans we have sold or indemnify loan purchasers under the terms of the sale agreements, which could adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition.. When we sell a mortgage loan, we may agree to repurchase or substitute a mortgage loan if we are later found to have breached any representation or warranty we made about the loan or if the borrower is later found to have committed fraud in connection with the origination of the loan.  While we have underwriting policies and procedures designed to avoid breaches of representations and warranties as well as borrower fraud, there can be no assurance that no breach or fraud will ever occur.  Required repurchases, substitutions or indemnifications could have an adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition.. -. 22. -. We are exposed to operational risk.. Similar to any large organization, we are exposed to many types of operational risk, including those discussed in more detail in this Risk Factors section, such as reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems.. We may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which may include, for example, computer viruses, cyber-attacks, spikes in transaction volume and/or customer activity, electrical or telecommunications outages, or natural disasters. Although we have programs in place related to business continuity, disaster recovery and information security to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems, business applications and customer information, such disruptions may give rise to interruptions in service to customers, loss of data privacy and loss or liability to us.. Any failure or interruption in our operations or information systems, or any security or data breach, could cause reputational damage, jeopardize the confidentiality of customer information, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to regulatory intervention or expose us to civil litigation and financial loss or liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us.. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions, and from actions taken by governmental regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and keep customers and can expose us to potential litigation and regulatory action.. Given the volume of transactions we process, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process our transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical system flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect, which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are) and to the risk that our (or our vendors') consumer compliance, business continuity, and data security systems prove to be inadequate.. Our business could be adversely affected by third-party service providers, data breaches and cyber-attacks.. We face the risk of operational disruption, failure or capacity constraints due to our dependency on third-party vendors for components of our business infrastructure. While we have selected these third-party vendors through our vendor management process, we do not control their operations. As such, any failure on the part of these business partners to perform their various responsibilities could also adversely affect our business and operations.. Further, we may be affected by data breaches at retailers and other third parties who participate in data interchanges with us and our customers that involve the theft of customer credit and debit card data, which may include the theft of our debit card PIN numbers and commercial card information used to make purchases at such retailers and other third parties. Such data breaches could result in us incurring significant expenses to reissue debit cards and cover losses, which could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our assets at risk for cyber-attacks include financial assets and non-public information belonging to customers. We use several third-party vendors who have access to our assets via electronic media. Certain cyber security risks arise due to this access, including cyber espionage, blackmail, ransom, and theft. We employ many preventive and detective controls to protect our assets, and provide mandatory recurring information security training to all employees. To date, we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches, but there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such attacks or attempted breaches, or incur resulting losses in the future. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, our plans to continue to implement Internet and mobile banking to meet customer demand, and the current economic and political environment. As cyber and other data security threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify and enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any security vulnerabilities.. -. 23. -. Failures or material breaches in security of our systems or those of third-party service providers may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and the price of our common shares.. We collect, process and store sensitive consumer data by utilizing computer systems and telecommunications networks operated by both us and third-party service providers.  Park's necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process Park's transactions poses the risk that technical system flaws, employee errors, tampering or manipulation of those systems, or attacks by third parties will result in losses and may be difficult to detect.  We have security and backup and recovery systems in place, as well as a business continuity plan, to ensure the computer systems will not be inoperable, to the extent possible.  Our inability to use or access these information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact the timeliness and efficiency of our business operations.  In recent years, some banks have experienced denial of service attacks in which individuals or organizations flood the bank's website with extraordinarily high volumes of traffic, with the goal and effect of disrupting the ability of the bank to process transactions.  Other businesses have been victims of ransomware attacks in which the business becomes unable to access its own information and is presented with a demand to pay a ransom in order to once again have access to its information.  We could be adversely affected if one of our employees causes a significant operational break-down or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our operations or systems.  We may not be able to prevent employee errors or misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect this type of activity might not be effective in all cases.  Park is further exposed to the risk that the third-party service providers may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risks as Park).  These disruptions may interfere with service to our customers, cause additional regulatory scrutiny and result in a financial loss or liability.  We are also at risk of the impact of natural disasters, terrorism and international hostilities on our systems or for the effects of outages or other failures involving power or communications systems operated by others.. In addition, there have been instances where financial institutions have been victims of fraudulent activity in which criminals pose as customers to initiate wire and automated clearinghouse transactions out of customer accounts.  The recent massive breach of the systems of a credit bureau presents additional threats as criminals now have more information about a larger portion of our country's population than past breaches have involved, which could be used by criminals to pose as customers initiating transfers of money from customer accounts.  Although we have policies and procedures in place to verify the authenticity of our customers, we cannot assure that such policies and procedures will prevent all fraudulent transfers.. We have implemented security controls to prevent unauthorized access to the computer systems and require our third-party service providers to maintain similar controls.  However, management cannot be certain that these measures will be successful.  A security breach of the computer systems and loss of confidential information, such as customer account numbers and related information, could result in a loss of customers' confidence and, thus, loss of business.  We could also lose revenue if competitors gain access to confidential information about our business operations and use it to compete with us.. Further, we may be affected by data breaches at retailers and other third parties who participate in data interchanges with us and our customers that involve the theft of customer credit and debit card data, which may include the theft of our debit card PIN numbers and commercial card information used to make purchases at such retailers and other third parties.  Such data breaches could result in us incurring significant expenses to reissue debit cards and cover losses, which could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our assets at risk for cyber-attacks include financial assets and non-public information belonging to customers.  We use several third-party vendors who have access to our assets via electronic media.  Certain cyber security risks arise due to this access, including cyber espionage, blackmail, ransom, and theft.. All of the types of cyber incidents discussed above could result in damage to our reputation, loss of customer business, costs of incentives to customers or business partners in order to maintain their relationships, litigation, increased regulatory scrutiny and potential enforcement actions, repairs of system damage, increased investments in cybersecurity (such as obtaining additional technology, making organizational changes, deploying additional personnel, training personnel and engaging consultants), increased insurance premiums, and loss of investor confidence and a reduction in our stock price, all of which could result in financial loss and material adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition.. We could suffer a material adverse impact from interruptions in the effective operation of, or security breaches affecting, our computer systems.. We rely heavily on information systems to conduct our business and to process, record, and monitor our transactions.  Risks to the systems result from a variety of factors, including the potential for bad acts on the part of hackers, criminals, employees and others.  As one example, in recent years, some banks have experienced denial of service attacks in which individuals or organizations flood the bank's website with extraordinarily high volumes of traffic, with the goal and effect of. -. 24. -. disrupting the ability of the bank to process transactions.  We are also at risk for the impact of natural disasters, terrorism and international hostilities on our systems or for the effects of outages or other failures involving power or communications systems operated by others.  These risks also arise from the same types of threats to businesses with which we deal.. Potential adverse consequences of attacks on our computer systems or other threats include damage to our reputation, loss of customer business, litigation and increased regulatory scrutiny, which might also result in financial loss and require additional efforts and expense to attempt to prevent such adverse consequences in the future.. Changes in accounting standards, policies, estimates or procedures could impact our reported financial condition or results of operations.. The accounting standard setters, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC and other regulatory bodies, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting guidance that governs the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. The pace of change continues to accelerate and changes in accounting standards can be hard to predict and could materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply new or revised guidance retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements.. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, actual results may vary materially from management's estimates. Additional information regarding Park's critical accounting policies and the sensitivity of estimates can be found in the section captioned \"MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS - CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES\" in Park's 2017 Annual Report.. We may be a defendant from time to time in the future in a variety of litigation and other actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We and our subsidiaries may be involved from time to time in the future in a variety of litigation arising out of our business. The risk of litigation increases in times of increased troubled loan collection activity. Our insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against us, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, nor may we be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms, if at all.. A default by another larger financial institution could adversely affect financial markets generally.. The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of relationships between and among the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant marketwide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as \"systemic risk\" and may adversely affect our business.. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed.. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. Federal banking agencies have adopted extensive changes to their capital requirements, including raising required amounts and eliminating the inclusion of certain instruments from the calculation of capital. If we experience significant loan losses, additional capital may need to be infused. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect or be required to raise additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on our financial performance, conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we can raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We may not pay dividends on our Common Shares.. Although we have paid a dividend on our Common Shares every quarter since becoming a public company, the Board of Directors reviews the dividend on a quarterly basis and establishes the dividend rate based on Park's financial condition, results of operations, capital and other regulatory requirements, and other factors which the Board of Directors deems relevant. As a financial holding company, we are a legal entity separate and distinct from our subsidiaries and affiliates. Our principal. -. 25. -. source of funds to pay dividends on our Common Shares and service our debt is dividends from our subsidiaries. In the event our subsidiaries become unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our other obligations or pay dividends on our Common Shares. Accordingly, our inability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Various federal and state statutory provisions and regulations limit the amount of dividends that Park National Bank and our other subsidiaries may pay to us without regulatory approval. In addition, the Federal Reserve Board and the OCC have issued policy statements that provide that insured banks as well as financial holding companies and other bank holding companies should generally only pay dividends out of current operating earnings. Thus, the ability of Park National Bank to pay dividends in the future is currently influenced, and could be further influenced, by bank regulatory policies and capital guidelines and may restrict our ability to declare and pay dividends.. Payment of dividends could also be subject to regulatory limitations if Park National Bank were to become \"undercapitalized\" for purposes of the applicable \"prompt corrective action\" regulations. \"Undercapitalized\" is currently defined as having a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 8.0%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 6.0%, a common equity tier 1 capital ratio of less than 4.50%, or a core capital, or leverage, ratio of less than 4.0%. Throughout 2017 and 2018 to date, Park National Bank has been in compliance with all regulatory capital requirements and had sufficient capital under the \"prompt corrective action\" regulations to be deemed \"well-capitalized.\" There are also restrictions on the ability of Park National Bank to pay dividends if it does not hold the applicable capital conservation buffer.. If any of our subsidiaries becomes insolvent, the direct creditors of that subsidiary will have a prior claim on that subsidiary's assets. Our rights and the rights of our creditors will be subject to that prior claim, unless we are also a direct creditor of that subsidiary.. Derivative transactions may expose us to unexpected risk and potential losses.. We are party to a number of derivative transactions. Many of these derivative instruments are individually negotiated and non-standardized, which can make exiting, transferring or settling the position difficult. We carry borrowings which contain embedded derivatives. These borrowing arrangements require that we deliver underlying securities to the counterparty as collateral. We are dependent on the creditworthiness of the counterparties and are therefore susceptible to credit and operational risk in these situations.. Derivative contracts and other transactions entered into with third parties are not always confirmed by the counterparties on a timely basis. While the transaction remains unconfirmed, we are subject to heightened credit and operational risk and, in the event of a default, may find it more difficult to enforce the contract. In addition, as new and more complex derivative products are created, covering a wider array of underlying credit and other instruments, disputes about the terms of the underlying contracts could arise, which could impair our ability to effectively manage our risk exposures from these products and subject us to increased costs. Any regulatory effort to create an exchange or trading platform for credit derivatives and other over-the-counter derivative contracts, or a market shift toward standardized derivatives, could reduce the risk associated with such transactions, but under certain circumstances could also limit our ability to develop derivatives that best suit the needs of our clients and ourselves and adversely affect our profitability.. Changes in tax laws could adversely affect our performance, including the recently enacted Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, and uncertainty or speculation pending the enactment of such changes.. We are subject to extensive federal, state and local taxes, including income, excise, sales/use, payroll, franchise, withholding and ad valorem taxes.  Changes to our taxes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, fair values of net deferred tax assets and obligations of states and political subdivisions held in our investment securities portfolio.  In addition, our customers are subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local taxes.  Changes in taxes paid by our customers may adversely affect their ability to purchase homes or consumer products, which could adversely affect their demand for our loans and deposit products.  In addition, such negative effects on our customers could result in defaults on the loans we have made and decrease the value of mortgage-backed securities in which we have invested.. On December 22, 2017, H.R.1, originally known as the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,\" was enacted into law.  The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, among other changes, imposes additional limitations on the federal income tax deductions individual taxpayers may take for mortgage loan interest payments and for state and local taxes, including real estate taxes. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act also imposes additional limitations on the deductibility of business interest expense, and eliminates other deductions in their entirety, including deductions for certain home equity loan interest payments. Such limits and eliminations may result in customer defaults on loans we have made and decrease the value of mortgage-backed securities in which we have invested.. -. 26. -. Completion of the NewDominion Merger is subject to many conditions and if these conditions are not satisfied or waived, the NewDominion Merger will not be completed.. The respective obligations of Park and Park National Bank, on the one hand, and NewDominion, on the other hand, to complete the NewDominion Merger are subject to the fulfillment of customary closing conditions, including approval of the NewDominion Merger Agreement by the requisite vote of the NewDominion shareholders, receipt of required regulatory approvals, effectiveness of the registration statement to be filed by Park and approval for listing on NYSE AMERICAN, with respect to the Park Common Shares to be issued in the NewDominion Merger. These conditions to the consummation of the NewDominion Merger may not be fulfilled and, accordingly, the NewDominion Merger may not be completed. In addition, the NewDominion Merger Agreement provides certain termination rights for each party and further provides that, in the event the NewDominion Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances in connection with a competing acquisition transaction, NewDominion will be required to pay Park a termination fee equal to $4,170,000.. We could experience difficulties in effectively integrating NewDominion, which could contribute to our not fully achieving the expected benefits from the NewDominion Merger.. We may not be able to achieve fully the strategic objectives and operating efficiencies in the NewDominion Merger. The costs or difficulties relating to and the time involved in the integration of NewDominion with Park National Bank may be greater than expected or the anticipated revenue synergies and cost savings from the NewDominion Merger may not be fully realized or realized within the expected timeframe. In addition, the market and industries in which Park National Bank and NewDominion operate are highly competitive. Customer and employee relationships and business operations for each of Park National Bank and NewDominion may be disrupted by the NewDominion Merger. Any of these factors could contribute to our not fully achieving the expected benefits from the NewDominion Merger.. Future expansion may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations as well as dilute the interests of our shareholders and negatively affect the price of our Common Shares.. In addition to the pending NewDominion Merger, we may acquire other financial institutions, or branches or assets of other financial institutions, in the future.  We may also open new branches and enter into new lines of business or offer new products or services.  Any such expansion of our business will involve a number of expenses and risks, which may include:.  the time and expense associated with identifying and evaluating potential expansions;.  the potential inaccuracy of estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risk with respect to target institutions;.  potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target institution;.  exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target institution;.  the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring local management and opening new offices, and the delay between commencing these activities and the generation of profits from the expansion;.  our financing of the expansion;.  the diversion of management's attention to the negotiation of a transaction and the integration of the operations and personnel of the combining businesses;.  entry into unfamiliar markets;.  the introduction of new products and services into our existing business;.  the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse short-term effects on our results of operations;.  the risk of loss of key employees and customers; and.  difficulty in receiving appropriate regulatory approval for any proposed transaction.. We may incur substantial costs to expand, and we can give no assurance that such expansion will result in the levels of profits we expect.  Neither can we assure that integration efforts for any future acquisitions will be successful.  We may issue equity securities in connection with acquisitions, which could dilute the economic and voting interests of our existing shareholders.. Any merger or acquisition opportunity that we decide to pursue will ultimately be subject to regulatory approval or other closing conditions. We may expend substantial time and resources pursing potential acquisitions which may not be consummated because regulatory approval or other closing conditions are not satisfied.. -. 27. -"
