[1] "ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. Patriot’s financial condition and results of operation are subject to various risks inherent to its business, including those noted below.. The risks involved in the Bank’s commercial real estate loan portfolio are material.. The Bank’s commercial real estate loan portfolio constitutes a material portion of its assets and generally has different risks than residential mortgage loans. Commercial real estate loans often involve larger loan balances concentrated with single borrowers or groups of related borrowers as compared to single-family residential loans.. Because the repayment of commercial real estate loans depends on the successful management and operation of the borrower’s properties or related businesses, repayments of such loans can be affected by adverse conditions in the real estate market or local economy. A downturn in the real estate market within the Bank’s market area may adversely impact the value of properties securing these loans. These risks are partially offset by shorter terms, reduced loan-to-value ratios, and guarantor support of the borrower.. Real estate lending in the Bank’s core market involves risks related to a decline in value of commercial and residential real estate.. The market value of real estate can fluctuate significantly in a relatively short period of time, as a result of market conditions in the geographic area in which real estate is located. A significant portion of the Bank’s total loan portfolio is secured by real estate located in Fairfield County, Connecticut and Westchester County, New York, areas historically of high affluence that had been materially impacted by the financial troubles experienced by large financial service companies on Wall Street and other companies during the financial crisis. Since then, credit markets have become tighter and underwriting standards more stringent and the inability of purchasers of real estate to obtain financing will continue to impact the real estate market. Therefore, these loans may be subject to changes in grade, classification, accrual status, foreclosure, or loss, which could have an effect on the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses.. The Bank’s business is subject to various lending and other economic risks that could adversely impact its results of operations and financial condition.. Changes in economic conditions, particularly a continued economic slowdown in Fairfield County, Connecticut and the New York metropolitan area could result in the following consequences, any of which may have a material detrimental effect on the Bank’s business:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tIncreases in:. - \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tLoan delinquencies;. - \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tProblem assets and foreclosures; or. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tDecreases in:. - \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tDemand for the Bank’s products and services;. - \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tDecreases in customer borrowing power that is caused by declines in the value of assets and/or collateral supporting the Bank’s loans, especially real estate.. During the years 2007 through 2009, the general economic conditions and specific business conditions in the United States, including Fairfield County, Connecticut and the New York metropolitan area deteriorated, resulting in increases in loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures, and declines in the value and collateral associated with the Bank’s loans. During 2010 through 2017, however, the economic climate improved gradually, contributing to decreases in the Bank’s non-performing assets.. 10. The Bank’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses.. Like all financial institutions, the Bank maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. The allowance for loan losses is based on an evaluation of the risks associated with the Bank’s loans receivable, as well as the Bank’s prior loss experience. Deterioration in general economic conditions and unforeseen risks affecting customers could have an adverse effect on borrowers’ capacity to timely repay their obligations before risk grades could reflect those changing conditions. Maintaining the adequacy of the Bank’s allowance for loan losses may require that the Bank make significant and unanticipated increases in the provision for loan losses, which would materially affect the results of operations and capital adequacy. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating, and other conditions including changes in interest rates that may be beyond the Bank’s control and which losses may exceed current allowance estimates. Although the current economic environment has improved, conditions remain uncertain and may result in additional risk of loan losses.. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review the Bank’s loan portfolio and assess the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. The regulatory agencies may require the Bank to change classifications or grades on loans, increase the allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional loan loss provisions, or to recognize further loan charge-offs based upon their judgments, which may differ from the Bank’s. Any increase in the allowance for loan losses required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on the Bank’s results of operations and financial condition. While management believes that the allowance for loan losses is currently adequate to cover inherent losses, further loan deterioration could occur, and therefore, management cannot assure shareholders that there will not be a need to increase the allowance for loan losses, or that the regulators will not require management to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect Patriot’s earnings and profitability.. Patriot is subject to certain risks with respect to liquidity.. \"Liquidity\" refers to Patriot’s ability to generate sufficient cash flows to support its operations and fulfill its obligations, including commitments by the Bank to originate loans, to repay its wholesale borrowings and other liabilities, and to satisfy the withdrawal of deposits by its customers.. Patriot’s primary sources of liquidity are the deposits the Bank acquires organically through its branch network, borrowed funds, primarily in the form of wholesale borrowings, and the cash flows generated through the collection of loan payments and on mortgage-related securities. In addition, depending on current market conditions, Patriot may have the ability to access the capital markets.. Deposit flows, calls of investment securities and wholesale borrowings, and prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities are strongly influenced by such external factors as the direction of interest rates, whether actual or perceived; local and national economic conditions; and competition for deposits and loans in the markets served. Furthermore, changes to the underwriting guidelines for wholesale borrowings, or lending policies may limit or restrict Patriot’s ability to borrow, and could therefore have a significant adverse impact on its liquidity. A decline in available funding could adversely impact Patriot’s ability to originate loans, invest in securities, and meet its expenses, or to fulfill such obligations as repaying its borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands.. 11. The Bank’s business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect the Bank’s financial performance.. Patriot is unable to predict, with any degree of certainty, fluctuations of market interest rates, which are affected by many factors including inflation, recession, a rise in unemployment, a tightening money supply, domestic and international disorder, and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce Patriot’s profits. Patriot realizes income from the differential or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, securities, and other interest-earning assets and interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest-bearing liabilities. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. In addition, an increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the ability of some borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. Although Patriot has implemented strategies which are designed to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on operations, these strategies may not always be successful. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect Patriot’s net interest spread, asset quality, levels of prepayments, and cash flow, as well as the market value of its securities portfolio and overall profitability.. Patriot’s investment portfolio includes securities that are sensitive to interest rates and variations in interest rates may adversely impact Patriot’s profitability.. Patriot’s security portfolio is classified as available-for-sale, and is comprised primarily of corporate debt and mortgage-backed securities, which are insured or guaranteed by the U.S. Government. These securities are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. Unrealized gains or losses in the available-for-sale portfolio of securities are reported as a separate component of shareholders’ equity. As a result, future interest rate fluctuations may impact shareholders’ equity, causing material fluctuations from quarter to quarter. The inability to hold its securities until market conditions are favorable for a sale, or until payments are received on mortgage-backed securities, could adversely affect Patriot’s earnings and profitability.. Patriot is dependent on its locally-based management team and the loss of its senior executive officers or other key employees could impair its relationship with its customers and adversely affect its business and financial results.. The Bank’s success is dependent upon the continued services and skills of its long-term locally-based management team. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of these key personnel, because of their skills, knowledge of the Bank’s market, years of industry experience, and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel could have an adverse impact on the Bank’s business.. Patriot’s success also depends, in part, on its continued ability to attract and retain experienced commercial lenders and retail bankers, as well as other management personnel. The loss of services of several such key personnel could adversely affect Patriot’s growth and prospects, to the extent replacement personnel are not able to be identified and promptly retained. Competition for commercial lenders and retail bankers is strong, and Patriot may not be successful in retaining or attracting such personnel.. 12. Patriot is subject to certain general affirmative debt covenants, which if it cannot comply, may result in default and actions taken against it by its debt holders.. In December 2016, the Company issued $12 million of senior notes (the “Senior Notes”) that contain certain affirmative covenants, which require the Company to: maintain its and its subsidiaries’ legal entity and tax status, pay its income tax obligations on a timely basis, and comply with SEC and FDIC reporting requirements. The Senior Notes are unsecured, rank equally with all other senior obligations of the Company, are not redeemable nor may they be put to the Company by the holders of the notes, and require no payment of principal until maturity.. The affirmative covenants contained in the Senior Note agreements are of a general nature and not uncommon in such debt agreements. Management does not anticipate an inability to maintain its compliance with the affirmative covenants contained in the notes as such compliance is inherent in the Bank’s continued operation and Patriot’s public company status, as well as management’s overall strategic plan.. A breach of information security could negatively affect Patriot’s earnings.. Patriot increasingly depends upon data processing, communications, and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks, and the internet to conduct its business. Patriot cannot be certain that all of its systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack, despite safeguards it has instituted. In addition, Patriot relies on the services of a variety of vendors to meet its data processing and communication needs. If information security is breached, information can be lost or misappropriated and could result in financial loss or costs to Patriot, or damages to others. These financial losses or costs could materially exceed the amount of Patriot’s insurance coverage, if applicable, which would have an adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the Bank’s reputation could suffer if its database were breached, which could materially affect Patriot’s financial condition and results of operations.. The Bank is subject to environmental liability risk associated with its lending activities.. A significant portion of the Bank’s loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, the Bank may foreclose on, and take title to, properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties, which may make Patriot liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. In addition, Patriot owns and operates certain properties that may be subject to similar environmental liability risks.. Environmental laws may require the Bank to incur substantial expense and may materially reduce the affected property's value, or limit the Bank’s ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase the Bank’s exposure to environmental liability. Although the Bank has policies and procedures requiring the performance of an environmental site assessment before loan approval or initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these assessments may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on Patriot’s financial condition and results of operations.. 13. The Company relies on the dividends it receives from its subsidiary.. The Company is a separate and distinct legal entity from the Bank. The Company’s primary source of revenue is the dividends it receives from the Bank, which cash flow the Company uses to fund its activities, meet its obligations, and remit dividends to its shareholders. Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that a bank may pay to its parent company. In addition, the Company’s right to participate in a distribution of assets, upon liquidation or reorganization of the Bank or another regulated subsidiary, may be subordinate to claims by the Bank’s or subsidiary's creditors. If the Bank were to be restricted from paying dividends to the Company, the Company’s ability to fund its activities, meet its obligations, or pay dividends to its shareholders might be curtailed. The inability to receive dividends from the Bank could therefore have a material adverse effect on the Company.. The price of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate.. The market price of the Company’s common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to changes in sentiment in the market regarding the Company’s operations or business prospects. Among other factors, the Company’s stock price may be affected by:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tOperating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tDevelopments in its business or in the financial services sector in-general;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tRegulatory or legislative changes affecting its business or the financial services sector in-general;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tOperating results or securities price performance of companies that investors consider being comparable to the Company;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tChanges in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts or rating agencies;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tAnnouncements of strategic developments, acquisitions, dispositions, financings, and other material events by the Company or the Company’s competitors; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tChanges or volatility in global financial markets and economies, general market conditions, interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity, credit, or asset valuations.. 14. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected the Company’s industry.. The Company is exposed to general downturns in the U.S. economy, and particularly downturns in the local Connecticut and New York markets in which it operates. Two significant impacts resulting from the financial crisis included the housing market suffering falling home prices leading to increased foreclosures and our customer base experiencing rampant unemployment and sustained under-employment. These conditions negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans, and resulted in significant asset-value write-downs by financial institutions, including government-sponsored enterprises, as well as major commercial and investment banks. The loss of mortgage and construction loan asset-value caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and financially stronger financial institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Many lenders and institutional investors reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. This market turmoil, and the tightening of credit by the Fed, led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility, and generally widespread reductions in business activity. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects these difficult market conditions have had on the Company and other financial institutions. In particular:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tLess than optimal economic conditions may continue to affect market confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, thereby causing increased delinquencies, which could affect the Bank’s provision for loan losses and charge-off of loans receivable.. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe ability to assess the creditworthiness of the Bank’s customers, or to accurately estimate loan collateral value, may be impaired if the models and approaches the Bank uses becomes less predictive of future behaviors, valuations, assumptions, or estimates due to the unpredictable economic climate.. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tIncreasing consolidation of financial services companies, as a result of current market conditions, could have unexpected adverse effects on the Bank’s ability to compete effectively.. The Bank may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums, special assessments, or taxes that could adversely affect its earnings.. Market developments have significantly impacted the insurance fund of the FDIC. As a result, the Bank may be required to pay higher premiums, or special assessments, that could adversely affect earnings. The amount of premiums the FDIC requires for the insurance coverage it provides is outside the Bank’s control. If there are additional banks or financial institution failures, the Bank may be required to pay higher FDIC premiums than are currently assessed. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums, including any future increases or required prepayments, may materially adversely affect the Bank’s results of operations.. Patriot is subject to risks associated with taxation.. The amount of income taxes Patriot is required to pay on its earnings is based on federal and state legislation and regulations. Patriot provides for current and deferred taxes in its financial statements, based on the results of operations, business activity, legal structure, interpretation of tax statutes, assessment of risk of adjustment upon audit, and application of financial accounting standards. Patriot may take tax return filing positions for which the final determination of tax is uncertain. Patriot’s net income or loss and the related amount per share may be reduced, if a federal, state, or local tax authority assesses additional taxes, penalties, or interest that has not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. There can be no assurance that Patriot will achieve its anticipated effective tax rate, due to a change in a tax law, or the result of a tax audit that disallows previously recognized tax benefits.. 15. Risks associated with changes in technology.. Financial products and services have become increasingly technology-driven. The Bank’s ability to compete for new and meet the needs of existing customers, in a cost-efficient manner, is dependent on its ability to keep pace with technological advances and to invest in new technology as it becomes available. Many of the Bank’s competitors have greater resources to invest in technology and may be better equipped to market new technology-driven products and services. Failing to keep pace with technological change could have a material adverse impact on the Bank’s business and therefore on Patriot’s financial condition and results of operations.. Strong competition in Patriot’s geographical market could limit growth and profitability.. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. Fairfield County, Connecticut and the New York City metropolitan areas have a high concentration of financial institutions including large money center and regional banks, community banks, and credit unions. Some of Patriot’s competitors offer products and services that the Bank currently does not offer, such as private banking and trust services. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the Bank, and may offer certain services that Patriot does not or cannot provide. Price competition might result in the Bank earning less on its loans and paying more for deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Patriot expects competition to increase in the future, as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes. Patriot’s profitability depends upon its continued ability to successfully compete in its geographical market.. Government regulation may have an adverse effect on Patriot’s profitability and growth.. Patriot is subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by the OCC as the Bank’s chartering authority, the FDIC as the insurer of its deposits, and the Fed as its primary regulator. Changes in federal and state banking laws and regulations, or in federal monetary policies, could adversely affect the Bank’s profitability and continued growth. In light of recent events, legislative and regulatory changes are expected, but cannot be predicted. For example, new legislation or regulation could limit the manner in which Patriot may conduct its business, including the Bank’s ability to obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans, and achieve satisfactory interest spreads. The laws, regulations, interpretations, and enforcement policies that apply to Patriot have been subject to significant, and sometimes retroactively applied, changes in recent years, and are likely to change significantly in the future.. Legislation enacted by the U.S. Congress, proposing significant structural reforms to the financial services industry, has, among other things, created the CFPB, which is given broad authority to regulate financial service providers and financial products. In addition, the Fed has passed guidance on incentive compensation at financial institutions it regulates and the United States Department of the Treasury and federal banking regulators have issued statements calling for higher capital and liquidity requirements. Complying with any new legislative or regulatory requirements and any programs established thereunder by federal and state governments, could have an adverse impact on Patriot’s operations and the results thereof.. 16. Changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure.. Patriot is subject to laws, regulations, and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, SEC rules and regulations, and NASDAQ rules. These laws, regulations, and standards are subject to varying interpretations, and as a result, their practical application may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. Due to the evolving legal and regulatory environment, compliance may become more difficult and result in higher costs. Patriot is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, Patriot’s efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Patriot’s reputation may be harmed, if it does not continue to comply with these laws, regulations and standards.. The earnings of financial institutions are significantly affected by general business and economic conditions.. As a financial institution, Patriot’s operations and profitability are impacted by general business and economic conditions in the United States and abroad. These conditions include short- and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, and the overall strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in which it operates, all of which conditions are beyond Patriot’s control. In recent years, the financial services industry has experienced unprecedented upheaval, including the failure of some of the World’s leading financial institutions. Further deterioration in economic conditions could result in an increase in loan delinquencies and non-performing assets, decreases in loan collateral values, and a decrease in demand for the Bank’s products and services, among other things, any of which could have a material adverse impact on Patriot’s results of operations and financial condition. Patriot cannot currently predict or implement plans to mitigate the effects of unknown future industry developments.. 17. The Company is a “Controlled Company” within the meaning of the NASDAQ U.S. Market Rules and Regulations and, as a result, the Company qualifies for, and relies on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements.. Holdings controls a majority of the Company’s voting common stock. As a result, the Company is a “Controlled Company” within the meaning of Nasdaq corporate governance standards. Under the Nasdaq Rules and Regulations, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group or another company is considered a “Controlled Company”, which may utilize exemptions relating to certain Nasdaq corporate governance requirements, including:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tRequiring the Board of Directors to be comprised of Independent Directors (as defined);. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe requirement that the Company have a Nominating and Governance Committee that is composed entirely of independent directors;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe requirement that the Company have a Compensation Committee that is composed entirely of independent directors; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe requirement for an annual performance evaluation of the Nominating and Governance and Compensation Committees.. As a result of these exemptions, the Company’s Nominating and Governance Committee and Compensation Committee do not consist entirely of independent directors and the Company is not required to have an annual performance evaluation of the Nominating and Governance and Compensation Committees. Accordingly, a holder of its common stock will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NASDAQ corporate governance requirements."                                                                    
