[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors which could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional factors not presently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition or results of operations in future periods.. Economic and business conditions beyond Patrick's control, including cyclicality and seasonality in the industries it sells products, could lead to fluctuations in and negatively impact operating results.. The RV, MH, marine and industrial markets in which we operate are subject to cycles of growth and contraction in consumer demand, and volatility in production levels, shipments, sales and operating results, due to external factors such as general economic conditions, consumer confidence, employment rates, financing availability, interest rates, inflation, fuel prices, and other economic conditions affecting consumer demand and discretionary spending. Periods of economic recession and downturns have adversely affected our business and operating results in the past, and have potential to adversely impact our future results. Consequently, the results for any prior period may not be indicative of results for any future period.  In addition, fluctuation in demand could adversely affect our management of inventory, which could lead to an inability to meet customer needs or a charge for obsolete inventory.. Sales in the RV, marine and MH industries historically have been seasonal and are generally at the highest levels when the weather is moderate. However, seasonal industry trends in the past several years have differed from prior years, primarily due to volatile economic conditions, fluctuations in RV dealer inventories, changing dealer show schedules, interest rates, access to financing, the cost of fuel, and increased demand from RV dealers. Consequently, future seasonal trends may differ from prior years.  In addition, unusually severe weather conditions may impact the timing of industry-wide shipments from one period to another and lead to unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results.. If the financial condition of our customers and suppliers deteriorate, our business and operating results could suffer.. The markets we serve have been highly sensitive to changes in the economic environment. Weakening conditions in the economy, or the lack of available financing in the credit market, could cause the financial condition of our customers and suppliers to deteriorate, which could negatively affect our business through the loss of sales or the inability to meet our commitments. Many of our customers participate in highly competitive markets and their financial condition may deteriorate as a result. In addition, a decline in the financial condition of our customers could hinder our ability to collect amounts owed by customers.. Although we have a large number of customers, our sales are significantly concentrated with two customers, the loss of either of which could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition.. Two customers in the RV market accounted for a combined 57% of our consolidated net sales in 2017. The loss of either of these customers could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. We. 12. do not have long-term agreements with our customers and cannot predict that we will maintain our current relationships with these customers or that we will continue to supply them at current levels.. Changes in consumer preferences relating to our products could adversely impact our sales levels and our operating results.. Changes in consumer preferences, or our inability to anticipate changes in consumer preferences for RVs or manufactured homes, or for the products we make could reduce demand for our products and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. A significant percentage of the Company's sales are concentrated in the RV industry, and declines in the level of RV unit shipments or reductions in industry growth could reduce demand for our products and adversely impact our operating results and financial condition.. In 2017 and 2016, the Company's net sales to the RV industry were approximately 69% and 72%, respectively, of consolidated net sales. While the Company measures its RV Segment sales against industry-wide wholesale shipment statistics, the underlying health of the RV industry is determined by retail demand. Retail sales of RVs historically have been closely tied to general economic conditions, as well as consumer confidence, which has been on an upward trend since 2010. Future declines in RV unit shipment levels or reductions in industry growth could significantly reduce the Company's revenue from the RV industry and have a material adverse impact on its operating results in 2018 and other future periods.. The RV, MH and marine industries are highly competitive and some of our competitors may have greater resources than we do.. We operate in a highly competitive business environment and our sales could be negatively impacted by our inability to maintain or increase prices, changes in geographic or product mix, or the decision of our customers to purchase our competitors' products or to produce in-house products that we currently produce. We compete not only with other suppliers to the RV, MH and marine producers, but also with suppliers to traditional site-built homebuilders and suppliers of cabinetry and countertops. Sales could also be affected by pricing, purchasing, financing, advertising, operational, promotional, or other decisions made by purchasers of our products. Additionally, we cannot control the decisions made by suppliers of our distributed and manufactured products and therefore, our ability to maintain our distribution arrangements may be adversely impacted.. The greater financial resources or the lower level of debt or financial leverage of certain of our competitors may enable them to commit larger amounts of capital in response to changing market conditions. Competitors may develop innovative new products that could put the Company at a competitive disadvantage. If we are unable to compete successfully against other manufacturers and suppliers to the RV, MH and marine industries, we could lose customers and sales could decline, or we may not be able to improve or maintain profit margins on sales to customers or be able to continue to compete successfully in our core markets.. Conditions in the credit market could limit the ability of consumers to obtain retail financing for RVs, manufactured homes, and marine products, resulting in reduced demand for our products.. Restrictions on the availability of consumer financing for RVs, manufactured homes and marine products and increases in the costs of such financing have in the past limited, and could again limit, the ability of consumers to purchase such products, which would result in reduced production by our customers, and therefore reduce demand for our products.. Loans used to finance the purchase of manufactured homes usually have shorter terms and higher interest rates, and are more difficult to obtain, than mortgages for site-built homes. Historically, lenders required a higher down payment, higher credit scores and other criteria for these loans. Current lending criteria are more stringent than historical criteria, and many potential buyers of manufactured homes may not qualify.. 13. The availability, cost, and terms of these manufactured housing loans are also dependent on economic conditions, lending practices of financial institutions, government policies, and other factors, all of which are beyond our control. Reductions in the availability of financing for manufactured homes and increases in the costs of this financing have limited, and could continue to limit, the ability of consumers to purchase manufactured homes, resulting in reduced production of manufactured homes by our customers, and therefore reduced demand for our products. In addition, certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, which regulate financial transactions, could make certain types of loans more difficult to obtain, including those historically used to finance the purchase of manufactured homes.. The manufactured housing industry has experienced a significant long-term decline in shipments, which has led to reduced demand for our products.. Our MH Segment, which accounted for 13% of consolidated net sales for 2017, operates in an industry which has experienced a significant decline in production of new homes compared to the last peak production level in 1998. The downturn was caused, in part, by limited availability and high cost of financing for manufactured homes, and was exacerbated by economic and political conditions during the financial crisis. Although industry-wide wholesale production of manufactured homes has improved somewhat in recent years, a worsening of conditions in the MH market could have a material adverse impact on our operating results.. Fuel shortages or high prices for fuel could have an adverse impact on our operations.. The products produced by the RV and marine industries typically require gasoline or diesel fuel for their operation, or the use of a vehicle requiring gasoline or diesel fuel for their operation. There can be no assurance that the supply of gasoline and diesel fuel will continue uninterrupted or that the price or tax on fuel will not significantly increase in the future. Shortages of gasoline and diesel fuel, and substantial increases in the price of fuel, have had a material adverse effect on our business and the RV industry as a whole in the past and could have a material adverse effect on our business in the future.. We are dependent on third-party suppliers and manufacturers.. Generally, our raw materials, supplies and energy requirements are obtained from various sources and in the quantities desired. While alternative sources are available, our business is subject to the risk of price increases and periodic delays in delivery. Fluctuations in prices may be driven by the supply/demand relationship for that commodity, governmental regulation, tariffs or other cross-border taxes, economic conditions in other countries, religious holidays, natural disasters, and other events. In addition, if any of our suppliers seek bankruptcy relief or otherwise cannot continue their business as anticipated, the availability or price of these requirements could be adversely affected.. If we cannot effectively manage the challenges and risks associated with doing business internationally, our revenues and profitability may suffer.. We purchase a significant portion of our raw materials and other supplies from suppliers located in Indonesia, China, Malaysia and Canada. As a result, our ability to obtain raw materials and supplies on favorable terms and in a timely fashion are subject to a variety of risks, including fluctuations in foreign currencies, changes in the economic strength of the foreign countries in which we do business, difficulties in enforcing contractual obligations and intellectual property rights, compliance burdens associated with a wide variety of international and U.S. import laws, and social, political, and economic instability. Our business with our international suppliers could be adversely affected by restrictions on travel to and from any of the countries in which we do business due to a health epidemic or outbreak or other event.  Additional risks associated with our foreign business include restrictive trade policies, imposition of duties, taxes, or government royalties by foreign governments, and compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and local anti-bribery laws. Any such proposals or measures could negatively impact our relations with our international suppliers and the volume of shipments to the U.S. from these countries, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results.. 14. Any increased cost and limited availability of certain raw materials may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Prices of certain materials, including gypsum, lauan, particleboard, MDF, aluminum and other commodity products, can be volatile and change dramatically with changes in supply and demand. Certain products are purchased from overseas and their availability is dependent upon weather conditions, seasonal and religious holidays, political unrest, economic conditions overseas, natural disasters, vessel shipping schedules and port availability. Further, our commodity product suppliers sometimes operate at or near capacity, resulting in some products having the potential of being put on allocation. We generally have been able to maintain adequate supplies of materials and to pass higher material costs on to our customers in the form of surcharges and base price increases where needed. However, it is not certain future price increases can be passed on to our customers without affecting demand or that limited availability of materials will not impact our production capabilities. Our sales levels and operating results could be negatively impacted by changes in any of these items.. If we are unable to manage our inventory, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected.. Our customers generally do not maintain long-term supply contracts and, therefore, we must bear the risk of advanced estimation of customer orders. We maintain an inventory to support these customers' needs. Changes in demand, market conditions and/or product specifications could result in material obsolescence and a lack of alternative markets for certain of our customer specific products and could negatively impact operating results.. We could incur charges for impairment of assets, including goodwill and other long-lived assets, due to potential declines in the fair value of those assets or a decline in expected profitability of the Company or individual reporting units of the Company.. Approximately 68% of our total assets as of December 31, 2017 were comprised of goodwill, intangible assets, and property, plant and equipment. Under generally accepted accounting principles, each of these assets is subject to periodic review and testing to determine whether the asset is recoverable or realizable. The events or changes that could require us to test our goodwill and intangible assets for impairment include changes in our estimated future cash flows, changes in rates of growth in our industry or in any of our reporting units, and decreases in our stock price and market capitalization.. In the future, if sales demand or market conditions change from those projected by management, asset write-downs may be required. Significant impairment charges, although not always affecting current cash flow, could have a material effect on our operating results and financial position.. Increases in demand for our products could make it more difficult for us to obtain additional skilled labor, which may adversely impact our operating efficiencies.. In certain geographic regions in which we have manufacturing facilities, we are experiencing shortages of qualified employees, which negatively impacted our cost of goods sold in 2017 and 2016. Labor shortages and continued competition for qualified employees may increase, especially during improving economic times, the cost of our labor and create employee retention and recruitment challenges, as employees with knowledge and experience have the ability to change employers more easily.. If demand continues to increase, we may not be able to increase production to timely satisfy demand, and may initially incur higher labor and production costs, which could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results.. We may incur significant charges or be adversely impacted by the consolidation and/or closure of all or part of a manufacturing or distribution facility.. We periodically assess the cost structure of our operating facilities to distribute and/or manufacture products in the most efficient manner. We may make capital investments to move, discontinue manufacturing and/or distribution. 15. capabilities, or products and product lines, sell or close all or part of additional manufacturing and/or distribution facilities in the future. These changes could result in significant future charges or disruptions in our operations, and we may not achieve the expected benefits from these changes, which could result in an adverse impact on our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition.. We are subject to governmental and environmental regulations, and failure in our compliance efforts, changes to such laws and regulations or events beyond our control could result in damages, expenses or liabilities that individually, or in the aggregate, would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Some of our manufacturing processes involve the use, handling, storage and contracting for recycling or disposal of hazardous or toxic substances or wastes. Accordingly, we are subject to various governmental and environmental laws and regulations regarding these substances, as well as environmental requirements relating to air, water and noise pollution. The implementation of new laws and regulations or amendments to existing regulations could significantly increase the cost of the Company's products. We cannot presently determine what, if any, legislation may be adopted by federal, state or local governing bodies, or the effect any such legislation may have on our customers or us. Failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines or potential civil or criminal liability. Both scenarios could negatively impact our results of operations or financial condition.. The inability to attract and retain qualified executive officers and key personnel may adversely affect our operations.. While we include succession planning as part of our ongoing talent development and management process to help ensure the continuity of our business model, the loss of any of our executive officers or other key personnel could reduce our ability to manage our business and strategic plan in the short-term and could cause our sales and operating results to decline. In addition, our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to attract and retain executive management, key employees, and other qualified personnel.. Our ability to integrate acquired businesses may adversely affect operations.. As part of our business and strategic plan, we look for strategic acquisitions to provide shareholder value. Any acquisition will require the effective integration of an existing business and certain of its administrative, financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, and other functions to maximize synergies. Acquired businesses involve a number of risks that may affect our financial performance, including increased leverage, diversion of management resources, assumption of liabilities of the acquired businesses, and possible corporate culture conflicts. If we are unable to successfully integrate these acquisitions, we may not realize the benefits identified in our due diligence process, and our financial results may be negatively impacted. Additionally, significant unexpected liabilities could arise from these acquisitions.. Our level of indebtedness could limit our operational flexibility and harm our financial condition and results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $354.4 million of total long-term debt, exclusive of deferred financing costs, outstanding under our then $450.0 million revolving credit facility (the \"2015 Credit Facility\") that was established pursuant to our current credit agreement, as amended (the \"2015 Credit Agreement\").. Our level of indebtedness could have adverse consequences on our future operations, including making it more difficult for us to meet our payments on outstanding debt, and we may not be able to find alternative financing sources to replace our indebtedness in such an event. Our level of indebtedness could: (i) reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limit our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; (ii) limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; (iii) place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged; and (iv) create concerns about our credit quality which could result in the loss of supplier contracts and/or customers. Our ability to. 16. satisfy our debt obligations will depend on our future operating performance which may be affected by factors beyond our control.. Our 2015 Credit Agreement contains various financial performance and other covenants. If we do not remain in compliance with these covenants, our 2015 Credit Agreement could be terminated and the amounts outstanding thereunder could become immediately due and payable.. We have debt outstanding that contains financial and non-financial covenants with which we must comply that place restrictions on us. There can be no assurance that we will maintain compliance with the financial covenants under our 2015 Credit Agreement. These covenants require that we comply with a maximum level of a consolidated total leverage ratio and a minimum level of a consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio. If we fail to comply with the covenants contained in our 2015 Credit Agreement, the lenders could cause our debt to become due and payable prior to maturity or it could result in our having to refinance the indebtedness under unfavorable terms. If our debt were accelerated, our assets might not be sufficient to repay our debt in full and there can be no assurance that we would be able to refinance any or all of this indebtedness.. Due to industry conditions and our operating results, there have been times in the past when we have had limited access to sources of capital. If we are unable to locate suitable sources of capital when needed, we may be unable to maintain or expand our business.. We depend on our cash balances, our cash flows from operations, and our 2015 Credit Facility to finance our operating requirements, capital expenditures and other needs. If a significant economic recession occurred, such as the recession that impacted the economy in 2007-2010, production of RVs and manufactured homes could decline, resulting in reduced demand for our products. A decline in our operating results could negatively impact our liquidity. If our cash balances, cash flows from operations, and availability under our 2015 Credit Facility are insufficient to finance our operations and alternative capital is not available, we may not be able to expand our business and make acquisitions, or we may need to curtail or limit our existing operations.. We have letters of credit representing collateral for our casualty insurance programs and for general operating purposes that have been issued under our 2015 Credit Agreement. The inability to retain our current letters of credit, to obtain alternative letter of credit sources, or to retain our 2015 Credit Agreement to support these programs could require us to post cash collateral, reduce the amount of cash available for our operations, or cause us to curtail or limit existing operations.. The conditional conversion feature of the Convertible Senior Notes due 2023 (the \"Convertible Notes\") that we entered into in January 2018, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. In the event the conditional conversion feature of the Convertible Notes is triggered, holders of Convertible Notes will be entitled to convert the Convertible Notes at any time during specified periods at their option.  If one or more holders elect to convert their Convertible Notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we would be required to settle a portion or all of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their Convertible Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the Convertible Notes as a current rather than long-term liability.  See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details.. The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as the Convertible Notes, could have a material effect on our reported financial results.. In May 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the \"FASB\"), issued FASB Staff Position No. APB 14-1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash Upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement), which has subsequently been codified as Accounting Standards Codification 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options, which we refer to as ASC 470-20. Under ASC 470-20, an entity must separately. 17. account for the liability and equity components of convertible debt instruments (such as the Convertible Notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuer's economic interest cost. The effect of ASC 470-20 on the accounting for the Convertible Notes is that the equity component is required to be included in the additional paid-in capital section of shareholders' equity on our consolidated balance sheet, and the value of the equity component would be treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the Convertible Notes. As a result, we will be required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense than in current periods presented as a result of the amortization of the discounted carrying value of the Convertible Notes to their face amount over the term of the Convertible Notes. We will report lower net income in our financial results because ASC 470-20 will require interest to include both the current period's amortization of the debt discount and the instrument's coupon interest, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results, the trading price of our common stock and the trading price of the Convertible Notes.. In addition, under certain circumstances, convertible debt instruments (such as the Convertible Notes) that may be settled entirely or partly in cash are currently accounted for utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that the shares issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of the Convertible Notes exceeds their principal amount. Under the treasury stock method, for diluted earnings per share purposes, the transaction is accounted for as if the number of shares of common stock that would be necessary to settle such excess, if we elected to settle such excess in shares, are issued. We cannot be certain that the accounting standards in the future will continue to permit the use of the treasury stock method. If we are unable to use the treasury stock method in accounting for the shares issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes, then our diluted earnings per share would be adversely affected.. The convertible note hedge and warrant transactions may affect the value of the Convertible Notes and our common stock.. In connection with the pricing of the Convertible Notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions with certain of the initial purchasers and/or their respective affiliates (the \"option counterparties\"). We also have entered into warrant transactions with the option counterparties. The convertible note hedge transactions are expected generally to reduce the potential dilution upon conversion of the Convertible Notes and/or offset any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of converted notes, as the case may be. However, the warrant transactions could separately have a dilutive effect on our common stock to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the strike price of the warrants.. In addition, the option counterparties or their respective affiliates may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivatives with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions following the pricing of the Convertible Notes and prior to the maturity of the Convertible Notes (and are likely to do so during any observation period related to a conversion of Convertible Notes). This activity could cause or avoid an increase or a decrease in the market price of our common stock or the Convertible Notes, which could affect a holder's ability to convert the Convertible Notes and, to the extent the activity occurs during any observation period related to a conversion of Convertible Notes, it could affect the number of shares and value of the consideration that a holder will receive upon conversion of the Convertible Notes.. A variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, could influence fluctuations in the market price for our common stock.. The stock market, in general, experiences volatility that has often been unrelated to the underlying operating performance of companies. If this volatility continues, the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly, independent of our actual operating performance. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following:. • variations in our and our competitors' operating results;. • high concentration of shares held by institutional investors;. 18. • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments;. • announcements by us or our competitors of technological improvements or new products;. • the gain or loss of significant customers;. • additions or departures of key personnel;. • events affecting other companies that the market deems comparable to us;. • changes in investor perception of our business and/or management;. • changes in global economic conditions or general market conditions in the industries in which we operate;. • sales of our common stock held by certain equity investors or members of management;. • issuance of our common stock or debt securities by the Company; and. • the occurrence of other events that are described in these risk factors.. If our information technology systems fail to perform adequately, our operations could be disrupted and could adversely affect our business, reputation and results of operation. We are increasingly dependent on digital technology, including information systems and related infrastructure, to process and record financial and operating data, manage inventory and communicate with our employees and business partners.  We rely on our information technology systems to effectively manage our business data, inventory, supply chain, order entry and fulfillment, manufacturing, distribution, warranty administration, invoicing, collection of payments, and other business processes.   Our systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, telecommunications or internet failures, computer viruses and malicious attacks, security breaches and catastrophic events. If our systems are damaged or fail to function properly or reliably, we may incur substantial repair or replacement costs, experience data loss or theft and impediments to our ability to manage our business, which could adversely affect our results of operations.  Any such events could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or penalties under privacy laws, disruption in operations, and damage to our reputation, which could adversely affect our business.. In addition, we may be required to make significant technology investments to maintain and update our existing computer systems. Implementing significant system changes increases the risk of computer system disruption. The potential problems and interruptions associated with implementing technology initiatives could disrupt or reduce our operational efficiency.. A cyber incident or data breach could result in information theft, data corruption, operational disruption, and/or financial loss.. Our technologies, systems, networks, and those of our business partners have in the past and may in the future become the target of cyber-attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss, or destruction of proprietary and other information, or other disruption of our business operations.  A cyber-attack could include gaining unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption or result in denial of service on websites.  We have programs in place to detect, contain and respond to data security incidents. However, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures. Unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities, or those of third parties with whom we do business, through fraud, trickery, or other forms of deceiving our team members, contractors, vendors, and temporary staff.  In addition, hardware, software, or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security.  Any cyber-attack on our business could materially harm our business and operating results. The Company currently carries insurance to cover any exposure to this type of incident.  As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.  If we or our suppliers experience additional significant data security breaches or fail to detect and appropriately respond to significant data security breaches, we could be exposed to costly government enforcement actions and private litigation and our business and operating results could suffer.. 19. We are required to evaluate our internal controls over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and could have an adverse effect on our stock price.. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Such report contains, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. Each year we must prepare or update the process documentation and perform the evaluation needed to comply with Section 404. During this process, if our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that such internal control is effective. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. We and our independent auditors may in the future discover areas of our internal controls that need further attention and improvement, particularly with respect to any businesses that we decide to acquire in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Investor perception that our internal controls are inadequate or that we are unable to produce accurate financial statements on a timely, consistent basis may adversely affect our stock price. Failure to comply with Section 404 could also potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the SEC, NASDAQ, or other regulatory authorities.. Certain provisions in our Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-laws may delay, defer or prevent a change in control that our shareholders each might consider to be in their best interest.. Our Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-laws contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids. These provisions may delay, defer or prevent a change in control that our shareholders might consider to be in their best interest.. Conditions within the insurance markets could impact our ability to negotiate favorable terms and conditions for various liability coverage and could potentially result in uninsured losses.. We generally negotiate our insurance contracts annually for property, casualty, workers compensation, general liability, health insurance, and directors and officers liability coverage. Due to conditions within these insurance markets and other factors beyond our control, future coverage limits, terms and conditions and the amount of the related premiums could have a negative impact on our operating results. While we continually measure the risk/reward of policy limits and coverage, the lack of coverage in certain circumstances could result in potential uninsured losses."
