[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. You should consider each of the following factors as well as the other information in this Report in evaluating our business and our prospects.  Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations.  If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations could be harmed.  You should also refer to the other information set forth in this Report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes.. We Are Dependent on the Oil and Natural Gas Industry and Market Prices for Oil and Natural Gas.  Declines in Customers' Operating and Capital Expenditures and in Oil and Natural Gas Prices May Adversely Affect Our Operating Results.. We depend on our customers' willingness to make operating and capital expenditures to explore for, develop and produce oil and natural gas in North America.  When these expenditures decline, our business may suffer.  Our customers' willingness to explore, develop and produce depends largely upon prevailing industry conditions that are influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, such as:. •  the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, including current natural gas storage capacity and usage,. •  the prices, and expectations about future prices, of oil and natural gas,. •  the supply of and demand for drilling, pressure pumping and directional drilling services,. •  the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas,. •  the environmental, tax and other laws and governmental regulations regarding the exploration, development, production and delivery of oil and natural gas, and in particular, public pressure on, and legislative and regulatory interest within, federal, state, foreign, regional and local governments to stop, significantly limit or regulate drilling and pressure pumping activities, including hydraulic fracturing, and. •  merger and divestiture activity among oil and natural gas producers.. In particular, our revenue, profitability and cash flows are highly dependent upon prevailing prices for oil and natural gas and expectations about future prices.  For many years, oil and natural gas prices and markets have been extremely volatile.  Prices, and expectations about future prices, are affected by factors such as:. •  market supply and demand,. •  the desire and ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (\"OPEC\") to set and maintain production and price targets,. •  the level of production by OPEC and non-OPEC countries,. •  domestic and international military, political, economic and weather conditions,. •  legal and other limitations or restrictions on exportation and/or importation of oil and natural gas,. •  technical advances affecting energy consumption and production, and. 12. •  the price and availability of alternative fuels.. All of these factors are beyond our control.  The closing price of oil was as high as $107.95 per barrel in June 2014.  Prices began to fall in the third quarter of 2014 and reached a twelve-year low of $26.19 in February 2016.  As a result of the lower level of oil prices, our industry has experienced a severe decline in both contract drilling and pressure pumping activity levels.  While oil and natural gas prices modestly recovered since the first quarter of 2016, and we have experienced an increase in the demand for our services since 2016, our average number of rigs operating remains well below the number of our available rigs, and a portion of our pressure pumping horsepower remains stacked.. We expect oil and natural gas prices to continue to be volatile and to affect our financial condition, operations and ability to access sources of capital.  Higher oil and natural gas prices do not necessarily result in increased activity because demand for our services is generally driven by our customers' expectations of future oil and natural gas prices.  A decline in demand for oil and natural gas, prolonged low oil or natural gas prices or expectations of decreases in oil and natural gas prices, would likely result in reduced capital expenditures by our customers and decreased demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Even during periods of high prices for oil and natural gas, companies exploring for oil and natural gas may cancel or curtail programs, or reduce their levels of capital expenditures for exploration and production for a variety of reasons, which could reduce demand for our services.. Global Economic Conditions May Adversely Affect Our Operating Results.. Global economic conditions and volatility in commodity prices may cause our customers to reduce or curtail their drilling and well completion programs, which could result in a decrease in demand for our services.  In addition, uncertainty in the capital markets, whether due to global economic conditions, low commodity prices or otherwise may result in reduced access to, or an inability to obtain, financing by us, our customers and our suppliers and result in reduced demand for our services.  Furthermore, these factors may result in certain of our customers experiencing an inability or unwillingness to pay suppliers, including us.  The global economic environment in the past has experienced significant deterioration in a relatively short period, and there is no assurance that the global economic environment will not quickly deteriorate again due to one or more factors, including a decline in the price for oil or natural gas.  A deterioration in the global economic environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Excess Equipment and a Highly Competitive Oil Service Industry May Adversely Affect Our Utilization and Profit Margins and the Carrying Value of our Assets.. The North American land drilling and pressure pumping businesses are highly competitive, and at times available land drilling rigs and pressure pumping equipment exceed the demand for such equipment.  A low commodity price environment can result in substantially more drilling rigs and pressure pumping equipment being available than are needed to meet demand.  In addition, in recent years there has been a substantial increase in the construction of new technology drilling rigs and new pressure pumping equipment and the improvement of existing drilling rigs.  Low commodity prices and construction of new equipment and the improvement of existing drilling rigs can result in excess capacity and substantial competition for a declining number of drilling and pressure pumping contracts.  Even in an environment of high oil and natural gas prices and increased drilling activity, reactivation and improvement of existing drilling rigs and pressure pumping equipment, construction of new technology drilling rigs and new pressure pumping equipment, and movement of drilling rigs and pressure pumping equipment from region to region in response to market conditions or otherwise can lead to an excess supply of equipment.  In addition, we may be unable to replace fixed-term contracts that were terminated early, extend expiring contracts or obtain new contracts in the spot market, and the rates and other material terms under any new or extended contracts may be on substantially less favorable rates and terms.  Accordingly, high competition and excess equipment can cause drilling, pressure pumping and directional drilling contractors to have difficulty maintaining utilization and profit margins and, at times, result in operating losses.  We cannot predict the future level of competition or excess equipment in the oil and natural gas contract drilling, pressure pumping or directional drilling businesses or the level of demand for our contract drilling, pressure pumping or directional drilling services.. The excess supply of operable land drilling rigs, increasing rig specialization and excess pressure pumping and directional drilling equipment, which has been exacerbated by a decline in oil and natural gas prices could affect the fair market value of our drilling, pressure pumping and directional drilling equipment, which in turn could result in additional impairments of our assets.  A prolonged period of lower oil and natural gas prices could result in future impairment to our long-lived assets and goodwill.. 13. Our Operations Are Subject to a Number of Operational Risks, Including Environmental and Weather Risks, Which Could Expose Us to Significant Losses and Damage Claims.  We Are Not Fully Insured Against All of These Risks and Our Contractual Indemnity Provisions May Not Fully Protect Us.. Our operations are subject to many hazards inherent in the businesses in which we operate, including inclement weather, blowouts, well fires, loss of well control, pollution, exposure and reservoir damage.  These hazards could cause personal injury or death, work stoppage, and serious damage to equipment and other property, as well as significant environmental and reservoir damages.  These risks could expose us to substantial liability for personal injury, wrongful death, property damage, loss of oil and natural gas production, pollution and other environmental damages.. We have indemnification agreements with many of our customers, and we also maintain liability and other forms of insurance.  In general, our customer contracts typically contain provisions requiring our customers to indemnify us for, among other things, reservoir and certain pollution damage.  Our right to indemnification may, however, be unenforceable or limited due to negligent or willful acts or omissions by us, our subcontractors and/or suppliers.  In addition, certain states, including Louisiana, New Mexico, Texas and Wyoming, have enacted statutes generally referred to as \"oilfield anti-indemnity acts\" expressly prohibiting certain indemnity agreements contained in or related to oilfield services agreements.  Such oilfield anti-indemnity acts may restrict or void a party's indemnification of us.. Our customers and other third parties may dispute, or be unable to meet, their indemnification obligations to us due to financial, legal or other reasons.  Accordingly, we may be unable to transfer these risks to our customers and other third parties by contract or indemnification agreements.  Incurring a liability for which we are not fully indemnified or insured could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. We maintain insurance coverage of types and amounts that we believe to be customary in the industry, but we are not fully insured against all risks, either because insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs.  The insurance coverage that we maintain includes insurance for fire, windstorm and other risks of physical loss to our equipment and certain other assets, employer's liability, automobile liability, commercial general liability, workers' compensation and insurance for other specific risks.  We cannot assure, however, that any insurance obtained by us will be adequate to cover any losses or liabilities, or that this insurance will continue to be available or available on terms that are acceptable to us.  While we carry insurance to cover physical damage to, or loss of, a substantial portion of our equipment and certain other assets, such insurance does not cover the full replacement cost of such equipment or other assets.  We have also elected in some cases to accept a greater amount of risk through increased deductibles on certain insurance policies.  For example, we generally maintain a $1.5 million per occurrence deductible on our workers' compensation insurance coverage, a $1.0 million per occurrence deductible on our equipment insurance coverage, a $2.0 million per occurrence deductible on our general liability coverage, and a $2.0 million per occurrence deductible on our automobile liability insurance coverage.  We also self-insure a number of other risks, including loss of earnings and business interruption and cyber risks, and we do not carry a significant amount of insurance to cover risks of underground reservoir damage.. Our insurance will not in all situations provide sufficient funds to protect us from all liabilities that could result from our operations.  Our coverage includes aggregate policy limits and exclusions.  As a result, we retain the risk for any loss in excess of these limits or that is otherwise excluded from our coverage.  There can be no assurance that insurance will be available to cover any or all of our operational risks, or, even if available, that insurance premiums or other costs will not rise significantly in the future, so as to make the cost of such insurance prohibitive, or that our coverage will cover a specific loss.  Further, we may experience difficulties in collecting from insurers or such insurers may deny all or a portion of our claims for insurance coverage.  Incurring a liability for which we are not fully insured or indemnified could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. On January 22, 2018, an accident at a drilling site in Pittsburg County, Oklahoma resulted in the losses of life of five people, including three of our employees.  Based on the information we have available as of the date of this Report, we believe that we have adequate insurance to cover any losses, excluding the applicable insurance deductibles and investigation-related expenses.  However, if this accident is not, or another significant accident or other event occurs that is not, fully covered by insurance or an enforceable and recoverable indemnity from a third party, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. 14. Our Current Backlog of Contract Drilling Revenue May Decline and May Not Ultimately Be Realized, as Fixed-Term Contracts May in Certain Instances Be Terminated Without an Early Termination Payment.. Fixed-term drilling contracts customarily provide for termination at the election of the customer, with an early termination payment to us if a contract is terminated prior to the expiration of the fixed term.  However, in certain circumstances, for example, destruction of a drilling rig that is not replaced within a specified period of time, our bankruptcy, or a breach of our contract obligations, the customer may not be obligated to make an early termination payment to us.  Additionally, during depressed market conditions or otherwise, customers may be unable to satisfy their contractual obligations or may seek to terminate or renegotiate or otherwise fail to honor their contractual obligations.  In addition, we may not be able to perform under these contracts due to events beyond our control, and our customers may seek to terminate or renegotiate our contracts for various reasons, including those described above.  As a result, we may be unable to realize all of our current contract drilling backlog.  In addition, the termination or renegotiation of fixed-term contracts without the receipt of early termination payments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.  As of December 31, 2017, our contract drilling backlog for future revenues under term contracts, which we define as contracts with a fixed term of six months or more, was approximately $544 million.  Our contract drilling backlog may decline, as fixed-term drilling contract coverage over time may not be offset by new contracts, including as a result of the decline in the price of oil and natural gas, capital spending reductions by our customers or other factors.  For these and other reasons, our contract drilling backlog may not generate sufficient liquidity for us during periods of reduced demand for our services.. New Technologies May Cause Our Operating Methods, Equipment and Services to Become Less Competitive, and Higher Levels of Capital Expenditures May Be Necessary to Remain Competitive in Our Industry.. The market for our services is characterized by continual technological and process developments that have resulted in, and will likely continue to result in, substantial improvements in the functionality and performance of drilling rigs and other equipment.  Our customers are increasingly demanding the services of newer, higher specification drilling rigs and other equipment.  Accordingly, a higher level of capital expenditures may be required to maintain and improve existing rigs and other equipment and purchase and construct newer, higher specification drilling rigs and other equipment to meet the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers.  In addition, technological changes, process improvements and other factors that increase operational efficiencies could continue to result in oil and natural gas wells being drilled and completed more quickly, which could reduce the number of revenue earning days.  Technological and process developments in the pressure pumping and directional drilling businesses could have similar effects.. In recent years, we have added drilling rigs to our fleet through new construction, purchased new pressure pumping equipment and acquired a directional drilling services company.  We have also improved existing drilling rigs and pressure pumping equipment by adding equipment designed to enhance functionality and performance.  Although we take measures to ensure that we use advanced oil and natural gas drilling, pressure pumping and directional drilling technology, changes in technology, improvements in competitors' equipment and changes relating to the wells to be drilled and completed could make our equipment less competitive.. If we are not successful keeping pace with technological advances in a timely and cost-effective manner, demand for our services may decline.  If any technology that we need to successfully compete is not available to us or that we implement in the future does not work as we expect, we may be adversely affected.  Additionally, new technologies, services or standards could render some of our equipment and services obsolete, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operation.. Shortages, Delays in Delivery, and Interruptions in Supply, of Equipment and Materials Could Adversely Affect Our Operating Results.. During periods of increased demand for oilfield services, the industry has experienced shortages of equipment for upgrades, drill pipe, replacement parts and other equipment and materials, including, in the case of our pressure pumping operations, proppants, acid, gel and water.  These shortages can cause the price of these items to increase significantly and require that orders for the items be placed well in advance of expected use.  In addition, any interruption in supply could result in significant delays in delivery of equipment and materials or prevent operations.  Interruptions may be caused by, among other reasons:. •  weather issues, whether short-term such as a hurricane, or long-term such as a drought,. •  transportation and other logistical challenges, and. •  a shortage in the number of vendors able or willing to provide the necessary equipment and materials, including as a result of commitments of vendors to other customers or third parties or bankruptcies or consolidation.. These price increases, delays in delivery and interruptions in supply may require us to increase capital and repair expenditures and incur higher operating costs.  Severe shortages, delays in delivery and interruptions in supply could limit our ability to operate, maintain, upgrade and construct our drilling rigs and pressure pumping and other equipment and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. 15. Loss of Key Personnel and Competition for Experienced Personnel May Negatively Impact Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations.. We greatly depend on the efforts of our key employees to manage our operations.  The loss of members of management could have a material adverse effect on our business.  In addition, we utilize highly skilled personnel in operating and supporting our businesses.  In times of increasing demand for our services, it may be difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel, particularly after a prolonged industry downturn.  During periods of high demand for our services, wage rates for operations personnel are also likely to increase, resulting in higher operating costs.  During periods of lower demand for our services, we may experience reductions in force and voluntary departures of key personnel, which could adversely affect our business and make it more it difficult to meet customer demands when demand for our services improves.  In addition, even if it is generally a period of lower demand for our services, if there is a high demand for our services in certain areas, it may be difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel to perform services in such areas.  The loss of key employees, the failure to attract and retain qualified personnel and the increase in labor costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. The Loss of Large Customers Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations.. With respect to our consolidated operating revenues in 2017, we received approximately 43% from our ten largest customers, 29% from our five largest customers and 8% from our largest customer.  The loss of, or reduction in business from, one or more of our larger customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Growth Through Acquisitions or the Building of New Rigs and Pressure Pumping Equipment Is Not Assured.. We have increased our drilling rig fleet and pressure pumping fleet and expanded our business lines in the past through mergers, acquisitions and new construction.  For example, we completed the SSE merger and the MS Directional acquisition during 2017.  There can be no assurance that acquisition opportunities will be available in the future or that we will be able to execute timely or efficiently any plans for building new rigs and pressure pumping equipment.  We are also likely to continue to face intense competition from other companies for available acquisition opportunities.  In addition, because improved technology has enhanced the ability to recover oil and natural gas, improved commodity prices may cause contract drillers to continue to build new, high technology rigs and providers of pressure pumping services to continue to build new, high horsepower equipment.. There can be no assurance that we will:. •  have sufficient capital resources to complete additional acquisitions or build new rigs or pressure pumping equipment,. •  successfully integrate additional drilling rigs, pressure pumping equipment or other assets or businesses, including SSE and MS Directional,. •  effectively manage the growth and increased size of our organization, drilling fleet and pressure pumping equipment,. •  successfully deploy idle, stacked, upgraded or additional rigs and pressure pumping equipment,. •  maintain the crews necessary to operate additional drilling rigs and pressure pumping equipment, or. •  successfully improve our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects as a result of any completed acquisition or the building of new drilling rigs and pressure pumping equipment.. Our failure to achieve consolidation savings, to integrate acquired businesses and assets into our existing operations successfully or to minimize any unforeseen operational difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we may incur liabilities arising from events prior to any acquisitions or prior to our establishment of adequate compliance oversight. While we generally seek to obtain indemnities for liabilities for events occurring before such acquisitions, these are limited in amount and duration, may be held to be unenforceable or the seller may not be able to indemnify us.. We may incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions, build new drilling rigs or build new pressure pumping equipment, and we also may issue equity, convertible or debt securities in connection with any such acquisitions or building program.  Debt service requirements could represent a significant burden on our results of operations and financial condition, and the issuance of additional equity or convertible securities could be dilutive to existing stockholders.  Also, continued growth could strain our management, operations, employees and other resources.. 16. Environmental and Occupational Health and Safety Laws and Regulations, Including Violations Thereof, Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Operating Results.. Our business is subject to numerous federal, state, foreign, regional and local laws, rules and regulations governing the discharge of substances into the environment, protection of the environment and worker health and safety, including, without limitation, laws concerning the containment and disposal of hazardous substances, oil field waste and other waste materials, the use of underground storage tanks, and the use of underground injection wells.  The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations could be substantial.  A failure to comply with these requirements could expose us to:. •  substantial civil, criminal and/or administrative penalties,. •  modification, denial or revocation of permits or other authorizations,. •  imposition of limitations on our operations, and. •  performance of site investigatory, remedial or other corrective actions.. In addition, environmental laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate impose a variety of requirements on \"responsible parties\" related to the prevention of spills and liability for damages from such spills.  As an owner and operator of land-based drilling rigs and pressure pumping equipment, a manufacturer and servicer of oilfield service equipment and a provider of directional drilling services, we may be deemed to be a responsible party under these laws and regulations.. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently and such laws and regulations tend to become more stringent over time.  Stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase compliance costs for us and our customers and have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial position.  For example, on August 16, 2012, the EPA issued final rules that establish new air emission control requirements for natural gas and NGL production, processing and transportation activities, including New Source Performance Standards to address emissions of sulfur dioxide and volatile organic compounds and National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (\"NESHAPS\") to address hazardous air pollutants frequently associated with gas production and processing activities.  In June 2016, the EPA published a final rule that updates and expands the New Source Performance Standards by setting additional emissions limits for volatile organic compounds and regulating methane emissions for new and modified sources in the oil and gas industry. In addition, the EPA has announced that it intends to impose methane emission standards for existing sources and has issued information collection requests for oil and natural gas facilities.  The EPA also published a final rule in June 2016 concerning aggregation of sources that affects source determinations for air permitting in the oil and gas industry.  In November 2016, the Department of the Interior issued final rules relating to the venting, flaring and leaking of natural gas by oil and natural gas producers who operate on federal and Indian lands.  The rules limited routine flaring of natural gas, require the payment of royalties on avoidable gas losses and require plans or programs relating to gas capture and leak detection and repair.  The EPA issued a two-year stay of these requirements in December 2017 and has indicated that the requirements could be rescinded or significantly revised in the future.  These or other initiatives could increase costs to us and our customers or reduce demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Potential Legislation and Regulation Covering Hydraulic Fracturing or Other Aspects of the Oil and Gas Industry Could Increase Our Costs and Limit or Delay Our Operations.. Members of the U.S. Congress and the EPA are reviewing proposals for more stringent regulation of hydraulic fracturing, a technology employed by our pressure pumping business, which involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate oil and natural gas production.  For example, the EPA conducted a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater.  As part of this study, the EPA sent requests to a number of companies, including our company, for information on hydraulic fracturing practices.  We responded to the inquiry.  The EPA released its final report in December 2016.  It concluded that hydraulic fracturing activities can impact drinking water resources under some circumstances, including large volume spills and inadequate mechanical integrity of wells.  Further, we conduct drilling, pressure pumping and directional drilling activities in numerous states.  Some parties believe that there is a correlation between hydraulic fracturing and other oilfield related activities and the increased occurrence of seismic activity.  When caused by human activity, such seismic activity is called induced seismicity.  The extent of this correlation, if any, is the subject of studies of both state and federal agencies.  In addition, a number of lawsuits have been filed against other industry participants alleging damages and regulatory violations in connection with such activity.  These and other ongoing or proposed studies could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the Safe Drinking Water Act (\"SDWA\") and other aspects of the oil and gas industry.. 17. In addition, legislation has been proposed, but not enacted, in the U.S. Congress to amend the SDWA to require the disclosure of chemicals used by the oil and gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process, which could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process are impairing ground water or causing other damage.  These bills, if enacted, could establish an additional level of regulation at the federal or state level that could limit or delay operational activities or increase operating costs and could result in additional regulatory burdens that could make it more difficult to perform or limit hydraulic fracturing and increase our costs of compliance and doing business.. Regulatory efforts at the federal level and in many states have been initiated to require or make more stringent the permitting and compliance requirements for hydraulic fracturing operations.  The EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing using fluids that contain \"diesel fuel\" under the SDWA Underground Injection Control Program and has released a revised guidance regarding the process for obtaining a permit for hydraulic fracturing involving diesel fuel.  In May 2014, the EPA issued an Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, seeking comment on the development of regulations under the Toxic Substances Control Act to require companies to disclose information regarding the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing.  Further, in March 2015, the Bureau of Land Management (\"BLM\") issued a final rule to regulate hydraulic fracturing on Indian land. The rule requires companies to publicly disclose chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing operations to the BLM.  However, these rules were rescinded by rule in December 2017.  In June 2016, the EPA published final pretreatment standards for disposal of wastewater produced from shale gas operations to publicly owned treatment works.  These regulatory initiatives could each spur further action toward federal and/or state legislation and regulation of hydraulic fracturing activities.  Certain states where we operate have adopted or are considering disclosure legislation and/or regulations.  For example, Colorado, Louisiana, Montana, North Dakota, Texas and Wyoming have adopted a variety of well construction, set back and disclosure regulations limiting how fracturing can be performed and requiring various degrees of chemical disclosure.  Additional regulation could increase the costs of conducting our business and could materially reduce our business opportunities and revenues if our customers decrease their levels of activity in response to such regulation.. In addition, in light of concerns about induced seismicity, some state regulatory agencies have modified their regulations or issued orders to address induced seismicity.  For example, the Oklahoma Corporation Commission (\"OCC\") has implemented volume reduction plans, and at times required shut-ins, for oil and natural gas disposal wells injecting wastewater into the Arbuckle formation. The OCC also recently released well completion seismicity guidelines for operators in the SCOOP and STACK plays that call for hydraulic fracturing operations to be suspended following earthquakes of certain magnitudes in the vicinity.. Finally, some jurisdictions have taken steps to enact hydraulic fracturing bans or moratoria.  In June 2015, New York banned high volume fracturing activities combined with horizontal drilling.  Certain communities in Colorado have also enacted bans on hydraulic fracturing.  Voters in the city of Denton, Texas approved a moratorium on hydraulic fracturing in November 2014, though it was later lifted in 2015.  These actions have been the subject of legal challenges.. The adoption of any future federal, state, foreign, regional or local laws that impact permitting requirements for, result in reporting obligations on, or otherwise limit or ban, the hydraulic fracturing process could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing and could increase our costs of compliance and doing business and reduce demand for our services.  Regulation that significantly restricts or prohibits hydraulic fracturing could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. The Design, Manufacture, Sale and Servicing of Products, including Rig Components, May Subject Us to Liability for Personal Injury, Property Damage and Environmental Contamination Should Such Equipment Fail to Perform to Specifications.. We provide products, including rig components such as top drives, to customers involved in oil and gas exploration, development and production. Because of applications which use our products and services, a failure of such equipment, or a failure of our customer to maintain or operate the equipment properly, could cause damage to the equipment, damage to the property of customers and others, personal injury and environmental contamination, leading to claims against us.. Legislation and Regulation of Greenhouse Gases Could Adversely Affect Our Business. We are aware of the increasing focus of local, state, regional, national and international regulatory bodies on GHG emissions and climate change issues.  Legislation to regulate GHG emissions has periodically been introduced in the U.S. Congress, and there has been a wide-ranging policy debate, both in the United States and internationally, regarding the impact of these gases and possible means for their regulation.  Some of the proposals would require industries to meet stringent new standards that would require substantial reductions in carbon emissions.  Those reductions could be costly and difficult to implement.  The EPA has adopted rules requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources on an annual basis.  Further, following a finding by the EPA that certain GHGs represent an endangerment to human health, the EPA finalized a rule to address permitting of GHG emissions from stationary sources under the Clean Air Act's New Source Review Prevention of Significant Deterioration (\"PSD\") and Title V programs.  This final rule \"tailors\" the PSD and Title V programs to apply to certain stationary sources of GHG. 18. emissions in a multi-step process, with the largest sources first subject to permitting.  However, in June 2014, the U.S. Supreme Court in UARG v. EPA limited application of this rule to sources that would otherwise need permits based on emission of conventional pollutants.  In April 2015, the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals narrowed the rule in accordance with the Supreme Court's decision.  In October 2015, the EPA finalized rules that added new sources to the scope of the GHG monitoring and reporting requirements.  These new sources include gathering and boosting facilities as well as completions and workovers from hydraulically fractured oil wells.  The revisions also include the addition of well identification reporting requirements for certain facilities.  Also, in November 2016, the EPA published a final rule adding monitoring methods for detecting leaks from oil and gas equipment and emission factors for leaking equipment to be used to calculate and report GHG emissions resulting from equipment leaks.  In addition, the United States was actively involved in the United Nations Conference on Climate Change in Paris, which led to the creation of the Paris Agreement.  In April 2016, the United States signed the Paris Agreement, which requires countries to review and \"represent a progression\" in their nationally determined contributions, which set emissions reduction goals, every five years.  In June 2017, President Trump announced that the United States will withdraw from the Paris Agreement unless it is renegotiated.  The State Department informed the United Nations of the United States' withdrawal in August 2017.  However, several states and geographic regions in the United States have adopted legislation and regulations to reduce emissions of GHGs.  Additional legislation or regulation by these states and regions, the EPA, and/or any international agreements to which the United States may become a party, that control or limit GHG emissions or otherwise seek to address climate change could adversely affect our operations.  The cost of complying with any new law, regulation or treaty will depend on the details of the particular program.  We will continue to monitor and assess any new policies, legislation or regulations in the areas where we operate to determine the impact of GHG emissions and climate change on our operations and take appropriate actions, where necessary.  Any direct and indirect costs of meeting these requirements may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.  Because our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, existing or future laws or regulations related to GHGs and climate change, including incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources, could have a negative impact on our business if such laws or regulations reduce demand for oil and natural gas.. Legal Proceedings and Governmental Investigations Could Have a Negative Impact on Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations.. The nature of our business makes us susceptible to legal proceedings and governmental investigations from time to time.  For example, the January 22, 2018 accident at a drilling site in Pittsburg County, Oklahoma is currently under governmental investigation by the EPA, OSHA and the U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board.  In addition, during periods of depressed market conditions, we may be subject to an increased risk of our customers, vendors, current and former employees and others initiating legal proceedings against us. Lawsuits or claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Any legal proceedings or claims, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively affect our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future.. Technology Disputes Could Negatively Impact Our Operations or Increase Our Costs.. Our services and products use proprietary technology and equipment, which can involve potential infringement of a third party's rights, including patent rights.  The majority of the intellectual property rights relating to our drilling rigs, pressure pumping equipment and directional drilling services are owned by us or certain of our supplying vendors.  However, in the event that we or one of our supplying vendors becomes involved in a dispute over infringement rights relating to equipment owned or used by us, services performed by us or products provided by us, we may lose access to important equipment or our ability to provide services or products, or we could be required to cease use of some equipment or forced to modify our equipment, services or products.  We could also be required to pay license fees or royalties for the use of equipment or provision of services or products.  Technology disputes involving us or our supplying vendors could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Political, Economic and Social Instability Risk and Laws Associated with Conducting International Operations Could Adversely Affect Our Opportunities and Future Business.. We currently conduct operations in Canada, and we have incurred selling, general and administrative expenses related to the evaluation of and preparation for other international opportunities. Also, we sell products, including rig components, for use in numerous oil and gas producing regions outside of North America. International operations are subject to certain political, economic and other uncertainties generally not encountered in U.S. operations, including increased risks of social and political unrest, strikes, terrorism, war, kidnapping of employees, nationalization, forced negotiation or modification of contracts, difficulty resolving disputes and enforcing contractual rights, expropriation of equipment as well as expropriation of oil and gas exploration and drilling rights, changes in taxation policies, foreign exchange restrictions and restrictions on repatriation of income and capital, currency rate fluctuations, increased governmental ownership and regulation of the economy and industry in the markets in which we may operate, economic and financial instability of national oil companies, and restrictive governmental regulation, bureaucratic delays and general hazards associated with foreign sovereignty over certain areas in which operations are conducted.. 19. There can be no assurance that there will not be changes in local laws, regulations and administrative requirements, or the interpretation thereof, which could have a material adverse effect on the cost of entry into international markets, the profitability of international operations or the ability to continue those operations in certain areas.  Because of the impact of local laws, any future international operations in certain areas may be conducted through entities in which local citizens own interests and through entities (including joint ventures) in which we hold only a minority interest or pursuant to arrangements under which we conduct operations under contract to local entities.  While we believe that neither operating through such entities nor pursuant to such arrangements would have a material adverse effect on our operations or revenues, there can be no assurance that we will in all cases be able to structure or restructure our operations to conform to local law (or the administration thereof) on terms we find acceptable.. There can be no assurance that we will:. •  identify attractive opportunities in international markets,. •  have sufficient capital resources to pursue and consummate international opportunities,. •  successfully integrate international drilling rigs, pressure pumping equipment or other assets or businesses,. •  effectively manage the start-up, development and growth of an international organization and assets,. •  hire, attract and retain the personnel necessary to successfully conduct international operations, or. •  receive awards for work and successfully improve our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects as a result of the entry into one or more international markets.. In addition, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\") and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business.  Some parts of the world where contract drilling and pressure pumping activities are conducted or where our consumers for the Warrior products are located have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practice and could impact business.  Any failure to comply with the FCPA or other anti-bribery legislation could subject to us to civil, criminal and/or administrative penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation.  We could also face fines, sanctions and other penalties from authorities in the relevant foreign jurisdictions, including prohibition of our participating in or curtailment of business operations in those jurisdictions and the seizure of drilling rigs, pressure pumping equipment or other assets.. We may incur substantial indebtedness to finance an international transaction or operations, and we also may issue equity, convertible or debt securities in connection with any such transactions or operations.  Debt service requirements could represent a significant burden on our results of operations and financial condition, and the issuance of additional equity or convertible securities could be dilutive to existing stockholders.  Also, international expansion could strain our management, operations, employees and other resources.. The occurrence of one or more events arising from the types of risks described above could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our Business Is Subject to Cybersecurity Risks and Threats.. Our operations are increasingly dependent on information technologies and services.  Threats to information technology systems associated with cybersecurity risks and cyber incidents or attacks continue to grow, and include, among other things, storms and natural disasters, terrorist attacks, utility outages, theft, viruses, malware, design defects, human error, or complications encountered as existing systems are maintained, repaired, replaced, or upgraded.  Risks associated with these threats include, among other things:. •  theft or misappropriation of funds;. •  loss, corruption, or misappropriation of intellectual property, or other proprietary or confidential information (including customer, supplier, or employee data);. •  disruption or impairment of our and our customers' business operations and safety procedures;. •  loss or damage to our worksite data delivery systems; and. •  increased costs to prevent, respond to or mitigate cybersecurity events.. 20. Although we utilize various procedures and controls to mitigate our exposure to such risk, cybersecurity attacks and other cyber events are evolving and unpredictable.  Moreover, we have no control over the information technology systems of our customers, suppliers, and others with which our systems may connect and communicate.  As a result, the occurrence of a cyber incident could go unnoticed for a period time.  Any such incident could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We Are Dependent Upon Our Subsidiaries to Meet our Obligations Under Our Long-Term Debt.. We have borrowings outstanding under our senior notes and, from time to time, our revolving credit facility.  These obligations are guaranteed by each of our existing U.S. subsidiaries other than immaterial subsidiaries.  Our ability to meet our interest and principal payment obligations depends in large part on dividends paid to us by our subsidiaries.  If our subsidiaries do not generate sufficient cash flows to pay us dividends, we may be unable to meet our interest and principal payment obligations.. Variable Rate Indebtedness Subjects Us to Interest Rate Risk, Which Could Cause Our Debt Service Obligations to Increase Significantly.. We have in place a committed senior unsecured credit facility that includes a revolving credit facility.  Interest is paid on the outstanding principal amount of borrowings under the credit facility at a floating rate based on, at our election, LIBOR or a base rate.  The applicable margin on LIBOR rate loans varies from 3.25% to 3.75% and the applicable margin on base rate loans varies from 2.25% to 2.75%, in each case determined based on our excess availability under the credit facility.  As of December 31, 2017, the applicable margin on LIBOR rate loans was 3.50% and the applicable margin on base rate loans was 2.50%.  As of December 31, 2017, we had $268 million outstanding under our revolving credit facility at a weighted average interest rate of 5.71%.. We have in place a reimbursement agreement pursuant to which we are required to reimburse the issuing bank on demand for any amounts that it has disbursed under any of our letters of credit issued thereunder.  We are obligated to pay the issuing bank interest on all amounts not paid by us on the date of demand or when otherwise due at the LIBOR rate plus 2.25% per annum.  As of December 31, 2017, no amounts had been disbursed under any letters of credit.. Interest rates could rise for various reasons in the future and increase our total interest expense, depending upon the amounts borrowed.. A Downgrade in Our Credit Rating Could Negatively Impact Our Cost of and Ability to Access Capital.. Our ability to access capital markets or to otherwise obtain sufficient financing is enhanced by our senior unsecured debt ratings as provided by major U.S. credit rating agencies.  Factors that may impact our credit ratings include debt levels, liquidity, asset quality, cost structure, commodity pricing levels and other considerations.  A ratings downgrade could adversely impact our ability in the future to access debt markets, increase the cost of future debt, and potentially require us to post letters of credit for certain obligations.. We May Not Be Able to Generate Sufficient Cash to Service All of Our Debt, Including Our Senior Notes and Debt Under Our Credit Agreement, and We May Be Forced to Take Other Actions to Satisfy Our Obligations Under Our Debt, which May Not Be Successful.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control.  We cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness.. In addition, if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our debt.  We cannot assure you that we would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would be successful and would permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our existing or future debt agreements.  In the absence of such cash flows and capital resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations.  However, our Credit Agreement and senior notes contain restrictions on our ability to dispose of assets.  We may not be able to consummate those dispositions, and any proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due.. 21. Anti-takeover Measures in Our Charter Documents and Under State Law Could Discourage an Acquisition and Thereby Affect the Related Purchase Price.. We are a Delaware corporation subject to the Delaware General Corporation Law, including Section 203, an anti-takeover law.  Our restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue up to one million shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights (including voting rights), conversion ratios, preferences and privileges of that stock without further vote or action by the holders of the common stock.  It also prohibits stockholders from acting by written consent without the holding of a meeting.  In addition, our bylaws impose certain advance notification requirements as to business that can be brought by a stockholder before annual stockholder meetings and as to persons nominated as directors by a stockholder.  As a result of these measures and others, potential acquirers might find it more difficult or be discouraged from attempting to effect an acquisition transaction with us.  This may deprive holders of our securities of certain opportunities to sell or otherwise dispose of the securities at above-market prices pursuant to any such transactions.. SSE is Subject to Continuing Contingent Tax Liabilities of Chesapeake Energy Corporation (\"CHK\") Following its Spin-Off from CHK.. Under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"), and the related rules and regulations, each corporation that was a member of CHK's consolidated tax reporting group during any taxable period or portion of any taxable period ending on or before June 30, 2014, the effective time of SSE's spin-off, is jointly and severally liable for the federal income tax liability of the entire consolidated tax reporting group for that taxable period.  SSE has entered into a tax sharing agreement with CHK that allocates the responsibility for prior year taxes of CHK's consolidated tax reporting group between SSE and CHK and its subsidiaries.  However, if CHK were unable to pay, SSE nevertheless could be required to pay the entire amount of such taxes.. SSE's Tax Sharing Agreement Limits its Ability to Take Certain Actions and May Require SSE to Indemnify CHK for Significant Tax Liabilities Which Cannot be Precisely Quantified at This Time.. Under the terms of SSE's tax sharing agreement with CHK, SSE generally is responsible for all taxes attributable to its business, whether accruing before, on or after the date of the spin-off, and CHK generally is responsible for any taxes arising from the spin-off or certain related transactions that are imposed on SSE, CHK or its other subsidiaries.  Although CHK generally will be responsible for any taxes arising from the spin-off, SSE would be responsible for any such taxes to the extent such taxes result from certain actions or failures to act by SSE that occur after June 30, 2014, the effective date of the tax sharing agreement.  SSE's liabilities under the tax sharing agreement could have a material adverse effect on us.  At this time, we cannot precisely quantify the amount of liabilities SSE may have under the tax sharing agreement and there can be no assurances as to their final amounts.. In addition, in the tax sharing agreement SSE covenanted not to take any action, or fail to take any action, after the effective date of the tax sharing agreement, which action or failure to act is inconsistent with the spin-off qualifying under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code.  As a result, SSE might determine to continue to operate certain of its business operations for the foreseeable future even if a sale or discontinuance of such business might otherwise have been advantageous.. In Connection with SSE's Separation from CHK, CHK Indemnified SSE for Certain Liabilities.  However, There Can Be No Assurance that the Indemnities Will be Sufficient to Insure SSE Against the Full Amount of Such Liabilities, or That CHK's Ability to Satisfy its Indemnification Obligation Will Not Be Impaired in the Future.. Pursuant to the tax sharing agreement, CHK agreed to indemnify SSE for certain liabilities.  However, third parties could seek to hold SSE responsible for any of the liabilities that CHK has agreed to retain, and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from CHK will be sufficient to protect SSE against the full amount of such liabilities, or that CHK will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations.  Moreover, even if SSE ultimately succeeds in recovering from CHK any amounts for which SSE is held liable, SSE may be temporarily required to bear these losses.  In addition, in certain circumstances, SSE will be prohibited from making an indemnity claim until it first seeks an insurance recovery.  If CHK is unable to satisfy its indemnification obligations, the underlying liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 22. We May Not Be Able to Utilize a Portion of SSE's or Our Net Operating Loss Carryforwards (\"NOLs\") to Offset Future Taxable Income for U.S. Federal Tax Purposes, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Net Income and Cash Flows.. As of December 31, 2017, SSE had federal income tax NOLs of approximately $238.0 million, which will expire between 2034 and 2037, and, as of December 31, 2017, we had federal income tax NOLs of approximately $867.1 million, which will expire between 2035 and 2037.  Utilization of these NOLs depends on many factors, including our future taxable income, which cannot be predicted with any accuracy.  In addition, Section 382 of the Code generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of an NOL that may be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone an \"ownership change\" (as determined under Section 382).  Determining the limitations under Section 382 is technical and highly complex.  An ownership change generally occurs if one or more shareholders (or groups of shareholders) who are each deemed to own at least 5% of the corporation's stock increase their ownership by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest ownership percentage within a rolling three-year period.  In the event that an ownership change has occurred - or were to occur - with respect to a corporation following its recognition of an NOL, utilization of such NOL would be subject to an annual limitation under Section 382, generally determined by multiplying the value of the corporation's stock at the time of the ownership change by the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate as defined in Section 382.  However, this annual limitation would be increased under certain circumstances by recognized built-in gains of the corporation existing at the time of the ownership change.  Any unused annual limitation with respect to an NOL generally may be carried over to later years, subject to the expiration of the NOL 20 years after it arose.. SSE underwent an ownership change in 2016 as a result of its emergence from Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings, and experienced another ownership change in 2017 as a result of its acquisition pursuant to the SSE merger, and the corresponding annual limitation associated with either of those changes in ownership could prevent us from fully utilizing - prior to their expiration - SSE's NOLs as of the effective time of the SSE merger.  While our issuance of stock pursuant to the SSE merger was, standing alone, insufficient to result in an ownership change with respect to us, we cannot assure you that we will not undergo an ownership change as a result of the merger taking into account other changes in ownership of our stock occurring within the relevant three-year period described above.  If we were to undergo an ownership change, we may be prevented from fully utilizing our NOLs as of the time of the SSE merger prior to their expiration.  Future changes in stock ownership or future regulatory changes could also limit our ability to utilize SSE's or our NOLs.  To the extent we are not able to offset future taxable income with SSE's or our NOLs, our net income and cash flows may be adversely affected."
