[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. The risks described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition and/or the trading price of our common stock. Although it is not possible to predict or identify all such risks and uncertainties, they may include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below. Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider not to be material to our operations. You should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all risks and uncertainties. The order in which these factors appear should not be construed to indicate their relative importance or priority.. The dental and animal health supply markets are highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete successfully.. Our competitors include national, regional and local full-service distributors, mail-order distributors and, increasingly, Internet-based businesses. Some of our competitors have greater resources than we do, or operate through different sales and distribution models that could allow them to compete more successfully. For example, many of our suppliers are manufacturers, some of whom compete with us by selling directly to customers. Furthermore, Internet-based businesses may be able to offer the same product at a lower cost.. Most of our products are available from multiple sources, and our customers tend to have relationships with several different distributors who can fulfill their orders. Our competitors could obtain exclusive rights to market particular products, which we would then be unable to market. Manufacturers also could increase their efforts to sell directly to end-users and thereby eliminate or reduce the role of distributors. These suppliers could sell their products at lower prices and maintain a higher gross margin on the product sales than we can. Increased competition from any supplier of dental or animal health products could significantly reduce our market share and adversely impact our financial results.. Industry consolidation among suppliers, price competition, the unavailability of products, or the emergence of new competitors also could increase competition. There has also been increasing consolidation among manufacturers, which could have a material adverse effect on our margins and product availability. This consolidation could cause the industry to become more competitive as greater economies of scale are achieved by competitors, or as competitors with new lower cost business models are able to operate with lower prices and gross profit on products. These competitive pressures could adversely affect our sales and profitability. Our failure to compete effectively may limit and/or reduce our revenue, profitability and cash flow.. General economic conditions could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. Uncertain weak economic conditions in the U.S. or global economy, or an uncertain economic outlook, could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. These uncertainties, including, among other things:. • changes to laws and policies governing foreign trade;. • greater restrictions on imports and exports;. 15. Table of Contents. • changes in laws and policies governing health care;. • tariffs and sanctions;. • the United Kingdom's vote to leave the European Union;. • election results;. • sovereign debt levels;. • the inability of political institutions to effectively resolve actual or perceived economic, currency or budgetary crises or issues;. • consumer confidence;. • unemployment levels (and a corresponding increase in uninsured and underinsured population);. • changes in regulatory requirements and tax regulations, including, without limitation, the Tax Cuts and Reform Act;. • increases in interest rates;. • availability of capital;. • increases in fuel and energy costs;. • the effect of inflation on our ability to procure products and our ability to increase prices over time;. • changes in tax rates and the availability of certain tax deductions;. • increases in healthcare costs;. • the threat or outbreak of war, terrorism or public unrest; and. • changes in laws and policies in countries where we do business.. Changes in government, government debt and/or budget crises may lead to reductions in government spending in certain countries and/or higher income or corporate taxes, which could depress spending overall. In addition, recessionary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending may cause customers to reduce, modify, delay, or cancel purchasing our products and services, and a prolonged period of economic instability could reduce their ability to make payments. Furthermore, such conditions could cause our suppliers to reduce their production, decrease their number of product offerings, or change their terms of sale to us. Increasing commodity prices may also increase our cost of operations, either directly through increased energy costs or indirectly through what we are charged by our suppliers. Recessionary economic conditions could also cause changes in our product mix as our customers prioritize established, low-margin products rather than innovative, high-margin products, which could reduce our profit margin.. We are dependent on our relationships with our sales representatives, service technicians and our customers.. The inability to attract or retain qualified employees, particularly sales representatives and service technicians who relate directly with our customers, or our inability to build or maintain relationships with customers in the dental and animal health markets, may have an adverse effect on our business. Due to the specialized nature of many of our products and services, generally only highly qualified and trained personnel have the necessary skills to market such products and provide such services. These individuals develop relationships with our customers that could be damaged if these employees are not retained. We face intense competition for the hiring of these professionals, and many professionals in the field that may otherwise be attractive candidates for us to hire may be bound by non-competition agreements with our competitors. Any failure on our part to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified professionals would damage our business.. We may be unable to successfully integrate the operations of Animal Health International, Inc. or realize targeted cost savings and other benefits of the acquisition.. In June 2015, we acquired Animal Health International, Inc. Achieving the targeted benefits of the acquisition will depend in part upon whether we can integrate Animal Health International, Inc.'s businesses in an efficient and effective manner. We may not be able to accomplish this integration process smoothly or successfully. The necessity of coordinating geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities and addressing possible differences in business backgrounds, corporate cultures and management philosophies may increase the difficulties of integration. We and Animal Health International, Inc. operate numerous systems, including those involving management information, purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, billing, and regulatory compliance. Moreover, the integration of our respective operations will require the dedication of significant management resources, which is likely to distract management's attention from day-to-day operations. Employee uncertainty and lack of focus during the integration process may also disrupt our business and result in undesired employee attrition. An inability of management to successfully integrate the operations of the two companies could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 16. Table of Contents. In addition, our actual cost-savings could differ materially from our initial estimates of synergies to be realized from the Animal Health International, Inc. acquisition. Actual cost-savings, the costs required to realize the cost-savings and the source of the cost-savings could differ materially from our estimates, and we cannot assure you that we will achieve cost-savings, or that these cost-savings programs will not have other adverse effects on our business.. Finally, we may not be able to achieve the targeted operating or long-term strategic benefits of the Animal Health International, Inc. acquisition. An inability to realize the full extent of, or any of, the anticipated benefits of the Animal Health International, Inc. acquisition, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Disruption to our distribution capabilities, including service issues with our third-party shippers, could materially adversely affect our results.. Weather, natural disaster, fire, terrorism, pandemic, strikes, geopolitical events or other reasons could impair our ability to distribute our products and conduct our business. If we are unable to manage effectively such events if they occur, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Similarly, increases in service costs or service issues with our third-party shippers, including strikes or other service interruptions, could cause our operating expenses to rise and materially adversely affect our ability to deliver products on a timely basis. Our ability to provide same-day shipping and next-day delivery is an integral component of our business strategy and any significant increase in shipping rates or service interruptions could adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our business development efforts may suffer if we fail to provide our sales force and customers with the latest customer relationship and order management tools.. Due to generational and other trends in the dental and animal health industries, our customer base is increasingly comfortable with and reliant upon the latest technologies to manage their businesses.  As part of our commitment to providing superior customer service, we offer our customers computerized order entry, customer support for digital and proprietary products, including the Patterson Technology Center, customer-loyalty program reports and services, and access to articles and manufacturers' product information. We also provide real-time customer and sales information to our sales force, managers and vendors via the Internet to enable them to compete in the digital marketplace.  Our business development efforts may suffer if we fail to keep pace with rapidly changing technologies and customer expectations.. We are dependent on our suppliers because we generally do not manufacture the products we sell.. Interruptions in supply could adversely affect our operating results. If a supplier is unable to deliver product in a timely and efficient manner, whether due to financial difficulties, natural disasters or other reasons, we could experience lost sales. We generally do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers that commit them to producing products for us and there is considerable concentration within our animal health and dental businesses with a few key suppliers. In addition, because we generally do not control the actual production of the products we sell, we may be subject to delays caused by interruption in production based on conditions outside of our control, including the failure to comply with applicable government requirements. The failure of manufacturers of products regulated by the FDA or other governmental agencies to meet these requirements, could result in product recall, cessation of sales or other market disruptions. An extended interruption in the supply of our products would have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. In addition, a portion of our products is sourced, directly or indirectly, from outside the U.S. Political or financial instability, increased tariffs, restrictions on trade, currency exchange rates, labor unrest, outbreak of pandemics or other events could slow distribution activities, affect foreign trade beyond our control and adversely affect our results of operations.. Material changes in our purchasing relationship with suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our ability to sustain our gross profits depends, in part, on the structure of our relationship with our suppliers. Such relationships are subject to change from time to time, such as changing from a \"buy/sell\" to an agency relationship, or from an agency to a \"buy/sell\" relationship, either of which could adversely affect our revenues and operating income. Suppliers may also choose to change the method in which products are taken to market, including the possibility of creating or expanding a direct sales force or otherwise reducing their reliance on third-party distribution channels. For. 17. Table of Contents. example, a supplier may change our relationship from a complete distribution provider, including logistics and sales support, to only a logistics provider, or to only a sales support provider, or it may decide to entirely terminate its business relationship with us. A reduction in our role as a value-added service provider would result in reduced margins on product sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Sales of private label products entail additional risks, including the risk that such sales could adversely affect our sales of other products.. We offer certain private label products that are available exclusively from us. The sale of such products subjects us to the risks generally encountered by entities that source, market and sell private label products, including but not limited to potential product liability risks, mandatory or voluntary product recalls, potential supply chain and distribution chain disruptions, and potential intellectual property infringement risks. Any failure to adequately address some or all of these risks could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, an increase in the sales of our private label products may negatively affect our sales of products owned by our suppliers which, consequently, could adversely impact certain of our supplier relationships. Our ability to locate qualified, economically stable suppliers who satisfy our requirements, and to acquire sufficient products in a timely and effective manner, is critical to ensuring, among other things, that customer confidence is not diminished. As a distribution company, any failure to develop sourcing relationships with a broad and deep supplier base could adversely affect our financial performance and erode customer loyalty.. Patterson's continued success is substantially dependent on positive perceptions of Patterson's reputation.. One of the reasons why customers choose to do business with Patterson and why employees choose Patterson as a place of employment is the reputation that Patterson has built over many years. To be successful in the future, Patterson must continue to preserve, grow and leverage the value of Patterson's brand. Reputational value is based in large part on perceptions of subjective qualities. Even an isolated incident, or the aggregate effect of individually insignificant incidents, can erode trust and confidence, particularly if they result in adverse publicity, governmental investigations or litigation, and as a result, could tarnish Patterson's brand and lead to adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks inherent in acquiring other businesses could offset the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions and we may face difficulty in efficiently and effectively integrating acquired businesses.. As a part of our business strategy, we have acquired businesses in the ordinary course and expect to continue acquiring businesses in the future. These acquisitions can involve a number of risks and challenges, any of which could cause significant operating inefficiencies and adversely affect our growth and profitability, and may not result in the benefits and revenue growth we expect. Such risks and challenges include underperformance relative to our expectations and the price paid for the acquisition; unanticipated demands on our management and operational resources; difficulty in integrating personnel, operations and systems; retention of customers of the combined businesses; assumption of contingent liabilities; acquisition-related earnings charges; and acquisition-related cybersecurity risks.. As we operate through two strategic business units, we consolidate the distribution, information technology, human resources, financial and other administrative functions of those business units jointly to meet their needs while addressing distinctions in the individual markets of those segments. We may not be able to do so effectively and efficiently.. Our ability to continue to make acquisitions will depend upon our success in identifying suitable targets, which requires substantial judgment in assessing their values, strengths, weaknesses, liabilities and potential profitability, as well as the availability of suitable candidates at acceptable prices, and whether restrictions are imposed by anti-trust or other regulations.. Our acquired technology or developed technology may not be successful in maintaining existing customers or gaining new customers, or the technology may fail to produce its intended results.. The process of acquiring or developing new technology products and solutions is inherently complex and uncertain. It requires accurate anticipation of customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends. We must make long-term investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether these investments will eventually result in products or services that achieve customer acceptance and generate the revenue required to provide desired returns. If we fail to accurately anticipate and meet our customers' needs through the development of new products. 18. Table of Contents. and technologies and service offerings or if we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, or if our new products are not widely accepted or if our current or future products fail to meet applicable regulatory requirements, we could lose customers to our competitors and that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if technology investments do not achieve the intended results, we may write-off the investments, and we face the risk of claims from system users that the systems failed to produce the intended result or negatively affected the operation of our customers' businesses. Any such claims, even those without merit, could be expensive and time-consuming to defend, cause us to lose customers and the associated revenue, divert management's attention and resources, or require us to pay damages.. We are subject to a variety of litigation that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to a variety of litigation incidental to our business, including product liability claims, intellectual property claims, employment claims, commercial disputes, governmental inquiries and investigations, and other matters arising out of the ordinary course of our business, including antitrust and securities litigation. From time to time we are named as a defendant in cases as a result of our distribution of products. Additionally, purchasers of private-label products may seek recourse directly from us, rather than the ultimate product manufacturer, for product-related claims. Another potential risk we face in the distribution of our products is liability resulting from counterfeit or tainted products infiltrating the supply chain. In addition, some of the products that we transport and sell are considered hazardous materials. The improper handling of such materials or accidents involving the transportation of such materials could subject us to liability. In addition, our reputation could be adversely affected by negative publicity surrounding such events regardless of whether or not claims against us are successful. Defending against such claims may divert our management's attention, may be expensive, and may require that we pay damage awards or settlements or become subject to equitable remedies that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance or not covered by insurance or indemnification agreements, or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against us, could have a material adverse effect on our business and our reputation. Furthermore, the outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain.. Changes in consumer preferences could adversely affect our business.. The demand for production animal health products is heavily dependent upon consumer demand for beef, dairy, poultry and swine. The food industry in general is subject to changing consumer trends, demands and preferences. Trends within the food industry change often and our failure to anticipate, identify or react to changes in these trends could lead to, among other things, reduced demand and price reductions for our animal health products, and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, even if we do anticipate and identify these trends, we may be unable to react effectively. For example, changes in consumer diets may negatively affect consumer demand for beef, dairy, poultry and/or swine, and therefore reduce the demand for our production animal health products which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. In addition, there has been consumer concern and consumer activism with respect to the use of antibiotics and growth promotants in animal feed. A sustained campaign of negative press resulting from media or consumer advocacy groups, industry litigation, loss of export markets or other factors could adversely affect the public's perception of the industry as a whole, or lead to reluctance by consumers to buy protein or other products. Concern over the impact of growth promotants on animal welfare could result in the removal from the market of products in that category, adversely impacting our sales. In addition, heightened consumer concern over the use of antibiotics and growth promotants in animal feed could result in increased government regulation in response to that concern. Any such event may affect the growth of the production animal market and lead to a decrease in the sales of the products we distribute, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. From time to time, we experience changes in customer and product mix that affect gross margin. Changes in customer and product mix result primarily from business acquisitions, changes in customer demand, customer acquisitions, selling and marketing activities and competition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain historical gross margins in the future.. Our business may be directly and indirectly affected by the cyclicality of the livestock market, including the effect of poor or unusual weather conditions, that could reduce demand for the production animal products we distribute.. 19. Table of Contents. Poor or unusual weather conditions can significantly affect the purchasing decisions of our production animal customers. The timing and quantity of rainfall are two of the most important factors in agricultural production. Drought can affect the availability and price of feed for livestock. Faced with a reduction in readily available feed or an increase in costs for such feed, our customers may decide to reduce herd size, which would ultimately decrease the demand for the products we distribute, including micro feed ingredients, animal health products, dairy sanitation solutions, as well as the development and implementation of systems for feed, health, information and production animal management.. The outbreak of an infectious disease within either the production animal or companion animal population could have a significant adverse effect on our business and our results of operations.. An outbreak of disease affecting animals, such as foot-and-mouth disease, porcine epidemic diarrhea virus, Newcastle disease, avian flu or bovine spongiform encephalopathy, commonly referred to as \"mad cow disease,\" could result in the widespread destruction of affected animals and consequently result in a reduction in demand for animal health products. In addition, outbreaks of these or other diseases or concerns of such diseases could create adverse publicity that may have a material adverse effect on consumer demand for meat, dairy and poultry products, and, as a result, on our customers' demand for the products we distribute. It could also harm export markets for such products and lead to increased government regulation. The outbreak of a disease among the companion animal population which could cause a reduction in the demand for companion animals could also adversely affect our business.. Pressure from animal rights groups may subject us to additional costs to conform our practices to comply with developing standards or subject us to marketing costs to defend challenges to our current practices.. The utilization of animals in research and development and product commercialization is subject to increasing focus by animal rights activists. The activities of animal rights groups and other organizations that have protested animal based research and development programs or boycotted the products resulting from such programs could cause an interruption in our supply chain. The occurrence of material operational problems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Pricing pressure from branded pharmaceutical manufacturers or adverse changes in supplier rebates could negatively affect our business.. We face pricing pressure from branded pharmaceutical manufacturers.  In addition, the terms on which we purchase or sell products from many suppliers of animal health products may entitle us to receive a rebate based on the attainment of certain growth goals. Suppliers may reduce or eliminate rebates offered under their programs, or increase the growth goals or other conditions we must meet to earn rebates to levels that we cannot achieve. Increased competition either from generic or equivalent branded products could result in us failing to earn rebates that are conditioned upon achievement of growth goals. Additionally, factors outside of our control, such as customer preferences, consolidation of suppliers or supply issues, can have a material impact on our ability to achieve the growth goals established by our suppliers, which may reduce the amount of rebates we receive. The occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. We experience fluctuations in quarterly financial results. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline.. Our business is subject to quarterly fluctuations. Quarterly results may be materially adversely affected by a variety of factors, including:. • timing and amount of sales and marketing expenditures;. • timing of pricing changes offered by our suppliers;. • timing of the introduction of new products and services by our suppliers;. • changes in or availability of supplier contracts or rebate programs;. • supplier rebates based upon attaining certain growth goals;. • changes in the way suppliers introduce or deliver products to market;. • costs of developing new applications and services;. • our ability to correctly identify customer needs and preferences and predict future needs and preferences;. • uncertainties regarding potential significant breaches of data security or disruptions of our information technology systems;. • unexpected regulatory actions, or government regulation generally;. 20. Table of Contents. • loss of sales representatives;. • costs related to acquisitions and/or integrations of technologies or businesses;. • costs associated with our self-insured insurance programs;. • general market and economic conditions, as well as those specific to the supply and distribution industry and related industries;. • our success in establishing or maintaining business relationships;. • unexpected difficulties of manufacturers in developing and manufacturing products;. • product demand and availability, or product recalls by manufacturers;. • exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury;. • increases in shipping costs or service issues with our third-party shippers;. • fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies;. • changes in interest rates;. • restructuring costs;. • the adoption or repeal of legislation;. • changes in accounting principles; and. • litigation or regulatory judgments, expenses or settlements.. Any change in one or more of these or other factors could cause our annual or quarterly financial results to fluctuate. If our financial results do not meet market expectations, our stock price may decline.. The formation of group purchasing organizations (\"GPO\") or provider networks may place us at a competitive disadvantage.. The formation of GPOs and provider networks may shift purchasing decisions to entities or persons with whom we do not have a historical relationship. This may threaten our ability to compete effectively, which could in turn negatively impact our financial results. Although we are seeking to obtain access to lower prices demanded by GPO contracts or other contracts, and to develop relationships with provider networks and new GPOs, we cannot assure that such terms will be obtained or contracts will be executed.. We may experience competition from third-party online commerce sites.. Traditional distribution relationships are being challenged by online commerce solutions.  Such competition will require us to cost-effectively adapt to changing technology, to continue to provide enhanced service offerings and to continue to differentiate our business (including with additional value-added services) to address demands of consumers and customers on a timely basis.  The emergence of such competition and our inability to anticipate and effectively respond to changes on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Increases in over-the-counter sales of companion animal products, or sales of companion animal products from non-veterinarian sources, could adversely affect our business.. Animal health products are becoming increasingly available to consumers at competitive prices from sources other than veterinarians, including human health product pharmacies, Internet pharmacies and big-box retailers. Any increase competition from such channels could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our international operations are subject to inherent risks that could adversely affect our operating results.. There are a number of risks inherent in foreign operations, including complex regulatory requirements, staffing and management complexities, import and export costs, other economic factors and political considerations, all of which are subject to unanticipated changes. Additionally, foreign operations expose us to foreign currency fluctuations. Because our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies will have an impact on our income. Currency exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, we generally do not hedge translation exposure with respect to foreign operations.. 21. Table of Contents. The U.S. Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (the \"Health Care Reform Law\") could materially adversely affect our business.. Provisions of the Health Care Reform Law could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, further federal and state proposals for health care reform in the U.S. are likely, and foreign government authorities may also adopt reforms of their health systems. We cannot predict what further reform proposals, if any, will be adopted, when they may be adopted, or what impact they may have on us. The continued uncertain status of the Health Care Reform Law affects our ability to plan.. Reporting and disclosure obligations under the Physician Payment Sunshine Act provisions of the Health Care Reform Law increase the cost of our regulatory compliance.. The Physician Payment Sunshine Act imposes reporting and disclosure requirements for drug and device manufacturers with regard to payments or other transfers of value made to certain practitioners (including physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals), and for such manufacturers and for group purchasing organizations, with regard to certain ownership interests held by physicians in the reporting entity. Under the Physician Payment Sunshine Act we are required to collect and report detailed information regarding certain financial relationships we have with physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals. We may also be required to report under certain state transparency laws that address circumstances not covered by the Physician Payment Sunshine Act, and some of these state laws, as well as the federal law, can be ambiguous. We are also subject to foreign regulations requiring transparency of certain interactions between suppliers and their customers. Our compliance with these rules imposes additional costs on us.. Failure to comply with existing and future U.S. and foreign laws and regulatory requirements, including those governing the distribution of pharmaceuticals and controlled substances, could subject us to claims or otherwise harm our business.. Our business is subject to requirements under various local, state, federal and international laws and regulations applicable to the distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical devices, and human cells, tissue and cellular and tissue-based products, also known as HCT/P products, and animal feed and supplements. Among other things, such laws, and the regulations promulgated thereunder:. • regulate the storage and distribution, labeling, packaging, handling, reporting, record keeping, introduction, manufacturing and marketing of drugs, HCT/P products and medical devices;. • subject us to inspection by the FDA and the DEA;. • regulate the storage, transportation and disposal of certain of our products that are considered hazardous materials;. • regulate the distribution and storage of pharmaceuticals and controlled substances;. • require us to advertise and promote our drugs and devices in accordance with applicable FDA requirements;. • require registration with the FDA and the DEA and various state agencies;. • require record keeping and documentation of transactions involving drug products;. • require us to design and operate a system to identify and report suspicious orders of controlled substances to the DEA;. • require us to manage returns of products that have been recalled and subject us to inspection of our recall procedures and activities; and. • impose reporting requirements if a pharmaceutical, HCT/P product or medical device causes serious illness, injury or death.. By way of example, we are required to hold valid DEA and state-level registrations and licenses, meet various security and operating standards and comply with the Controlled Substances Act and its accompanying regulations governing the storage, sale, marketing and handling of controlled substances.  Applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations also may require us to meet various standards relating to, among other things, licensure or registration, sales and marketing practices, product integrity and supply tracking to the manufacturer of the product, personnel, privacy and security of health or other personal information, installation, maintenance and repair of equipment, and the importation and exportation of products. Our business also is subject to requirements of similar and other foreign governmental laws and regulations affecting our operations abroad.. The failure to comply with any of these regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or the imposition of any additional laws and regulations, could materially adversely affect our business. Allegations by a governmental body that we have not complied with these and future laws could have a material adverse effect on our. 22. Table of Contents. business. If it is determined that we have not complied with these laws, we are potentially subject to penalties including warning letters, civil and criminal penalties, mandatory recall of product, seizure of product and injunction, consent decrees, and suspension or limitation of product sale and distribution. If we enter into settlement agreements to resolve allegations of non-compliance, we could be required to make settlement payments or be subject to civil and criminal penalties, including fines and the loss of licenses. Non-compliance with government requirements could adversely affect our ability to participate in federal and state government health care programs, and damage our reputation.. If we fail to comply with laws and regulations relating to health care fraud or other laws and regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations, which could materially adversely affect our business.. We are subject to federal and state (and similar foreign) health care fraud and abuse, referral and reimbursement laws and regulations. Some of these laws, referred to as \"false claims laws,\" prohibit the submission or causing the submission of false or fraudulent claims for reimbursement to federal, state and other health care payers and programs. Other laws, referred to as \"anti-kickback laws,\" prohibit soliciting, offering, receiving or paying remuneration in order to induce the referral of a patient or ordering, purchasing, leasing or arranging for or recommending ordering, purchasing or leasing, of items or services that are paid for by federal, state and other health care payers and programs. Health care fraud measures may implicate, for example, our relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers, our pricing and incentive programs for physician and dental practices, and our practice management products that offer billing-related functionality.. If we fail to comply with laws and regulations relating to the confidentiality of sensitive personal information or standards in electronic health data transmissions, we could be required to make significant changes to our products, or incur substantial fines, penalties or other liabilities.. The FDA has become increasingly active in addressing the regulation of computer software intended for use in health care settings, and has developed and continues to develop policies on regulating clinical decision support tools and other types of software as medical devices. Certain of our software and related products support practice management, and it is possible that the FDA or foreign government authorities could determine that one or more of our products is a medical device, which could subject us or one or more of our businesses to substantial additional requirements with respect to these products.. Our practice management products include electronic information technology systems that store and process personal health, clinical, financial and other sensitive information of individuals. These information technology systems may be vulnerable to breakdown, wrongful intrusions, data breaches and malicious attack, which could require us to expend significant resources to eliminate these problems and address related security concerns, and could involve claims against us by private parties and/or governmental agencies. For example, we are directly or indirectly subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that protect the privacy and security of such information, such as HIPAA. HIPAA requires, among other things, the implementation of various recordkeeping, operational, notice and other practices intended to safeguard that information, limit its use to allowed purposes and notify individuals in the event of privacy and security breaches. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to breach of contract claims, substantial fines, penalties and other liabilities and expenses, costs for remediation and harm to our reputation. Also, evolving laws and regulations in this area could restrict the ability of our customers to obtain, use or disseminate patient information, or could require us to incur significant additional costs to re-design our products in a timely manner to reflect these legal requirements, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Other health information standards, such as regulations under HIPAA, establish standards regarding electronic health data transmissions and transaction code set rules for specific electronic transactions, such as transactions involving claims submissions to third party payers. Certain of our electronic practice management products must meet these requirements. Failure to abide by electronic health data transmission standards could expose us to breach of contract claims, substantial fines, penalties and other liabilities and expenses, costs for remediation and harm to our reputation.. In addition, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union have adopted the GDPR, effective from May 25, 2018, which increases privacy rights for individuals in Europe, extends the scope or responsibilities for data controllers and data processors and imposes increased requirements and potential penalties on companies offering goods or services to Data Subjects or monitoring the behavior of such individuals (including by companies based outside of Europe). Noncompliance can result in penalties of up to the greater of EUR 20 million, or 4% of global company revenues. Individual member states may impose additional requirements and penalties as they relate to. 23. Table of Contents. certain things such as employee personal data. Among other things, the GDPR requires with respect to data concerning Data Subjects, company accountability, consents from Data Subjects or other acceptable legal basis needed to process the personal data, prompt breach notifications within 72 hours, fairness and transparency in how the personal data is stored, used or otherwise processed, and data integrity and security, and provides rights to Data Subjects relating to modification, erasure and transporting of the personal data. Our compliance with the new regulation is likely to impose additional costs on us, and we cannot predict whether the interpretations of the requirements, or changes in our practices in response to new requirements or interpretations of the requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We also sell products and services that health care providers use to store and manage patient medical or dental records. These customers are subject to laws, regulations and industry standards, such as HIPAA and the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards, which require that they protect the privacy and security of those records, and our products may be used as part of these customers' comprehensive data security programs, including in connection with their efforts to comply with applicable privacy and security laws. Perceived or actual security vulnerabilities in our products or services, or the perceived or actual failure by us or our customers who use our products to comply with applicable legal or contractual requirements, may not only cause us significant reputational harm, but may also lead to claims against us by our customers and/or governmental agencies and involve substantial fines, penalties and other liabilities and expenses and costs for remediation.. Risks generally associated with our information systems and cyber-security attacks could adversely affect our results of operations.. We rely on information systems (\"IS\") in our business to obtain, rapidly process, analyze and manage data to, among other things:. • facilitate the purchase and distribution of thousands of inventory items through numerous fulfillment centers;. • receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis;. • accurately bill and collect from thousands of customers;. • process payments to suppliers; and. • provide products and services that maintain certain of our customers' electronic medical or dental records (including protected health information of their human patients).. As the breadth and complexity of our IS continue to grow, we will increasingly be exposed to the risks inherent in the development, integration and ongoing operation of evolving information systems, including:. • disruption, impairment or failure of data centers, telecommunications facilities or other key infrastructure platforms;. • security breaches of, cyberattacks on and other failures or malfunctions in our critical application systems or their associated hardware; and. • excessive costs, excessive delays or other deficiencies in systems development and deployment.. Our IS are vulnerable to natural disasters, power losses, computer viruses, telecommunication failures and other problems. In addition, information security risks have generally increased in recent years. Increased IS security threats and more sophisticated computer crime, including advanced persistent threats, pose a potential risk to the security of our IS, customers and other business partners, as well as the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of our data, customers and other business partners. Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and are becoming increasingly sophisticated. Despite our efforts to ensure the integrity of our systems, as cyber threats evolve and become more difficult to detect and successfully defend against, one or more cyber threats might defeat the measures that we or our vendors take to anticipate, detect, avoid or mitigate such threats.  Certain techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, introduce malicious software, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems may be designed to remain dormant until a triggering event and we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures since techniques change frequently or are not recognized until launched, and because cyberattacks can originate from a wide variety of sources. These data breaches and any unauthorized access or disclosure of our information could compromise intellectual property and expose sensitive business information. Cyber-attacks could also cause us to incur significant remediation costs, disrupt key business operations and divert attention of management and key information technology resources. A cyber-security attack that bypasses our IS security causing an IS security breach may lead to a material disruption of our IS and/or the loss of business information, which could adversely affect our business. These risks may include, among others, the following:. 24. Table of Contents. • future results could be adversely affected due to the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of confidential data or intellectual property;. • operational or business delays resulting from the disruption or damage of IS and subsequent clean-up and mitigation activities, including our ability to process orders, maintain proper levels of inventories, collect accounts receivable and disburse funds;. • negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with our customers, suppliers or industry peers; and. • lawsuits for, or regulatory proceedings relating to, a breach of personal financial and health information belonging to our customers and their patients.. The materialization of any of these risks may impede the processing of data and the day-to-day management of our business and could result in the corruption, loss or unauthorized disclosure of proprietary, confidential or other data. Disaster recovery plans, where in place, might not adequately protect us in the event of a system failure. Despite any precautions we take, damage from fire, floods, hurricanes, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, break-ins and similar events at our various computer facilities could result in interruptions in the flow of data to our servers.. We also increasingly rely upon server- and Internet-based technologies to run our business and to store our data as well as our customers' data.  The use of such technologies may carry additional cyber-security risks relative to those posed by legacy technologies.  Our Internet-based services also depend on our ability and the ability of our customers access the Internet. In the event of any difficulties, outages or delays by Internet service providers, we may be impeded from providing such services, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and our reputation.. Our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected if our IS are interrupted, damaged by unforeseen events, are subject to cyber-security attacks, or fail for any extended period of time. If our business continuity plans do not provide effective alternative processes on a timely basis, we may suffer interruptions in our ability to manage or conduct our operations, which may adversely affect our business. We may need to expend additional resources in the future to continue to protect against, or to address problems caused by, any business interruptions or data security breaches.. Breaches of information systems security could damage our reputation, disrupt operations, increase costs and/or decrease revenues.. We collect and store confidential information from customers so that they may, among other things, purchase products or services, use our software or practice management systems, enroll in promotional programs, register on our websites, engage in data conversion or otherwise communicate or interact with us. We also acquire and retain information about suppliers, employees and others in the normal course of business. We may be unable to protect sensitive data and/or the integrity of our IS. In addition, compliance with evolving privacy and information security laws and standards may result in significant additional expense due to increased investment in technology and the development of new operational processes. We could be subject to liability for failure to comply with these laws and standards, failure to protect information, or failure to respond appropriately to an incident or misuse of information, including use of information for unauthorized marketing purposes.. The products we sell are subject to market and technological obsolescence; our software products may contain undetected errors or bugs when released.. Some of the products we distribute are subject to technological obsolescence outside of our control, since we do not manufacture the majority of the products we sell. If our customers discontinue purchasing a given product, we might have to record expense related to the diminution in value of inventories we have in stock, and depending on the magnitude, that expense could adversely impact our operating results.. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that we will be successful in introducing and marketing new software, software enhancements, or e-services, or that such software, software enhancements and e-services will be released on time or accepted by the market. Our software and applicable e-services products, like software products generally, may contain undetected errors or bugs when introduced, or as new versions are released. We cannot be sure that future problems with post-release software errors or bugs will not occur. Any such defective software may result in increased expenses related to the software and could adversely affect our relationships with the customers using such software, as well as our reputation. We do not have any patents on our software or e-services, and rely upon copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as contractual and common-law protections. We cannot provide assurance that such legal protections will be available or enforceable to protect our software or e-services products.. 25. Table of Contents. Volatility in the financial markets could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. Volatility and other disruptions in the financial markets could adversely affect the cost and availability of credit to us, as well as the cost of, and ability to sell, finance contracts we receive from customers to outside financial institutions. Reduced access to capital for our customers limits the amount of investment that they can make in their businesses, and with limited investment by the customer, our revenue from equipment sales could be adversely affected.. Our ability to make payments on our debt obligations depends on our performance.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or refinance, our debt obligations depends on our operational and financial performance, which is subject to general economic, financial market, competitive, regulatory and other conditions and the interest rate environment that are beyond our control. If our performance were to suffer, our access to the capital necessary to run our business may become limited.. The market price for our common stock may be highly volatile.. The market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. A variety of factors may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, including, but not limited to:. • the publication of earnings estimates or other research reports and speculation in the press or investment community;. • changes in our industry and competitors;. • changes in government or legislation;. • our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and prospects;. • stock repurchases;. • activism by any single large shareholder or combination of shareholders;. • any future issuances of our common stock, which may include primary offerings for cash, stock splits, issuances in connection with business acquisitions, issuances of restricted stock/units and the grant or exercise of stock options from time to time;. • general market and economic conditions; and. • any outbreak or escalation of hostilities in areas where we do business.. In addition, the NASDAQ Stock Market can experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that can be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the companies listed on NASDAQ. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies. This type of litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Recent significant changes to our executive leadership team and any future loss of members of such team, and the resulting management transitions might harm our future operating results.. We have recently experienced significant changes to our senior leadership team. In June 2017, we announced a leadership transition involving our Chief Executive Officer. Following the service of an Interim Chief Executive Officer, our board appointed a successor Chief Executive Officer whose employment commenced in November 2017. In March 2018, we announced a leadership transition involving our Chief Financial Officer and our board has appointed a successor Chief Financial Officer whose employment commences on June 29, 2018. These types of management changes have the potential to disrupt our operations due to the operational and administrative inefficiencies, added costs, decreased employee morale, uncertainty and decreased productively among our employees, increased likelihood of turnover, and the loss of personnel with deep institutional knowledge, which could result in significant disruptions to our operations. In addition, we must successfully integrate the new executive leadership team members within our organization in order to achieve our operating objectives, and changes in key leadership positions may temporarily affect our financial performance and results of operations as new leadership becomes familiar with our business.  These changes could increase the volatility of our stock price. These changes also increase our dependency on other members of the executive leadership team who remain with us. These individuals are not contractually obligated to remain employed by us and may leave at any time. Such a departure could be particularly disruptive in light of the recent transitions. In addition, the loss of any of these individuals could significantly delay, prevent the achievement of, or make it more difficult for us to pursue and execute on our business objectives, and could have an. 26. Table of Contents. adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. If we are unable to mitigate these or other similar risks, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.. Our future success depends on our leadership development and succession planning.. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to recruit skilled personnel and then train our personnel to support the long-term growth of our business. While our Board of Directors and management actively monitor our succession plans and processes, our business could suffer if we lose key personnel unexpectedly. In addition, competition for senior management is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining key personnel.. We may experience significant disruptions in our operations resulting from our enterprise resource planning system initiatives.. We depend on our information technology systems and our financial shared services for the efficient functioning of our business, including accounting, billing, data storage, purchasing and inventory management. In addition, we have implemented an enterprise resource planning (\"ERP\") system across certain significant operating locations to support our operations. The implementation of this ERP system required, and will continue to require, the investment of human and financial resources. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur additional expenses as we continue to enhance and develop our ERP system. As a result of our ERP initiatives, we may encounter difficulties in operating our business, which could disrupt our operations, including our ability to timely ship and track customer orders, determine inventory requirements, manage our supply chain, manage customer billing and otherwise adequately service our customers, and lead to increased costs and other difficulties. If we experience significant disruptions resulting from our ERP initiatives, we may not be able to repair our systems in an efficient and timely manner. Accordingly, such events may disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our entire operation and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cash flows.. Our business could be negatively adversely affected as a result of shareholder activism.. We could face adverse consequences as a result of the actions of activist investors. Campaigns by shareholders to effect changes at publicly traded companies are sometimes led by investors seeking to increase short-term shareholder value through actions such as financial restructuring, increased debt, special dividends, stock repurchases or sales of assets or the entire company. Responding to shareholder activism or engaging in a process or proxy contest may be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our operations and divert the attention of our management team and our employees from executing our business plan, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired.. Our balance sheet includes goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. If impairment of our goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets is determined, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in the period of such determination under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).. Our credit agreement contains restrictive covenants and our other debt instruments contain cross-default provisions, which limit our business and financing activities.. In order to fund our financial obligations in connection with the Animal Health International, Inc. acquisition, we entered into a credit agreement, which includes customary covenants that impose restrictions on our business and financing activities, subject to certain exceptions or the consent of our lenders, including, among other things, limits on our ability to incur additional debt, create liens, enter into merger, acquisition and divestiture transactions, pay dividends and engage in transactions with affiliates. The credit agreement contains certain customary affirmative covenants, including a requirement that we maintain a maximum consolidated leverage ratio and a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio, and customary events of default. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be adversely affected by events beyond our control, including economic, financial and industry conditions. A breach of the credit agreement covenants may result in an event of default, which could allow our lenders to terminate the commitments under the credit agreement, declare all amounts outstanding under the credit agreement (if any), together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable, and exercise other rights and remedies, and, through cross-default provisions, would entitle our other lenders to accelerate their loans. If this occurs, we may not be able to refinance the accelerated indebtedness on acceptable terms, or at all, or otherwise repay the accelerated indebtedness.. 27. Table of Contents. Audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods, and tax legislation could materially adversely affect our financial results and tax liabilities.. The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by U.S. federal, state and local tax authorities and by non-U.S. tax authorities. If these audits result in assessments different from our reserves, our future results may include unfavorable adjustments to our tax liabilities.. We are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the U.S. federal, state and local governments, as well as foreign jurisdictions. From time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could materially adversely affect our tax positions. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate will not be materially adversely affected by legislation resulting from these initiatives. On December 22, 2017, U.S. government enacted legislation referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"Tax Act\"), which significantly revises the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  This law may have a significant impact on our U.S. tax liabilities.  The legislation is unclear in certain respects and will require the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") to issue regulations and interpretations, and possibly technical corrections.  While there can be no assurance as to the impact of any additional guidance by the IRS, or of any guidance that may be issued by the SEC or the Financial Accounting Standards Board relating to the Tax Act, we have recorded a provisional amount of income tax to reflect the impact of the law change based on management's current interpretation of the new legislation.  The ultimate impact of U.S. tax reform could be materially different from current estimates based on our actual results and further analysis of the new law.  In addition, it is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to the newly enacted federal tax law.. In addition, tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. Although we believe that our historical tax positions are sound and consistent with applicable laws, regulations and existing precedent, they can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge.. We are exposed to the risk of changes in interest rates.. Our balance sheet includes certain non-current assets that are sensitive to movements in short-term interest rates. The variable rates are comprised of both LIBOR and commercial paper rates plus a spread and reset on certain dates, as set forth in the respective agreements. In addition, our balance sheet includes fixed rate long-term debt, whose fair value could be adversely affected by movements in interest rates. We finance purchases by our customers using finance contracts that are issued at fixed interest rates, and sell these contracts under various funding arrangements that are priced using variable interest rates. Sudden and dramatic changes in the interest rates within relevant markets could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our governing documents, other documents to which we are a party, and Minnesota law may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our shareholders might consider to be in their best interests.. Anti-takeover provisions of our articles of incorporation, bylaws, and Minnesota law could diminish the opportunity for shareholders to participate in acquisition proposals at a price above the then current market price of our common stock. For example, while we have no present plans to issue any preferred stock, our Board of Directors, without further shareholder approval, may issue up to approximately 30 million shares of undesignated preferred stock and fix the powers, preferences, rights and limitations of such class or series, which could adversely affect the voting power of our common stock. Further, as a Minnesota corporation, we are subject to provisions of the Minnesota Business Corporation Act, or MBCA, regarding \"control share acquisitions\" and \"business combinations.\" We may, in the future, consider adopting additional anti-takeover measures. The authority of our Board of Directors to issue undesignated preferred stock and the anti-takeover provisions of the MBCA, as well as any future anti-takeover measures adopted by us, may, in certain circumstances, delay, deter or prevent takeover attempts and other changes in control of our company not approved by our Board of Directors.. In addition, our Amended and Restated Equity Incentive Plan provides that awards issued under that plan are fully vested and all restrictions on the awards lapse in the event of a change in control, as defined in such plan. Additionally, our Capital Accumulation Plan provides that on an event of acceleration, as defined in the plan, the restrictions on shares of restricted stock lapse and such stock becomes fully vested. An event of acceleration occurs if (a) a person has acquired a beneficial ownership interest in 30% or more of the voting power of our company, (b) a tender offer is made to acquire 30% or more of our company, (c) a solicitation subject to Rule 14a-11 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 relating to the election or removal of 50% or more of our Board of Directors occurs, or (d) our shareholders approve a merger, consolidation, share exchange, division or sale of our company's assets. Furthermore, if the surviving. 28. Table of Contents. or acquiring company in a change in control does not assume our company's outstanding incentive awards or provide for their equivalent substitutes, our 2015 Omnibus Incentive Plan provides for accelerated vesting of incentive awards following a change in control upon the termination of the employee's service and in certain other circumstances, provided such event occurs within two years of a change in control."
