[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and you may lose some or all of your investment.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS. Loss of key resellers could reduce our revenue growth.. Our reseller sales channel, which purchases and resells our end-to-end services to its own portfolio of merchant customers, is a strong contributor to our revenue growth. If a reseller switches to another transaction processor, shuts down, becomes insolvent, or enters the processing business themselves, we may no longer receive new merchant referrals from the reseller, and we risk losing existing merchants that were originally enrolled by the reseller, all of which could negatively affect our revenues and earnings.. We may need additional financing in the future. We may be unable to obtain additional financing or if we obtain financing it may not be on terms favorable to us. You may lose your entire investment.. Based on our current plans, we believe our existing cash and cash equivalents, along with cash generated from this offering, will be sufficient to fund our operating expense and capital requirements for at least 12 months, although we may need funds in the future. If our capital resources are insufficient to meet future capital requirements, we will have to raise additional funds. If we. are unable to obtain additional funds on terms favorable to us, we may be required to cease or reduce our operating activities. If we must cease or reduce our operating activities, you may lose your entire investment.. We may be liable for employment taxes for vesting equity awards granted to employees in the past.. In the past we have granted equity awards, including restricted stock awards, to certain of our employees, including to our executive officers and directors. Upon vesting of these awards we are liable for employment withholding taxes payable in cash.  Some of these amounts may be substantial which may impact our business and results of operations.. We may not realize the opportunities from the acquisition of the Singular Payments, LLC .. On September 1, 2017, we acquired Singular Payments, LLC, a Florida limited liability company and credit card processor for a purchase price of $5 million. With Singular Payments we acquired new customers and their sales force. The former owner of Singular Payments, Vaden Landers, became our Chief Revenue Officer. We bought an existing portfolio of customers with a significant revenue stream and a talented sales force with significant experience in the credit card industry. This acquisition increased our ability to grow new revenue streams and enhance existing revenue streams.  The success of the Singular Payments acquisition will continue to depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities from integrating the acquired business with our business and banking sponsor, including integrating its services into our offering of products and services. Our success depends on the successful integration of our and the acquired business's operations and information and financial systems. We cannot assure you that we will be able to realize such opportunities or that our management will not be distracted by the integration of the acquired business.. If our security applications are not sufficient to address changing market conditions and customer concerns, we may incur significant losses and be unable to sell our services.. Our use of applications designed for premium data security and integrity to process electronic transactions may not be sufficient to address changing market conditions or the security and privacy concerns of existing and potential customers. If our security applications are breached and sensitive data is lost or stolen, we could incur significant costs to not only assess and repair any damage to our systems, but also to reimburse customers for losses that occur from the fraudulent use of the data. We may also be subject to fines and penalties from the credit card associations or regulatory agencies in the event of the loss of confidential account information.  Further, adverse publicity raising concerns about the safety or privacy of electronic transactions, or widely reported breaches of our or another provider's security, have the potential to undermine consumer confidence in the technology and could have a materially adverse effect on our business.. If we do not adapt to rapid technological change, our business may fail.. Our success depends on our ability to develop new and enhanced services and related products that meet changing customer needs. However, the market for our services is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, emerging competition and frequent new and enhanced software, service and related product introductions.  In addition, the software market is subject to rapid and substantial technological change.  To remain successful, we must respond to new developments in hardware and semiconductor technology, operating systems, programming technology and computer capabilities. In many instances, new and enhanced services, products and technologies are in the emerging stages of development and marketing, and are subject to the risks inherent in the development and marketing of new software, services and products. We may not successfully identify new service opportunities, and develop and bring new and enhanced services and related products to market in a timely manner. Even if we do bring such services, products or technologies to market, they may not become commercially successful.  Additionally, services, products or technologies developed by others may render our services and related products noncompetitive or obsolete. If we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new services and products in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, our business may fail.. We rely on our relationship with the Automated Clearing House network and if the Federal Reserve rules were to change, our business could be adversely affected.. We have contractual relationships with Fifth Third Bank, North American Banking Company, or NABC, Evolve Bank & Trust and Metropolitan Commercial Bank which are Originating Depository Financial Institutions (ODFI) in the ACH network.  The ACH network is a nationwide batch-oriented electronic funds transfer system that provides for the interbank clearing of electronic payments for participating financial institutions. An Originating Depository Financial Institution is a participating financial institution that must abide by the provisions of the ACH Operating Rules and Guidelines.  Through our relationships with Fifth Third Bank, Metropolitan Commercial Bank and NABC, we are able to process payment transactions on behalf of our customers and their consumers by submitting payment instructions in a prescribed ACH format.  We pay volume-based fees to Metropolitan. Commercial Bank, Fifth Third Bank, Evolve Bank & Trust and NABC for debit and credit transactions processed each month, and pay fees for other transactions such as returns and notices of change to bank accounts.  These fees are part of our agreed-upon cost structures with the banks.  If the Federal Reserve rules were to introduce restrictions or modify access to the Automated Clearing House, our business could be materially adversely affected.  Further, if either, two or all four of Fifth Third Bank, Metropolitan Commercial Bank, Evolve Bank & Trust and NABC were to cancel our respective contract with the bank, our business could be materially affected.  At this time, we believe we could find and enter into additional agreements with other bank sponsors on similar contractual terms, but no assurances can be made.. If our third-party card processing providers or our bank sponsors fail to comply with the applicable requirements of Visa, MasterCard and Discover credit card associations, we may have to find a new third-party processing provider, which could increase our costs.. Substantially all of the card-based transactions we process involve the use of Visa, MasterCard or Discover credit cards.  In order to provide payment-processing services for Visa, MasterCard and Discover transactions, we must be sponsored by a financial institution that is a principal member of the respective Visa, MasterCard and Discover card associations.  Both Central Bank of St. Louis and Wells Fargo Bank have sponsored us under the designations Third Party Processor, or TPP, and Independent Sales Organization, or ISO, with the Visa card association, and under the designations Third Party Servicer, or TPS, and Merchant Service Provider, or MSP, with the MasterCard card association.  We have agreements with TriSource Solutions, LLC, Card Connect / First Data Merchant Services Corp. and Global Payments Inc. through which their member banks, Central Bank of St. Louis and Wells Fargo, sponsor us for membership in the Visa and MasterCard card associations, and settle card transactions for our merchants.  If our third-party processing provider, TriSource Solutions, Card Connect or Global Payments, or our bank sponsors, Central Bank of St. Louis, Wells Fargo Bank or Pueblo Bank and Trust, previously, with our PINless debit card product, fail to comply with the applicable requirements of the Visa, MasterCard, and Discover card associations, Visa, MasterCard or Discover could suspend or terminate the registration of our third-party processing provider.  Also, our contracts with both of these third parties are subject to cancellation upon limited notice by either party.  The cancellation of either contract, termination of their registration or any changes in the Visa, MasterCard or Discover rules that would impair the registration of our third-party processing provider could require us to stop providing such payment processing services if we are unable to enter into a similar agreement with another provider or sponsor at similar costs and upon similar contractual terms.  Additionally, changing our bank sponsor could adversely affect our relationship with our merchants if the new sponsor provides inferior service or charges higher costs.. We have incurred substantial losses in the past and may incur additional losses in the future.. We reported a net loss of $3,008,785 and $1,196,642 for the years ended December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively.  Including these results, we have an accumulated deficit of $53,260,426 at December 31, 2017.  Our future operating results are not certain and we  may incur future operating losses.  On September 1, 2017, we acquired Singular Payments, LLC.   Singular Payments was a credit card processing Independent Sales Organization comprised primarily of highly driven sales leaders and industry leaders.  With the Singular Payments acquisition, we bought an existing portfolio of customers with a significant revenue stream and a talented sales force with significant experience in the credit card industry. This acquisition enhances our ability to grow new revenue streams and enhance existing revenue streams.  We may need to raise additional capital to pursue product development initiatives and to penetrate additional markets for the sale of our products in the future.  We believe that we have access to capital resources through possible public or private equity offerings, debt financings, corporate collaborations or other means.  If we are unable to secure additional capital, we may be required to curtail our research and development initiatives and take additional measures to reduce costs in order to conserve our cash in amounts sufficient to sustain operations and meet our obligations.  These measures could cause significant delays in our efforts to expand our product offerings and customer base in the United States, which are critical to the realization of our business plan and to future operations.. Our prepaid card revenues from the sale of services to merchants that accept MasterCard cards are dependent upon our continued MasterCard registration and financial institution sponsorship and, in some cases, continued participation in certain payment networks.. In order to provide processing services for our MasterCard prepaid card program, we must be either a member of a payment network or be registered as a prepaid processor of MasterCard. Sunrise Banks, N.A., formerly known as University National Bank, and Metropolitan Commercial Bank have sponsored us under the designations Third Party Servicer, or TPS, and Merchant Service Provider, or MSP, with the MasterCard card association.  Registration as a prepaid processor is dependent upon us being sponsored by member clearing banks. If our sponsor banks should stop providing sponsorship for us, we would need to find another financial institution to provide those services or we would need to be a member, either of which could prove to be difficult and/or more expensive.  If we are unable to find a replacement financial institution to provide sponsorship or become a member of the association, we may no longer be able to provide prepaid processing services to our MasterCard customers, which would negatively impact our revenues and earnings.. If we fail to comply with the applicable requirements of the respective card networks, they could seek to fine us, suspend us or terminate our registrations. If our merchants or ISOs incur fines or penalties that we cannot collect from them, we could end up bearing the cost of fines or penalties.. In order to provide our transaction processing services, we are registered with Visa, MasterCard and Discover as service providers and transaction processors for member institutions and with other networks.  As such, we are subject to card association and network rules that could subject us to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the card networks for certain acts or omissions.  The rules of the card networks are set by their boards, which may be influenced by banks that own their stock and, in the case of Discover by the card's issuers, and some of those banks and issuers are our competitors with respect to these processing services.  The termination of our registrations or our status as a service provider or transaction processor, or any changes in card association or other network rules or standards, including interpretation and implementation of the rules or standards, that increase the cost of doing business or limit our ability to provide transaction processing services to our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.  If a merchant or one of our resellers fails to comply with the applicable requirements of the card associations and networks, it could be subject to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the card associations or networks.  If we cannot collect such amounts from the applicable merchant or one of our resellers, we could end up bearing such fines or penalties, resulting in lower earnings for us.. We are subject to extensive and complex federal and state regulation and new regulations and/or changes to existing regulations could adversely affect our business.. As an agent of, and third-party service provider to, our issuing banks, we are subject to indirect regulation and direct audit and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or the FRB, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.. On March 23, 2010, the FRB issued a final rule implementing Title IV of the Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility, and Disclosure Act of 2009, or CARD Act, which imposes requirements relating to disclosures, fees and expiration dates that are generally applicable to gift certificates, store gift cards and general-use prepaid cards. We believe that our general-purpose reloadable prepaid cards, and the maintenance fees charged on our general-purpose reloadable cards, are exempt from the requirements under this rule, as they fall within an express exclusion for cards which are reloadable and not marketed or labeled as a gift card or gift certificate.  However, this exclusion is not available if the issuer, the retailer selling the card to a consumer or the program manager, promotes, even if occasionally, the use of the card as a gift card or gift certificate.  As a result, we provide retailers with instructions and policies regarding the display and promotion of our general-purpose reloadable cards.  However, it is possible that despite our instructions and policies to the contrary, a retailer engaged in offering our general-purpose reloadable cards to consumers could take an action with respect to one or more of the cards that would cause each similar card to be viewed as being marketed or labeled as a gift card, such as by placing our general-purpose reloadable cards on a display which prominently features the availability of gift cards and does not separate or otherwise distinguish our general purpose reloadable cards from the gift cards.  In such event, it is possible that such general-purpose reloadable cards would lose their eligibility for such exclusion to the CARD Act and its requirements, and therefore could be deemed to be in violation of the CARD Act and the rule, which could result in the imposition of fines, the suspension of our ability to offer our general-purpose reloadable cards, civil liability, criminal liability, and the inability of our issuing banks to apply certain fees to our general-purpose reloadable cards, each of which would likely have a material adverse impact on our revenues.. In 2014, we resumed issuing gift cards.  Any gift cards we issue will be governed by the CARD act and other various regulations.  Any violations with our gift card issuance could result in the imposition of fines, the suspension of our ability to offer our gift cards, civil liability, criminal liability, and the inability of our issuing banks to apply certain fees to our gift cards, each of which would likely have a material adverse impact on our revenues.. As the laws applicable to our business, and those of our distributors and issuing banks, change frequently, are often unclear and may differ or conflict between jurisdictions, ensuring compliance has become more difficult and costly.  Any failure, or perceived failure, by us, our issuing banks or our distributors to comply with all applicable statutes and regulations could result in fines, penalties, regulatory enforcement actions, civil liability, criminal liability, and/or limitations on our ability to operate our business, each of which could significantly harm our reputation and have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. State and federal legislatures and regulatory authorities have become increasingly focused upon the regulation of the financial services industry and continue to adopt new legislation which could result in significant changes in the regulatory landscape for financial institutions, which can include our bank sponsors, and other financial services companies, such as our Company.. If we fail to comply with complex and expanding consumer protection regulations, our business could be adversely affected.. The establishment of the federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, or CFPB, will likely expose us to increased regulatory oversight and possibly more burdensome regulation that could have an adverse impact on our revenue and profits.  On October 5, 2016, the CFPB issued a final rule to regulate certain prepaid accounts, or the Prepaid Account Rule.  The Prepaid Account Rule mandates, among other things, extensive pre-purchase and post-purchase disclosures, expanded electronic billing statements; adherence to certain overdraft regulations for prepaid accounts that permit negative balances, and public posting of account agreements and submission to the CFPB which will then publish them on its website. The Prepaid Account Rule became effective  October 1, 2017, subject to certain exceptions.  Compliance with these obligations may result in increased compliance costs for us, our issuing banks and our distributors, and may therefore have a negative impact on the profitability of our business.. Our card programs are subject to strict regulation under federal law regarding anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing. Failure to comply with such laws, or abuse of our card programs for purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing, could have a material adverse impact on our business.. Provisions of the USA PATRIOT Act, the Bank Secrecy Act and other federal law impose substantial regulation of financial institutions designed to prevent use of financial services for purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing. Increasing regulatory scrutiny of our industry with respect to money laundering and terrorist financing matters could result in more aggressive enforcement of such laws or more onerous regulation, which could have a material adverse impact on our business.  In addition, abuse of our prepaid card programs for purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing, notwithstanding our efforts to prevent such abuse through our regulatory compliance and risk management programs, could cause reputational or other harm that would have a material adverse impact on our business.. Effective September 27, 2011, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, or FinCEN, issued a final rule regarding the applicability of the Bank Secrecy Act's anti-money laundering provisions to prepaid products and other matters related to the regulation of money services businesses.  This rule created additional obligations for entities, including our distributors, engaged in the provision and sale of certain prepaid products, including our prepaid debit cards, such as the obligation for sellers of prepaid debit cards to obtain identification information from the purchaser at the point-of-sale.  Compliance with these obligations may result in increased compliance costs for us, our issuing banks and our distributors, and may therefore have a negative impact on the profitability of our business.. Unauthorized disclosure of cardholder data, whether through breach of our computer systems or otherwise, could expose us to liability and protracted and costly litigation.. We collect and store personal identifiable information about our cardholders, including names, addresses, social security numbers, driver's license numbers and account numbers, and maintain a database of cardholder data relating to specific transactions, including account numbers, in order to process transactions and prevent fraud.  As a result, we are required to comply with the privacy provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, various other federal and state privacy statutes and regulations, and the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, each of which is subject to change at any time.  Compliance with these requirements is often difficult and costly, and our failure, or our distributors' failure, to comply may result in significant fines or civil penalties, regulatory enforcement action, liability to our issuing banks and termination of our agreements with one or more of our issuing banks, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and/or operations. In addition, a significant breach could result in our Company being prohibited from processing transactions for any of the relevant card associations or network organizations, including Visa, MasterCard, American Express, Discover or regional debit networks, which would also have a significant material adverse impact on our financial position and/or operations.. Furthermore, if our computer systems are breached by unauthorized users, we may be subject to liability, including claims for unauthorized purchases with misappropriated bank card information, impersonation or similar fraud claims.  We could also be subject to liability for claims relating to misuse of personal information, such as unauthorized marketing purposes, or failure to comply with laws governing notification of such breaches.  These claims also could result in protracted and costly litigation. In addition, we could be subject to penalties or sanctions from the relevant card associations or network organizations.. If our efforts to protect the security of information about our customers, cardholders and vendors are unsuccessful, we may face additional costly government enforcement actions and private litigation, and our sales and reputation could suffer.. An important component of our business involves the receipt and storage of information about our cardholders and banking information.  We have multiple programs and processes in place to detect and respond to data security incidents. However, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive. measures.  In addition, hardware, software, or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security.  Unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities, or those of third parties with whom we do business, through fraud, trickery, or other forms of deceiving our vendors, contractors, and employees.  If we, our customers, or our vendors experience significant data security breaches or fail to detect and appropriately respond to significant data security breaches, we could be exposed to government enforcement actions and private litigation.  In addition, our cardholders and customers could lose confidence in our ability to protect their information, which could cause them to discontinue using our services.. We will be liable for separation payments in case of change in control, termination without cause, non-renewal of the agreement, death, or disability under the respective employment agreements with our Chairman, Mr. Long and our President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Hoch, which could have an adverse effect on our cash position and on our financial results.. Pursuant to our respective employment agreements with Michael Long, Chairman, and Louis Hoch, President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chief Operating Officer, as amended, in the event of change in control, termination without cause, or non-renewal of the employment agreement, we will be liable for separation payments, equaling an amount of (a) 2.95 the respective base salary and bonus payments, plus (b) a pro rata portion of the respective annual bonus based on the number of days elapsed in the year prior, plus (c) 2.0 times the respective base salary for non-competition, and (d) continuing other benefits.  We estimate the cash disbursements over time to be $1.5 to $2.0 million each for the respective agreements with Mr. Long and Mr. Hoch.. In the case of termination of the agreement due to death of the executive, we will be liable for separation payments, equaling an amount of 2.95 the respective base salary. The deferred compensation does not include amounts paid or accrued to executive for bonuses or bonus compensation, benefits or equity awards.  Unpaid and unearned bonus compensation or bonus deferred compensation is forfeited. No deferred compensation will be due as long as we and/or an insurance company continues to pay executive's base salary, minus any monthly base salary already paid to the executive prior to his death pursuant to the executive's disability, to the executive's estate for a period of up to 36 months.  If these continuing payments cease before 36 months, we will have to pay the executive's estate the deferred compensation minus any base salary payments within 30 days of the cessation.  We estimate the cash disbursements over time to be approximately $1.0 million each for the respective agreements with Mr. Long and Mr. Hoch.  Further, all stock options issued to the executive and all restricted stock granted to executive shall continue on their vesting schedule.. In the case of termination of the agreement due to disability without death, we will be liable for separation payments, equaling an amount of disability benefits constituting base salary for 3 years.  We estimate the cash disbursement over time to be $0.7 to $0.8 million for each for the respective agreements with Mr. Long and Mr. Hoch.  Unpaid and unearned bonus compensation or bonus deferred compensation is forfeited.  Further, all stock options issued to the executive and all restricted stock granted to executive shall continue on their vesting schedule.  No further compensation will be due for compliance with the agreements' non-compete, non-solicitation and disparagement clauses.. Depending on when such an event might occur, it could have a substantial adverse effect on our operating capital and cash on hand.  If our cash position is not sufficient, we may need to raise additional cash which could involve selling equity securities which would dilute our shareholders.  In addition, the loss of our Chairman or Chief Executive Officer may adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We depend on Michael R. Long, our co-founder and Chairman of the Board, and Louis A. Hoch, our President, Chief Executive and Chief Operating Officer, and if these persons ceased to be active in our management, our business may not be successful.. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our key management, marketing, service and related product development and operational personnel, including our co-founder and Board Chairman Michael R. Long, and our President and Chief Executive and Chief Operating Officer, Louis A. Hoch.  We entered into employment agreements with Mr. Long and Mr. Hoch, respectively, in February 2007 and update their agreements as changes are required.  The terms of the agreements are substantially similar and prohibit the executive from competing with us for a period of two years from the executive's date of termination.  Our business may not be successful if, for any reason, either or both of these persons cease to be active in our management.. If we lose key personnel or we are unable to attract, recruit, retain and develop qualified employees, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. In order for us to successfully compete and grow, we must attract, recruit, retain and develop the necessary personnel who can provide the needed expertise and skills across the spectrum of our intellectual capital needs. The market for qualified personnel. is highly competitive and we may not be successful in recruiting qualified personnel for needed skill sets or replacing current personnel who leave us.  Failure to retain or attract key personnel and skill sets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If our software fails, and we need to repair or replace it, or we become subject to warranty claims, our costs could increase.. Our software products could contain errors or \"bugs\" that could adversely affect the performance of services or damage a user's data.  We attempt to limit our potential liability for warranty claims through technical audits and limitation-of-liability provisions in our customer agreements.  However, these measures may not be effective in limiting our exposure to warranty claims.  We have not experienced a significant increase in software errors or warranty claims.  Despite the existence of various security precautions, our computer infrastructure may also be vulnerable to viruses or similar disruptive problems caused by our customers or third parties gaining access to our processing system.. We depend on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer network systems, software, data center and telecommunications networks, as well as the systems and services of third parties.  Our systems and operations or those of our third-party providers could be exposed to damage or interruption from, among other things, fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist acts, war, unauthorized entry, human error, and computer viruses or other defects.  Defects in our systems or those of third parties, errors or delays in the processing of payment transactions, telecommunications failures or other difficulties could result in loss of revenue, loss of merchants, loss of merchant and cardholder data, harm to our business or reputation, exposure to fraud losses or other liabilities, negative publicity, additional operating and development costs, and/or diversion of technical and other resources.  We perform the vast majority of disaster recovery operations ourselves, though we utilize select third parties for some aspects of recovery.  To the extent we outsource our disaster recovery, we are at risk of the vendor's unresponsiveness in the event of breakdowns in our systems.. Risks associated with reduced levels of consumer spending could adversely affect our revenues and earnings.. Significant portions of our revenue and earnings are derived from fees from processing consumer ACH, prepaid, credit, and debit card transactions.  We are exposed to general economic conditions that affect consumer confidence, consumer spending, consumer discretionary income or changes in consumer purchasing habits.  A general reduction in consumer spending in the United States or in any other country where we do business could adversely affect our revenues and earnings.. Fraud by merchants or others could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.. We have potential liability for fraudulent bankcard, ACH and prepaid card transactions or credits initiated by merchants or others. Examples of merchant fraud include when a merchant knowingly uses a stolen or counterfeit bankcard, card number or bank account to record a false sales transaction, processes an invalid bankcard, or intentionally fails to deliver the merchandise or services sold in an otherwise valid transaction.  Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to engage in illegal activities such as counterfeit and fraud.  While we have systems and procedures designed to detect and reduce the impact of fraud, we cannot assure the effectiveness of these measures.  It is possible that incidents of fraud could increase in the future.  Failure to effectively manage risk and prevent fraud would increase our chargeback liability or cause us to incur other liabilities including regulatory and association fines, penalties and harm to our reputation.  Increases in chargebacks or other liabilities could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.. Increases in credit card network fees may result in the loss of customers or a reduction in our earnings.. From time to time, the card networks, including Visa, MasterCard, and Discover, increase the fees (interchange and assessment fees) that they charge processors such as us.  We may attempt to pass these increases along to our merchant customers, but this strategy might result in the loss of those customers to our competitors who do not pass along the increases.  If competitive practices prevent our passing along such increased fees to our merchant customers in the future, we may have to absorb all or a portion of such increases thereby increasing our operating costs and reducing our earnings.. We are subject to risks and write-offs resulting from fraudulent activities and losses from overdrawn cardholder accounts that could adversely impact our financial performance and results of operations.. Our prepaid cards expose us to threats involving the misuse of such cards, collusion, fraud, identity theft and systemic attacks on our systems.  Although a large portion of fraudulent activity is addressed through the chargeback systems and procedures maintained by the card association networks, we are often responsible for other losses due to merchant and cardholder fraud.  No system or procedures established to detect and reduce the impact of fraud are entirely effective and we recorded no fraud losses in 2017  or. 2016.  Although we actively devote efforts to effectively manage risk and prevent fraud, we could nevertheless experience an increase in fraud losses over our historical experience.. Our cardholders can in some circumstances incur charges in excess of the funds available in their accounts and are liable for the resulting overdrawn account balance. Although we generally decline authorization attempts for amounts that exceed the available balance in a cardholder's account, the application of the card association networks' rules and regulations, the timing of the settlement of transactions and the assessment of subscription, maintenance or other fees can, among other things, result in overdrawn card accounts. As of December 31, 2017, our cardholders' overdrawn account balances totaled $12,700.. Although we maintain reserves for fraud and other losses, our exposure to these types of risks may exceed our reserve levels for a variety of reasons, including our failure to predict the actual recovery rate, failure to effectively manage risk and failure to prevent fraud.  Accordingly, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected to the extent that we incur losses resulting from overdrawn cardholder accounts and fraudulent activity that exceed our designated reserves or if we determine that it is necessary to increase our reserves substantially in order to address any increased recovery risk.. Our business strategy includes identifying businesses and assets to acquire, and if we cannot integrate acquisitions into our company successfully, we may have limited growth.. Our success partially depends upon our ability to identify and acquire undervalued businesses and merchant portfolios within our industry.  Although we believe that there are companies and portfolios available for potential acquisition that might offer attractive business opportunities, we may not be able to make any acquisitions, and if we do make acquisitions, they may not be profitable. As a result, our business may not grow or regain profitability.. If we do not manage our growth, then we may not be able to regain or sustain profitability.. In order to manage our growth successfully, we will have to continue to improve our operational, management and financial systems and expand our work force.  A significant increase in our customer base may necessitate the hiring of a significant number of additional personnel, qualified candidates for which, at the time needed, may be in short supply.  In addition, the expansion and adaptation of our computer and administrative infrastructure will require substantial operational, management and financial resources.  Although we believe that our current infrastructure is adequate to meet the needs of our customers in the foreseeable future, we may not be able to expand and adapt our infrastructure to meet additional demand on a timely basis, at a commercially reasonable cost, or at all.  If our management is unable to manage growth effectively, hire needed personnel, expand and adapt our computer infrastructure and improve our operational, management, and financial systems and controls, we may not regain profitability.. If we do not manage our credit risks related to our merchant accounts, we may incur significant losses.. We rely on the Federal Reserve's Automated Clearing House system for electronic fund transfers and the Visa, MasterCard and Discover associations for settlement of payments by credit or debit card on behalf of our merchant customers.  In our use of these established payment clearance systems, we generally bear the credit risks arising from returned transactions caused by insufficient funds, stop payment orders, closed accounts, frozen accounts, unauthorized use, disputes, customer charge backs, theft or fraud. Consequently, we assume the credit risk of merchant disputes, fraud, insolvency or bankruptcy in the event we attempt to recover funds related to such transactions from our customers.  We have not experienced a significant increase in the rate of returned transactions or incurred any losses with respect to such transactions. We utilize a number of systems and procedures to manage and limit credit risks, but if these actions are not successful in managing such risks, we may incur significant losses.. We have adopted certain measures that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our Company.. Our Board of Directors is classified into three classes of directors serving staggered three-year terms. Such classification of the Board of Directors expands the time required to change the composition of a majority of directors and may tend to discourage a proxy contest or other takeover bid for our company.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY. The electronic commerce market is evolving and if it does not grow, we may not be able to sell sufficient services to make our business viable.. The electronic commerce market is a service industry that continues to grow significantly.  If the electronic commerce market fails to grow or grows slower than anticipated, or if we, despite an investment of significant resources, are unable to adapt to meet. changing customer requirements or technological changes in this emerging market, or if our services and related products do not maintain a proportionate degree of acceptance in this growing market, our business may not grow and could even fail.  Additionally, the security and privacy concerns of existing and potential customers may inhibit the growth of the electronic commerce market in general, and our customer base and revenues, in particular.  Similar to the emergence of the credit card and automatic teller machine industries, we and other organizations serving the electronic commerce market must educate users that electronic transactions use encryption technology and other electronic security measures that make electronic transactions more secure than paper-based transactions.. Changes in regulation of electronic commerce and related financial services industries could increase our costs and limit our business opportunities.. We believe that we are not required to be licensed by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Reserve Board, or other federal or state agencies that regulate or monitor banks or other types of providers of electronic commerce services.  It is possible that a federal or state agency will attempt to regulate providers of electronic commerce services, which could impede our ability to do business in the regulator's jurisdiction.  Our business has also been affected by anti-terrorism legislation, such as the USA PATRIOT Act. Banking-related provisions of the USA PATRIOT Act have been implemented as additions to the banking rules regarding monetary instrument sales record keeping requirements and tracking of cash movements.  In our capacity as an agent for Sunrise Banks, N.A., formerly known as University National Bank, and Metropolitan Commercial Bank, the issuing banks for our prepaid card programs and in our capacity as an agent for Fifth Third Bank, and NACB, the sponsoring banks for our ACH services, we are required to comply with these rules.  We are also required to implement a Customer Identification Program and establish an Anti-Money Laundering program and to report any suspected money laundering to the appropriate agencies.  Our compliance with such regulations increases our responsibilities and costs associated with the administration of our debit card programs.  We are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to commercial transactions, such as the Uniform Commercial Code, and may be subject to the electronic funds transfer rules embodied in Regulation E, promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board.  Given the expansion of the electronic commerce market, the Federal Reserve Board might revise Regulation E or adopt new rules for electronic funds transfer affecting users other than consumers.  Because of growth in the electronic commerce market, Congress has held hearings on whether to regulate providers of services and transactions in the electronic commerce market. It is possible that Congress or individual states could enact laws regulating the electronic commerce market.  If enacted, such laws, rules and regulations could be imposed on our business and industry and could increase our costs or limit our business opportunities.. If we cannot compete successfully in our industry, we could lose market share and our costs could increase.. Portions of the electronic commerce market are becoming increasingly competitive.  We expect to face growing competition in all areas of the electronic payment processing market.  New companies could emerge and compete for merchants of all sizes.  We expect competition to increase from both established and emerging companies and that such increased competition could lower our market share and increase our costs.  Moreover, our current and potential competitors, many of whom have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than us, may respond more quickly than us to new or emerging technologies or could expand to compete directly against us in any or all of our target markets.  Accordingly, it is possible that current or potential competitors could rapidly acquire market share.  We may not be able to compete against current or future competitors successfully. Additionally, competitive pressures may increase our costs, which could lower our earnings, if any.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK. Our stock price is volatile and you may not be able to sell your shares at a price higher than what you paid.. The market for our common stock is highly volatile.  In 2017, our stock price fluctuated between $1.17 and $4.10.  The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other things, quarterly variations in operating and financial results, announcements of technological innovations or new products by our competitors or us, changes in prices of our products and services or our competitors' products and services, changes in product mix, or changes in our revenue and revenue growth rates.. \"Penny stock\" rules may make buying or selling our securities difficult which may make our stock less liquid and make it harder for investors to buy and sell our shares.. Trading in our securities is subject to the SEC's \"penny stock\" rules and it is anticipated that trading in our securities will continue to be subject to the penny stock rules for the foreseeable future.  The SEC has adopted regulations that generally define a penny stock to be any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions.  These rules require that any broker-dealer who recommends our securities to persons other than prior customers and accredited investors must,. prior to the sale, make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to execute the transaction.  Unless an exception is available, the regulations require the delivery, prior to any transaction involving a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated with trading in the penny stock market.  In addition, broker-dealers must disclose commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities they offer.  The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by these requirements may discourage broker-dealers from recommending transactions in our securities, which could severely limit the liquidity of our securities and consequently adversely affect the market price for our securities."
