[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. We generate most of our revenues from a limited number of customers, and a large percentage of our revenues from a single customer, so decreased business with, or the loss of, any one of these customers, or pricing pressure, or customer consolidation could significantly reduce our revenue or margins, negatively impacting results of operations, and require us to accept lower margin business on future nodes.. Historically, we have had a small number of large customers for our core Design-to-silicon-yield solutions and that contribute significant Gainshare performance incentives revenue. In the year ended December 31, 2017, one customer, GlobalFoundries, accounted for 40% of our revenues. We could lose a customer due to its decision not to engage us on future process nodes, its decision to reduce the scope of our services or technology used, which is permitted in certain of our contracts if the customer company's business materially adversely changes, its decision not to develop its own future process node, or as a result of industry factors, including but not limited to consolidation. Further, new business may be delayed if a key customer uses its leverage to push for terms that are worse for us and we nonetheless continue to negotiate for better terms, in which case Solutions revenue in any particular quarter or year may fail to meet expectations. Also, the loss of any of these customers or the failure to secure new contracts with these customers could further increase our reliance on our remaining customers. For example, in the first quarter of 2015, we recognized significant one-time revenue associated with closing two contracts with one of our then-largest customers that we were unable to close on the expected schedule. Further, if any of our key customers default, declare bankruptcy or otherwise delay or fail to pay amounts owed, or we otherwise have a dispute with any of these customers, our results of operations would be negatively affected in the short term and possibly the long term. These customers may seek to renegotiate pre-existing contractual commitments due to adverse changes in their own businesses or, in some cases, take advantage of contractual provisions that permit the suspension of contracted work for some period if their business experiences a financial hardship, which would harm our operating results. In particular, these events could cause significant fluctuations in results of operations because our expenses are fixed in the short term and it takes us a long time to replace customers or reassign resources.. If we are unable to complete development of our e-beam measurement tool for in-line wafer inspection on schedule or at all, or successfully commercialize our Design-for-Inspection (DFI) solution, our future market opportunity and revenues will suffer and our costs may not be recouped.. Certain use cases of our DFI solution remain to be proven, and the in-line version is still in development. To date, we have invested significantly in the design and development of our DFI eProbe tool and related intellectual property. If existing foundry customers fail to renew or expand the number or use of the systems they are using, or new foundry customers fail to adopt our DFI solution, and our results may suffer. Also, if the results of our DFI solution are not as we expect, we may not be able to successfully commercialize these technologies on schedule, or at all, and we may miss the market opportunity and not recoup our investment. Further, our DFI tool may cause unexpected damage to wafers or delays processing wafers, which we could be liable for, or which may make customers unwilling to use it. If we are not able to create significant interest and show reliable and useful results, our investment may not be recouped and our future results may suffer.. Decreases in wafer volumes at our customers’ manufacturing sites or the volume of ICs that some of our customers are able to sell to their customers would cause our Gainshare performance incentives revenue to suffer.. Our Gainshare performance incentives revenue is largely determined by wafer volumes at manufacturing sites covered by our contracts and, in some cases, the volume of an IC product that our customer is able to sell to its customers. Both of these factors are outside of our control. Further, some of our manufacturing customers’ business is largely dependent on customers that use our manufacturing customer as a second or third source. If those customers consolidate and/or otherwise move the orders to manufacturing facilities not covered by our contracts, or suspend their manufacturing at covered facilities for any reason, including consolidation, our Gainshare revenue will decrease. Reduced demand for semiconductor products decreases the volume of wafers and, in some cases, products our customers are able to sell, which would also directly decrease our Gainshare revenue. For example, 28nm volumes were lower in 2017 than expected. Also, our customers may unilaterally decide to implement changes to their manufacturing processes during the period that is covered by Gainshare, which could negatively affect yield results and our revenue. Since we currently work on a small number of large projects at a specified manufacturing sites and, in some cases, on specific IC products, our results of operations are adversely affected by negative changes at those sites or in those products. For example, if wafer orders from sites covered by our contracts are not secured by our customers, if an end product does not achieve commercial viability, if a process line or, in some cases, a specific product, do not achieve significant increases in yield or sustain significant volume manufacturing during the time we receive Gainshare, revenues associated with such volumes or products would be negatively impacted. This could significantly reduce our revenue and results of operations below expectations. In addition, if we work with two directly competitive manufacturing facilities or products, volume in one may offset volume, and thus any of our related Gainshare, in the other facility or product.. 13. Table of Contents. If semiconductor designers and manufacturers do not continue to adopt, or they significantly delay adoption of, our products and solutions, our revenues will suffer.. If semiconductor designers and manufacturers do not continue to adopt our products and solutions, both as currently comprised and as we may offer them in the future, our revenues will decline. We may not be successful if we do not continue to enter into long-term agreements with existing customers and new customers that cover a larger number of IC products, processes, or manufacturing facilities. If we do not continue to develop customer relationships with companies that are integrated device manufacturers (or IDMs), fabless semiconductor companies, foundries, and out-sourced assembly and test companies (or OSATs), as well as system houses, the market acceptance of our solutions will suffer. Factors that may limit adoption of our products and solutions by semiconductor companies include:. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour existing and potential customers’ delay in their adoption of the current or next process technology including derivatives of older nodes;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour inability to keep pace with the rapidly evolving technologies and equipment used in the semiconductor design and manufacturing processes;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour inability to convince foundry customer to adopt DFI solution or fabless customers to include our on-chip measurement devices in tape outs; \t\t\t \t\t  \t\t\t \t\t\t  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\t  \t\t\t \t\t  \t\t\t \t\t\t• \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour customers’ failure to achieve satisfactory results using our Design-to-silicon-yield solutions;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe lack of proven results with new technologies and solutions that we may develop; and. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour inability to develop, market, or sell effective solutions that are outside of our traditional logic focus of manufacturing process solutions, for example 3-D memory processes or our Design-for-Inspection (DFI) IP and hardware technology.. The semiconductor market is volatile and unpredictable and is exacerbated by economic uncertainty, which limits our ability to forecast our business and could negatively impact our results of operations.. The semiconductor industry historically has been volatile with up cycles and down cycles, due to sudden changes in customers’ manufacturing capacity requirements and spending, which depend in part on capacity utilization, demand for customers’ IC products by consumers, inventory levels relative to demand, and access to affordable capital. As a result of the various factors that affect this volatility, the timing and length of any cycles can be difficult to predict. Economic uncertainty exacerbates negative trends in consumer spending and can cause some of our customers to delay or refrain altogether from entering into new engagements, licensing new or additional software products, or renewing maintenance and support for existing licensed software. Difficulties in obtaining capital and deteriorating market conditions may also lead to the inability of some customers to obtain affordable financing for other purchases, which could tie up funds otherwise budgeted for purchases of our solutions and technologies. For example, the timing of the build-out of the semiconductor market in China depends significantly on governmental funding on both local and national levels and a delay in this funding could negatively affect our revenues. Any of these events could negatively affect our revenues and make it challenging for us to forecast our operating results, make business decisions, and identify the risks that may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Customers with liquidity issues may also lead to additional bad debt expense.. 14. Table of Contents. Our solution implementations or system installation/configurations may take longer than budgeted, which could slow our revenue recognition and may also result in a loss contract, which would negatively affect our operating results.. Our solution implementations require a team of engineers to collaborate with our customers to address complex yield loss issues by using our software and other technologies, and the installation and configuration of our software into our customers’ fabrication and test facilities requires experienced engineers working with our customers on active foundry and test equipment. We must estimate the amount of resources needed to complete both of these types of services in order to estimate when the engineers will be able to commence the next engagement. In addition, our accounting for contracts with such services, which generate fixed fees, sometimes require adjustments to profit (loss) based on revised estimates during the performance of the contract. These adjustments may have a material effect on our results of operations in the period in which they are made. The estimates giving rise to these risks, which are inherent in fixed-price contracts, include the forecasting of costs and schedules, and contract revenues related to contract performance.. Our sales cycle is lengthy and customers may delay entering into contracts or decide not to adopt our products or solutions after we have performed services or provided evaluation licenses, which could result in delays in recognizing revenue and negatively impact our results of operations in a quarter or result in lower revenue than we expected if a contract is not consummated at all.. On-going negotiations and evaluation projects for new products, with new customers or in new markets may not result in significant revenues for us if we are unable to close new engagements on terms favorable to us, in a timely manner, or at all. Unexpected delays in our sales cycle could cause our revenues to fall short of expectations. Further, the timing and length of negotiations required to enter into agreements with our customers and the ultimate enforcement of complex negotiated contractual provisions as we intended is difficult to predict. If we do not successfully negotiate certain key complex contractual provisions or there are disputes regarding such provisions and they are not enforced as we intended, the future available market for our solutions could decrease and our revenues and results of operations would suffer. Further, our customers sometimes delay starting negotiations until they begin developing a new process, need to insert a new product, or experience specific yield issues. This means that on occasion we have, and may continue to provide technology and services under preliminary documentation before executing the final contract. In these cases, we could not recognize revenue and would defer associated costs until execution of the final contract, which, if significant, could negatively impact our results of operations in the periods before we execute the final contract. Further, if we were to incur significant effort and then fail to enter into a final contract, we would have to write-off such deferred costs in the period in which the negotiations ended, which would decrease our gross margin and could result in significant operating losses.. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, customers or potential competitors may be able to use our technologies to develop their own solutions which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our revenue, or increase our costs.. Our success depends largely on the proprietary nature of our technologies. Our contractual, patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret protection may not be effective against any particular threat or in any particular location. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents, and even if issued, they may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technologies. Litigation may be necessary from time to time to enforce our IP rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. As a result of any such litigation, we could lose our proprietary rights and incur substantial unexpected operating costs. Litigation could also divert our resources, including our managerial and engineering resources. If we are unable to exclude others from using our proprietary technologies and methods without compensation to us, through litigation or otherwise, it could impede our ability to grow our business and our revenues may suffer.. We face operational and financial risks associated with international operations that could negatively impact our revenue.. We derive over half of our revenue from sales outside of the United States, and we expect our international business to continue to grow, in particular in China. We have in the past expanded and reorganized, at different times, our non-U.S. operations and may in the future continue such expansion or reorganization by establishing or restructuring international subsidiaries, offices, or contractor relationships in locations, if and when, deemed appropriate by our management. Thus, the success of our business is subject to risks inherent in doing business internationally, including in particular:. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour growth in China is dependent upon continued investments in the semiconductor industry by both private and public entities within China. Should circumstances change such that the level of investments are substantially reduced, our future growth potential may be limited; \t\t\t \t\t  \t\t\t \t\t\t  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\t  \t\t\t \t\t  \t\t\t \t\t\t• \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsome of our key engineers and other personnel are foreign nationals and they may not be permitted access to certain technical information under U.S. export laws or by certain of our customers and may have difficulty gaining access to the United States and other countries in which our customers or our offices may be located and it may be difficult for us to recruit and retain qualified technical and managerial employees in foreign offices;. 15. Table of Contents. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tineffective or inadequate protection or enforcement of our intellectual property in foreign jurisdictions; \t\t\t \t\t  \t\t\t \t\t\t   \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\t   \t\t\t \t\t  \t\t\t \t\t\t• \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgreater difficulty in collecting account receivables resulting in longer collection periods;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlanguage and other cultural differences may inhibit our sales and marketing efforts and create internal communication problems among our U.S. and foreign teams, increasing the difficulty of managing multiple, remote locations performing various development, quality assurance, and yield ramp analysis projects;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcompliance with, inconsistencies among, and unexpected changes in, a wide variety of foreign laws and regulatory environments with which we are not familiar, including, among other issues, with respect to employees, personal data, tax, protection of our IP, and a wide variety of operational regulations and trade and export controls under domestic, foreign, and international law;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcurrency risk due to the fact that certain of our payables and for our international offices are denominated in the foreign currency, including the Euro, Yen, and RMB, while virtually all of our revenues is denominated in U.S. dollars, or in the event a larger portion of our revenues becomes denominated in foreign currencies, we would be subject to a potentially significant exchange rate risk;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tquarantine, private travel limitation, or business disruption in regions affecting our operations, stemming from actual, imminent or perceived outbreak of human pandemic or contagious disease; or. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\teconomic or political instability, including but not limited to armed conflict, terrorism, interference with information or communication of networks or systems, and the resulting disruption to economic activity and business operations;. Further, our employees and contractors include professionals located in various international locations, including Shanghai, China, who provide primarily CV test chip-related services, and Ramallah, Palestine, who provide software-related development, quality assurance, maintenance, and other technical support services for certain of our software products. Political changes, including policies regarding export control, that affect these or other international operations could disrupt or limit the work our employees and contractors are able to perform, and thus negatively affect the range of services we are able to provide our customers or our cost for such services.. 10. Inadvertent disclosure of our customers’ confidential information or our failure to comply with our client’s security rules for on-site access could result in costly litigation, cause us to lose existing and potential customers, or negatively impact on-going business with existing customers.. Our customers consider their product yield information and other confidential information, which we must gather in the course of our engagement with the customer, to be extremely competitively sensitive. Many of our clients have strict security rules for on-site access to their confidential information. If we inadvertently disclosed or were required to disclose this information, or we fail to adequately comply with customers’ security protocols for accessing confidential information, we would likely lose existing and potential customers, could be subject to costly litigation, or our on-going business could be negatively impacted. In addition, to avoid potential disclosure of confidential information to competitors, some of our customers may, in the future, ask us not to work with key products or processes, which could limit our revenue opportunities.. Our ability to sell our products may depend on the quality of our support and services offerings, including delivering of software as a service (SaaS), and our failure to offer high-quality support and services could negatively affect our sales and results of operations.. Once our software products are integrated within our customers’ hardware and software systems, our customers may depend on our support organization to resolve any issues relating to our products. Further, in connection with delivering our software as a service, which requires us to maintain adequate server hardware and internet infrastructure, including system redundancies, we will need to meet contractual uptime obligations A high level of system and support is critical for the successful marketing and sale of our products. If we do not effectively provide subscription access to our SaaS customers, assist our customers in deploying our products, succeed in helping our customers quickly resolve post-deployment issues, and provide effective ongoing support, our ability to sell our software products to existing customers may be negatively affected, our results of operations could be negatively impacted if we must provide credits for system downtime, and our reputation with potential customers could be harmed. If our software customers have a poor perception of our support and services offerings, they may choose not to purchase via SaaS, renew software support and maintenance or term-based licenses when the current period expires. In addition, due to our international operations, our system and support organization faces challenges associated with delivering support, hours that support is available, training, and documentation where the user’s native language may not be English. If we fail to maintain high-quality support and services, our customers may choose our competitors’ products instead of ours in the future, which would negatively affect our revenues and results of operations.. 16. Table of Contents. Defects in our proprietary technologies, hardware and software tools, and failure to effectively remedy any such defects could decrease our revenue and our competitive market share.. If the software, hardware, or proprietary technologies we provide to a customer contain defects that negatively impact customers' ability to use our solutions or software, increase our customers’ cost of goods sold and time-to-market or damage our customers’ property, these defects could significantly decrease the market acceptance of our solutions or results in warranty or other claims. We must adequately train our new personnel, especially our client service and technical support personnel, to effectively and accurately, respond to and support our customers. If we fail to do this, it could lead to dissatisfaction among our customers, which could slow our growth. Further, the cost of support resources required to remedy any defects in our technologies, hardware, or software tools could exceed our expectations. Any actual or perceived defects with our software, hardware, or proprietary technologies may also hinder our ability to attract or retain industry partners or customers, leading to a decrease in our revenue. These defects are frequently found during the period following introduction of new software, hardware, or proprietary technologies or enhancements to existing software, hardware, or proprietary technologies. Our software, hardware, and proprietary technologies may contain errors not discovered until after customer implementation of the silicon design and manufacturing process recommended by us. If our software, hardware, or proprietary technologies contain errors or defects, it could require us to expend significant resources to remedy these problems or defend claims, which could reduce margins and result in the diversion of technical and other resources from our other customer implementations and development efforts.. If we do not effectively manage, support, and safeguard our worldwide information systems, and integrate recent and planned growth, our business strategy may fail.. We have experienced in the past, and may experience in the future, interruptions in our information systems on which our global operations depend. Further, we may face attempts by others to gain unauthorized access through the Internet to our information technology systems whether hosted by us or service providers, to intentionally hack, interfere with, or cause physical or digital damage to or failure of such systems (such as significant viruses or worms), which attempts we or they may be unable to prevent. We or our service providers could be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects until after it is too late to prevent it and the damage it may cause. The theft, unauthorized use, or a cybersecurity attack that results in the publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information as a result of such an incident could negatively affect our competitive position, the value of our investment in product or research and development, and third parties might assert against us or our customers claims related to resulting losses of confidential or proprietary information or end-user data and/or system reliability. In any such event, our business could be subject to significant disruption, and we could suffer monetary and other losses, including reputational harm, which costs we may not be able to recover from our service providers. In addition, we must frequently expand our internal information system to meet increasing demand in storage, computing and communication, which may result in increased costs. Our internal information system is expensive to expand and must be highly secure due to the sensitive nature of our customers’ information that we transmit. Building and managing the support necessary for our growth places significant demands on our management and resources. These demands may divert these resources from the continued growth of our business and implementation of our business strategy.. If we are not able to retain, attract, motivate, and strategically locate talented employees, including some key executives, our business may suffer.. Our success and competitiveness depend on our ability to retain, attract, motivate, and strategically locate in our offices around the globe, talented employees, including some of our key executives. Achieving this objective may be difficult due to many factors, including fluctuations in global economic and industry conditions, changes in our management or leadership, the hiring practices at our competitors or customers, cost reduction activities, and the effectiveness of our compensation programs, including equity-based programs. Further, we have had, and expect to continue to have, difficulty in obtaining visas permitting entry for some of our employees that are foreign nationals into the United States, and delays in obtaining visas permitting entry into other key countries, for several of our key personnel, which disrupts our ability to strategically locate our personnel. In recent years, the United State has increased the level of Security in granting H-1(b), L-1 and other business visas. The Trump administration has indicated that immigration reform is a priority. If we lose the services of certain of our key executives or a significant number of our engineers, it could disrupt our ability to implement our business strategy. If we do not successfully attract, retain, and motivate key employees, including key executives, we may be unable to realize our business objectives and our operating results may suffer.. 17. Table of Contents. Our stock price has been volatile in the past, and our earnings per share and other operating results may vary quarter to quarter, which could result in not meeting investors’ expectations and cause our stock price to drop.. Our stock price has fluctuated widely during the few years, from a low closing price of $8.99 per share in January 2016 to a high closing price of $24.16 per share in December 2016. A factor in the volatility may be that our historical quarterly operating results have fluctuated. Our future quarterly operating results will likely fluctuate from time to time and may not meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors in some future period, which could cause our stock price to decrease again. A significant reduction in our stock price negatively impacts our ability to raise equity capital in the public markets and increases the cost to us, as measured by dilution to our existing shareholders, of equity financing. In addition, the reduced stock price also increases the cost to us, in terms of dilution, of using our equity for employee compensation or for acquisitions of other businesses. A greatly reduced stock price could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by employees, the loss of institutional investor interest, a hostile take-over bid, and fewer business development opportunities. Also, significant volatility in the stock price could be followed by a securities class action lawsuit, which could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources.. Competition in the market for yield improvement solutions and increased integration between IC design and manufacturing may intensify in the future, which could impede our ability to grow or execute our strategy.. Competition in our market may intensify in the future, which could slow our ability to grow or execute our strategy and could lead to increased pricing pressure, negatively impacting our revenues. Our current and potential customers may choose to develop their own solutions internally, particularly if we are slow in deploying our solutions or improving them to meet market needs. These and other competitors may be able to operate with a lower cost structure than our engineering organization, which would give any such competitor’s products a competitive advantage over our solutions. We currently face indirect competition from the internal groups at IC companies and some direct competition from providers of (i) yield management and/or prediction systems, such as KLA-Tencor, Mentor Graphics, Rudolph Technologies, Inc. (“Rudolph”), Synopsys, Inc. (“Synopsys”), and Qualtera, (ii) semiconductor manufacturing software, such as Applied Materials, Inc., BISTel Inc., Invantest, Inc., MKS Instruments, Inc., Optimal+, Rudolph, Siemens AG (through its acquisition of Mentor Graphics, which previously acquired Galaxy Semiconductor Solutions), and Trancom Technology, Inc. and, (iii) inline inspection, metrology and electrical test equipment providers, such as Applied Materials, Inc., Hermes Microvision, Inc., and Keysight Technologies, Inc. Further, ARM Ltd. and Synopsys provide standard cells in the physical IP space and Tela Innovations, Inc. provides software for standard cell synthesis, each of which could compete with our Template\231 technology solution. Further, we may compete with the products or offerings of these named companies or additional companies if we expand our offerings through acquisition or development. Further, electronic design automation suppliers provide alternative DFM solutions that may compete for the same budgetary funds. There may be other providers of commercial solutions for systematic IC yield and performance enhancement of which we are not aware. Further, some providers of yield management software or inspection equipment may seek to broaden their product offerings and compete with us. In addition, we believe that the demand for solutions that address the need for better integration between the silicon design and manufacturing processes may encourage direct competitors to enter into our market. For example, large integrated organizations, such as IDMs, electronic design automation software providers, IC design service companies or semiconductor equipment vendors, may expand their product offerings or decide to spin-off a business unit to compete with us. Other potential competitors include fabrication facilities that may decide to offer solutions competitive with ours as part of their value proposition to their customers. If these potential competitors change the pricing environment or are able to attract industry partners or customers faster than we can, we may not be able to grow and execute our strategy as quickly or at all.. Measurement of our Gainshare performance incentives and other variable consideration requires data collection and customers’ use of estimates in some cases, and is subject to customer agreement and later offset if actual data differ from customers’ estimates, which can result in uncertainty and cause quarterly results to fluctuate.. We can only recognize revenue based on Gainshare performance incentives once we have reached agreement with our customers on their level of yield performance improvements and quarterly agreements are sometimes based on estimates of volume results each quarter. Measuring the amount of yield improvement is inherently complicated and dependent on our customers’ internal processes, thus, there may be uncertainty as to some components of measurement. Also, some variable considerations can be highly susceptible to delays in the customer measurement of key factors such as reporting volumes results and level of yield. Therefore, we may have to estimate revenue related to contingent variable fees or usage-based or sales-based royalties prior to the receipt of performance reports, such as Gainshare acknowledgements, or other related information from customers. These estimates are subject judgment to evaluate whether it is probable that a significant revenue reversal will not occur in future periods, which could result in our recognition of less revenue than expected in any particular period and later offset when actual results become available.. 18. Table of Contents. Changes in the structure of our customer contracts, including the mix between fixed and variable revenue and the inclusion of acceptance criteria can adversely affect the amount and timing of our total revenues.. Our long-term success is largely dependent upon our ability to structure our future customer contracts in line with market condition. In addition, if the mix shifts toward more Gainshare, we may increase the variability or timing of recognition of our revenue, and therefore increase the risk that our total future revenues will be lower than expected and fluctuate significantly from period to period. Further, if we agree to contractual acceptance criteria in contracts and fail to meet them, the total revenues we receive under a contract could be delayed or decline.. We have experienced losses in the past and we may incur losses again in the future.. We have experienced losses in the past and we incur losses again in the future if we are not able to adequately control our costs or if total revenues fail to meet expectations. In addition, virtually all of our quarterly operating expenses are fixed, so any shortfall in anticipated quarterly revenue could significantly reduce our operating results below expectations. Our accumulated deficit was $27.1 million as of December 31, 2017. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses in connection with:. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfunding for research and development;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\texpansion of our solution implementation teams;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trestructuring costs related to our cost control and management efforts;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\texpansion of our sales and marketing efforts; and \t\t\t \t\t  \t\t\t  \t\t\t  \t\t  \t\t\t \t\t\t• \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadditional non-cash charges relating to amortization and stock-based compensation.. Further, if the availability of our new office space is not ready on our expected schedule, we may incur additional costs related to hold-over rates at the current location of our headquarters and other expenses. Our technologies could infringe the intellectual property rights of others, causing costly litigation and the loss of significant rights.. Significant litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the semiconductor industry. It is possible that a third party may claim that our technologies infringe their intellectual property rights or misappropriate their trade secrets. Any claim, even if without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. A successful claim of infringement against us in connection with the use of our technologies could adversely affect our business.. Changes in effective tax rates could positively affect our earnings, thereby raising investors’ expectations, while the final tax rates that are determined could be significantly higher, thereby lowering our earnings and causing us to miss investors’ expectations, which could cause our stock price to drop, and we may not be able to use tax credits before their expiration if we fail to have sufficient future income.. We conduct our business globally and, as a result, are subject to taxation in the United States and foreign countries. Our future tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, including recent changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws and changes in accounting policies. Our filings are subject to reviews or audit by the Internal Revenue Service and state, local and foreign taxing authorities. We cannot be sure that any final determination in an audit would not be materially different than the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. If additional taxes are assessed as a result of an audit, there could be a significant negative effect on our income tax provision and our operating results in the period or periods for which that determination is made. Any changes in our geographical earnings mix in various tax jurisdictions, including those resulting from transfer pricing adjustments, could materially increase our effective tax rate. Furthermore, we maintain deferred tax assets related to federal, foreign and certain state tax credits. Our ability to use these credits prior to their expiration is dependent upon having sufficient future income.. Uncertainties in the interpretation and application of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate.. The 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act) was enacted on December 22, 2017, and significantly changes how the U.S. imposes income tax on multinational corporations. The U.S. Department of Treasury has broad authority to issue regulations and interpretative guidance that may significantly impact how we will apply the law and affect our results of operations in the period issued.. The Tax Act requires complex computations not previously provided in U.S. tax law. As such, the application of accounting guidance for such items is currently uncertain. Further, compliance with the Tax Act and the accounting for such provisions require accumulation of information not previously required or regularly produced. As a result, we have provided a provisional estimate on the effect of the Tax Act in our financial statements. As additional regulatory guidance is issued by the applicable taxing authorities, accounting treatment is clarified, we perform additional analysis on the application of the law, and we refine estimates in calculating the impact, our final analysis, which will be recorded in the period completed, may be different from our current provisional amounts, which could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate.. 19. Table of Contents"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
