[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors.. We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks. The following discussion highlights some of these risks and others are discussed elsewhere in this report. These and other risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects, operating results or cash flows. The following risk factors are not an exhaustive list of the risks associated with our business. New factors may emerge or changes to these risks could occur that could materially affect our business.. Risks Associated with Our Emergence from the Chapter 11 Cases. As a result of our emergence from our Chapter 11 Cases, our historical financial information is not indicative of our future financial performance.. Our capital structure was significantly altered through the implementation of the Plan. As a result, we are subject to the fresh start reporting rules required under the Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification Topic 852, Reorganizations. Under applicable fresh start reporting rules, our assets and liabilities were adjusted to fair values and our accumulated deficit was restated to zero. Accordingly, our consolidated financial condition and results of operations from and after the Effective Date are not comparable to the financial condition or results of operations reflected in our consolidated historical financial statements.. Risks Associated with Our Operations. Our profitability depends upon the prices we receive for our coal.. We operate in a competitive and highly regulated industry that has previously experienced strong headwinds. In 2017, the coal industry saw sharp upturns in seaborne metallurgical and thermal coal pricing primarily due to restrictive production policies in China. However, these recent industry events do not demonstrate that these prices will be sustainable in the future and the vast majority of third-party analysts project that prices are likely to decline. If coal prices decrease or return to depressed levels, our operating results and profitability and value of our coal reserves could be materially and adversely affected.. Coal prices are dependent upon factors beyond our control, including:. • the demand for electricity;. • the strength of the global economy;. • the relative price of natural gas and other energy sources used to generate electricity;. • the demand for electricity and capacity utilization of electricity generating units (whether coal or non-coal);. • the demand for steel, which may lead to price fluctuations in the monthly and quarterly repricing of our metallurgical coal contracts;. • the global supply and production costs of thermal and metallurgical coal;. • changes in the fuel consumption and dispatch patterns of electric power generators;. • weather patterns and natural disasters;. • competition within our industry and the availability, quality and price of alternative fuels, including natural gas, fuel oil, nuclear, hydroelectric, wind, biomass and solar power;. • the proximity, capacity and cost of transportation and terminal facilities;. • coal and natural gas industry output and capacity;. • governmental regulations and taxes, including those establishing air emission standards for coal-fueled power plants or mandating or subsidizing increased use of electricity from renewable energy sources;. • regulatory, administrative and judicial decisions, including those affecting future mining permits and leases; and. • technological developments, including those related to alternative energy sources, those intended to convert coal-to-liquids or gas and those aimed at capturing, using and storing carbon dioxide.. In the U.S., our strategy is to selectively renew, or enter into new, long-term supply agreements when we can do so at prices we believe are favorable. In Australia we negotiate pricing for metallurgical coal contracts on a quarterly, spot or index basis and seaborne thermal coal contracts on an annual, spot or index basis.. Peabody Energy Corporation 2017 Form 10-K  24. Table of Contents. Thermal coal accounted for the majority of our coal sales during 2016 and 2017. The vast majority of our sales of thermal coal were to electric power generators. The demand for coal consumed for electric power generation is affected by many of the factors described above, but primarily by (i) the overall demand for electricity; (ii) the availability, quality and price of competing fuels, such as natural gas, nuclear fuel, oil and alternative energy sources; (iii) utilization of all electricity generating units (whether using coal or not), including the relative cost of producing electricity from all fuels, including coal; (iv) increasingly stringent environmental and other governmental regulations; and (v) the coal inventories of utilities. Gas-fueled generation has displaced and is expected to continue to displace coal-fueled generation, particularly from older, less efficient coal-powered generators. Many of the new power plants in the U.S. may be fueled by natural gas because gas-fired plants are viewed as cheaper to construct and permits to construct these plants are easier to obtain as natural gas is seen as having a lower environmental impact than coal-fueled generators. Increasingly stringent regulations along with flat electricity demand have also reduced the number of new power plants being built. These trends have reduced demand for our coal and the related prices. Any further reduction in the amount of coal consumed by electric power generators could reduce the volume and price of coal that we mine and sell.. Lower demand for metallurgical coal by steel producers would reduce our revenues and could further reduce the price of our metallurgical coal. We produce metallurgical coal that is used in the global steel industry. Metallurgical coal accounted for approximately 28% and 23% of our coal sales revenue in 2017 and 2016, respectively. Deteriorating conditions in the steel industry, including the demand for steel, could reduce the demand for our metallurgical coal. Lower demand for metallurgical coal in international markets would reduce the amount of metallurgical coal that we sell and the prices that we receive for it, thereby reducing our revenues and adversely impacting our earnings and the value of our coal reserves.. Additionally, we compete with numerous other domestic and foreign coal producers for domestic and international sales. This competition affects domestic and foreign coal prices and our ability to attract and retain customers. The balance between coal demand and supply within the coal industry, factoring in demand and supply of closely related and competing segments such as natural gas, both domestically and internationally, could materially reduce coal prices and therefore materially reduce our revenues and profitability. We compete with producers of other low cost fuels used for electricity generation, such as natural gas and renewables. Declines in the price of natural gas, or continued low natural gas prices, could cause demand for coal to decrease and adversely affect the price of coal. Sustained periods of low natural gas prices or other fuels may also cause utilities to phase out or close existing coal-fired power plants or reduce construction of new coal-fired power plants, which could have a material adverse effect on demand and prices for our coal, thereby reducing our revenues and materially and adversely affecting our business and results of operations.. If a substantial number of our long-term coal supply agreements terminate, our revenues and operating profits could suffer if we are unable to find alternate buyers willing to purchase our coal on comparable terms to those in our contracts.. Most of our sales are made under coal supply agreements, which are important to the stability and profitability of our operations. The execution of a satisfactory coal supply agreement is frequently the basis on which we undertake the development of coal reserves required to be supplied under the contract, particularly in the U.S.. Many of our coal supply agreements contain provisions that permit the parties to adjust the contract price upward or downward at specified times. We may adjust these contract prices based on inflation or deflation and/or changes in the factors affecting the cost of producing coal, such as taxes, fees, royalties and changes in the laws regulating the mining, production, sale or use of coal. In a limited number of contracts, failure of the parties to agree on a price under those provisions may allow either party to terminate the contract. We sometimes experience a reduction in coal prices in new long-term coal supply agreements replacing some of our expiring contracts. Coal supply agreements also typically contain force majeure provisions allowing temporary suspension of performance by us or the customer during the duration of specified events beyond the control of the affected party. Most of our coal supply agreements contain provisions requiring us to deliver coal meeting quality thresholds for certain characteristics such as Btu, sulfur content, ash content, grindability and ash fusion temperature. Failure to meet these specifications could result in economic penalties, including price adjustments, the rejection of deliveries or termination of the contracts. Moreover, some of these agreements allow our customers to terminate their contracts in the event of changes in regulations affecting our industry that restrict the use or type of coal permissible at the customer's plant or increase the price of coal beyond specified limits.. The operating profits we realize from coal sold under supply agreements depend on a variety of factors. In addition, price adjustment and other provisions may increase our exposure to short-term coal price volatility provided by those contracts. If a substantial portion of our coal supply agreements were modified or terminated, we could be materially adversely affected to the extent that we are unable to find alternate buyers for our coal at the same level of profitability. Prices for coal vary by mining region and country. As a result, we cannot predict the future strength of the coal industry overall or by mining region and cannot provide assurance that we will be able to replace existing long-term coal supply agreements at the same prices or with similar profit margins when they expire.. Peabody Energy Corporation 2017 Form 10-K  25. Table of Contents. The loss of, or significant reduction in, purchases by our largest customers could adversely affect our revenues.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we derived 27% of our total revenues from our five largest customers, similar to the prior year. Those five customers were supplied primarily from 21 coal supply agreements (excluding trading transactions) expiring at various times from 2018 to 2025. On an ongoing basis, we discuss the extension of existing agreements or entering into new long-term agreements with various customers, but these negotiations may not be successful and these customers may not continue to purchase coal from us under long-term supply agreements. If a number of these customers significantly reduce their purchases of coal from us, or if we are unable to sell coal to them on terms as favorable to us as the terms under our current agreements, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer materially. In addition, our revenue could be adversely affected by a decline in customer purchases (including contractually obligated purchases) due to lack of demand and oversupply, cost of competing fuels and environmental and other governmental regulations.. One of our five largest customers, the Navajo Generating Station (NGS) is served by a single Peabody mine, included in our Western U.S. Mining operations, that has no other customers. Given the mine's location, it is currently unable to economically market its coal to other utility customers. This mine has a contract to supply coal to NGS through December 2019. We estimate that the mine will sell between five million and six million tons in 2018 at Adjusted EBTIDA Margin per Ton in line with those seen in our Western U.S. Mining Segment during the Successor period ended December 31, 2017. NGS is owned by several private companies and one governmental entity. The non-governmental owners of the customer recently completed an evaluation of the plant and determined to continue operating the plant through December 2019, subject to certain conditions.  Those non-governmental owners of the plant then issued a statement that they do not currently intend to be the operators of the plant beyond December 2019.. We have engaged an investment banking firm to lead an ownership transition process for the plant. On October 2, 2017, we confirmed that a number of potential investors had expressed interest in pursuing an ownership position in NGS. Additionally, we are currently discussing options to improve the plant's economics. If the customer closes the plant, our Western U.S. Mining operations revenues, Adjusted EBITDA and cash flows would be materially reduced and our proven and probable reserves would be reduced by approximately 180 million tons. We could also incur accelerated costs related to the mine's closure and may be required to record other charges. Under the terms of the contract, NGS is responsible for reimbursing us for the majority of our post-mining obligations, including reclamation and retiree healthcare costs.. Our trading and hedging activities do not cover certain risks, and may expose us to earnings volatility and other risks.. We historically entered into hedging arrangements designed primarily to manage market price volatility of foreign currency (primarily the Australian dollar), diesel fuel and coal. Currently, we primarily enter into hedging arrangements designed to manage coal industry price through our trading and marketing functions and increases in foreign currency exchange rates; however, we may in the future enter into hedging arrangements to manage the volatility of diesel fuel, or other matters.. Some of these derivative trading instruments require us to post margin based on the value of those instruments and other credit factors. If the fair value of our hedge portfolio moves significantly, or if laws or regulations are passed requiring all hedge arrangements to be exchange-traded or exchange-cleared, we could be required to post additional margin, which could negatively impact our liquidity.. Through our trading and hedging activities, we are also exposed to nonperformance and credit risk with various counterparties, including exchanges and other financial intermediaries. Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements, which could negatively impact our profitability and/or liquidity.. We are currently subject to price risk on diesel fuel utilized in our mining operations. As noted above, we have historically used derivative financial instruments, including forward contracts, swaps and options, designated as cash flow hedges, to manage these risks. We are exposed to the risk of fluctuations in the price of fuel.. Our operating results could be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and financial market conditions.. Our profits are affected, in large part, by industry conditions. Industry conditions are subject to a variety of factors beyond our control. In recent years, the global economic recession and the worldwide financial and credit market disruptions had a negative impact on us and on the coal industry generally. These conditions, among other factors, led to the filing of the Chapter 11 Cases. If any of these conditions return, if coal prices continue at or below levels experienced in 2015 and early 2016 for a prolonged period or if there are further downturns in economic conditions, particularly in developing countries such as China and India, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. While we are focused on cost control, productivity improvements, increased contributions from our higher-margin operations and capital discipline, there can be no assurance that these actions, or any others we may take, will be sufficient in response to challenging economic and financial conditions.. Peabody Energy Corporation 2017 Form 10-K  26. Table of Contents. Our ability to collect payments from our customers could be impaired if their creditworthiness or contractual performance deteriorates.. Our ability to receive payment for coal sold and delivered or for financially settled contracts will depend on the continued creditworthiness and contractual performance of our customers and counterparties. Our customer base has changed with deregulation in the U.S. as utilities have sold their power plants to their non-regulated affiliates or third parties. These new customers may have credit ratings that are below investment grade or are not rated. If deterioration of the creditworthiness of our customers occurs or if they fail to perform the terms of their contracts with us, our accounts receivable securitization program and our business could be adversely affected.. Risks inherent to mining could increase the cost of operating our business.. Our mining operations are subject to conditions that can impact the safety of our workforce, or delay coal deliveries or increase the cost of mining at particular mines for varying lengths of time. These conditions include:. • fires and explosions, including from methane gas or coal dust;. • accidental mine water discharges;. • weather, flooding and natural disasters;. • hazardous geologic events such as roof falls and high wall failures;. • key equipment failures;. • variations in coal seam thickness, coal quality, the amount of rock and soil overlying coal deposits, and geologic conditions impacting mine sequencing;. • unexpected maintenance problems; and. • unforeseen delays in implementation of mining technologies that are new to our operations.. We maintain insurance policies that provide limited coverage for some of these risks, although there can be no assurance that these risks would be fully covered by our insurance policies. Despite our efforts, such conditions could occur and have a substantial impact on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. If transportation for our coal becomes unavailable or uneconomic for our customers, our ability to sell coal could suffer.. Transportation costs represent a significant portion of the total cost of coal use and the cost of transportation is a critical factor in a customer's purchasing decision. Increases in transportation costs and the lack of sufficient rail and port capacity could lead to reduced coal sales.. We depend upon rail, barge, trucking, overland conveyor and ocean-going vessels to deliver coal to our customers. While our coal customers typically arrange and pay for transportation of coal from the mine or port to the point of use, disruption of these transportation services because of weather-related problems, infrastructure damage, strikes, lock-outs, lack of fuel or maintenance items, underperformance of the port and rail infrastructure, congestion and balancing systems which are imposed to manage vessel queuing and demurrage, non-performance or delays by co-shippers, transportation delays or other events could temporarily impair our ability to supply coal to our customers and thus could adversely affect our results of operations.. A decrease in the availability or increase in costs of key supplies, capital equipment or commodities such as diesel fuel, steel, explosives and tires could decrease our anticipated profitability.. Our mining operations require a reliable supply of mining equipment, replacement parts, fuel, explosives, tires, steel-related products (including roof control materials), lubricants and electricity. There has been some consolidation in the supplier base providing mining materials to the coal industry, such as with suppliers of explosives in the U.S. and both surface and underground equipment globally, that has limited the number of sources for these materials. In situations where we have chosen to concentrate a large portion of purchases with one supplier, it has been to take advantage of cost savings from larger volumes of purchases and to ensure security of supply. If the cost of any of these inputs increased significantly, or if a source for these supplies or mining equipment were unavailable to meet our replacement demands, our profitability could be reduced or we could experience a delay or halt in our production.. Peabody Energy Corporation 2017 Form 10-K  27. Table of Contents. Take-or-pay arrangements within the coal industry could unfavorably affect our profitability.. We have substantial take-or-pay arrangements, predominately in Australia, totaling $1.3 billion, with terms ranging up to 25 years, that commit us to pay a minimum amount for rail and port commitments for the delivery of coal even if those commitments go unused. The take-or-pay provisions in these contracts sometimes allow us to apply amounts paid for subsequent deliveries, but these provisions have limitations and we may not be able to apply all such amounts so paid in all cases. Also, we may not be able to utilize the amount of capacity for which we have previously paid. Additionally, coal companies, including us, may continue to deliver coal during times when it might otherwise be optimal to suspend operations because these take-or-pay provisions effectively convert a variable cost of selling coal to a fixed operating cost.. We have contract-based intangible liabilities primarily consisting of unutilized capacity under port and rail take-or-pay contracts. Future unutilized capacity and the amortization periods related to the take-or-pay contract intangible liabilities are based upon estimates of forecasted usage. We anticipate that the amortization of the intangible liability, which is classified as a reduction to \"Operating costs and expenses,\" will extend through 2043.. An inability of trading, brokerage, mining or freight counterparties to fulfill the terms of their contracts with us could reduce our profitability.. In conducting our trading, brokerage and mining operations, we utilize third-party sources of coal production and transportation, including contract miners and brokerage sources, to fulfill deliveries under our coal supply agreements. Employee relations at mines that use contractors are the responsibility of the contractor.. Our profitability or exposure to loss on transactions or relationships is dependent upon the reliability (including financial viability) and price of the third-party suppliers; our obligation to supply coal to customers in the event that weather, flooding, natural disasters or adverse geologic mining conditions restrict deliveries from our suppliers; our willingness to participate in temporary cost increases experienced by our third-party coal suppliers; our ability to pass on temporary cost increases to our customers; the ability to substitute, when economical, third-party coal sources with internal production or coal purchased in the market and the ability of our freight sources to fulfill their delivery obligations. Market volatility and price increases for coal or freight on the international and domestic markets could result in non-performance by third-party suppliers under existing contracts with us, in order to take advantage of the higher prices in the current market. Such non-performance could have an adverse impact on our ability to fulfill deliveries under our coal supply agreements.. We may not recover our investments in our mining, exploration and other assets, which may require us to recognize impairment charges related to those assets.. The value of our assets may be adversely affected by numerous uncertain factors, some of which are beyond our control, including unfavorable changes in the economic environments in which we operate, lower-than-expected coal pricing, technical and geological operating difficulties, an inability to economically extract our coal reserves and unanticipated increases in operating costs. These may cause us to fail to recover all or a portion of our investments in those assets and may trigger the recognition of impairment charges in the future, which could have a substantial impact on our results of operations. This may be mitigated by our application of fresh start reporting rules.. As described in Note 3. \"Asset Impairment\" to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, we recognized aggregate asset impairment costs of $30.5 million, $247.9 million and $1,277.8 million in the predecessor period January 1 through April 1, 2017 and the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Because of the volatile and cyclical nature of U.S. and international coal markets, it is reasonably possible that our current estimates of projected future cash flows from our mining assets may change in the near term, which may result in the need for adjustments to the carrying value of our assets.. Our ability to operate our company effectively could be impaired if we lose key personnel or fail to attract qualified personnel.. We manage our business with a number of key personnel, the loss of whom could have a material adverse effect on us, absent the completion of an orderly transition. In addition, we believe that our future success will depend greatly on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel, particularly personnel with mining experience. We cannot provide assurance that key personnel will continue to be employed by us or that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Failure to retain or attract key personnel could have a material adverse effect on us.. Peabody Energy Corporation 2017 Form 10-K  28. Table of Contents. We could be negatively affected if we fail to maintain satisfactory labor relations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately 7,100 employees (excluding employees that were employed at operations classified as discontinued), which included approximately 5,500 hourly employees. Approximately 38% of our hourly employees were represented by organized labor unions and generated approximately 20% of 2017 coal production for the 12 months ended December 31, 2017. Relations with our employees and, where applicable, organized labor are important to our success. If some or all of our current non-union operations were to become unionized, we could incur an increased risk of work stoppages, reduced productivity and higher labor costs. Also, if we fail to maintain good relations with our employees who are represented by unions, we could potentially experience labor disputes, work stoppages or other disruptions in production that could negatively impact our profitability.. We could be adversely affected if we fail to appropriately provide financial assurances for our obligations.. U.S. federal and state laws and Australian laws require us to provide financial assurances related to requirements to reclaim lands used for mining, to pay federal and state workers' compensation, to provide financial assurances for coal lease obligations and to satisfy other miscellaneous obligations. The primary methods we use to meet those obligations are to provide a third-party surety bond or provide a letter of credit. In the past in the U.S., we also posted a corporate guarantee (i.e., self- bond). As of December 31, 2017, we had outstanding surety bonds with third parties, bank guarantees and letters of credit of $1,675.2 million, of which $1,325.3 million was for post-mining reclamation, $214.5 million related to workers' compensation and other insurance obligations, $95.4 million was for coal lease obligations and $40.0 million was for other obligations, including road maintenance and performance guarantees. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, we had posted cash collateral of $323.1 million, primarily in support of our reclamation obligations in Australia. Surety bond issuers may demand additional collateral, which may in turn affect our available liquidity.. Our bonding obligations may increase due to a number of factors, and we may not qualify to self-bond or self-bonding programs may be terminated. Alternative forms of financial assurance such as surety bonds and letters of credit may not be available to us. Our failure to retain, or inability to obtain surety bonds, bank guarantees or letters of credit, or to provide a suitable alternative, could have a material adverse effect on us. That failure could result from a variety of factors including the following:. • lack of availability, higher expense or unfavorable market terms of new surety bonds; and. • inability to provide or fund collateral for current and future third-party surety bond issuers.. Our failure to maintain adequate bonding would invalidate our mining permits and prevent mining operations from continuing, which would cast substantial doubt on our ability to continue as a going concern.. Our mining operations are extensively regulated, which imposes significant costs on us, and future regulations and developments could increase those costs or limit our ability to produce coal.. The coal mining industry is subject to regulation by federal, state and local authorities with respect to matters such as:. • workplace health and safety;. • limitations on land use;. • mine permitting and licensing requirements;. • reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed;. • the storage, treatment and disposal of wastes;. • remediation of contaminated soil, sediment and groundwater;. • air quality standards;. • water pollution;. • protection of human health, plant-life and wildlife, including endangered or threatened species and habitats;. • protection of wetlands;. • the discharge of materials into the environment; and. • the effects of mining on surface water and groundwater quality and availability.. Regulatory agencies have the authority under certain circumstances following significant health and safety incidents to order a mine to be temporarily or permanently closed. In the event that such agencies ordered the closing of one of our mines, our production and sale of coal would be disrupted and we may be required to incur cash outlays to re-open the mine. Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Peabody Energy Corporation 2017 Form 10-K  29. Table of Contents. The possibility exists that new legislation or regulations and orders, including without limitation related to the environment or employee health and safety may be adopted and may materially adversely affect our mining operations, our cost structure or our customers' ability to use coal. New legislation or administrative regulations (or new interpretations by the relevant government of existing laws, regulations and approvals), including proposals related to the protection of the environment or the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions that would further regulate and tax the coal industry, may also require us or our customers to change operations significantly or incur increased costs. Some of our coal supply agreements contain provisions that allow a purchaser to terminate its contract if legislation is passed that either restricts the use or type of coal permissible at the purchaser's plant or results in specified increases in the cost of coal or its use. These factors and legislation, if enacted, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. For additional information about the various regulations affecting us, see the sections entitled \"Regulatory Matters  - U.S.\" and \"Regulatory Matters  -  Australia\".. Our operations may impact the environment or cause exposure to hazardous substances, and our properties may have environmental contamination, which could result in material liabilities to us.. Our operations currently use hazardous materials and generate limited quantities of hazardous wastes from time to time. A number of laws, including in the U.S., CERCLA and RCRA, impose liability relating to contamination by hazardous substances. Such liability may involve the costs of investigating or remediating contamination and damages to natural resources, as well as claims seeking to recover for property damage or personal injury caused by hazardous substances. Such liability may arise from conditions at formerly, as well as currently, owned or operated properties, and at properties to which hazardous substances have been sent for treatment, disposal or other handling. Liability under RCRA, CERCLA and similar state statutes is without regard to fault, and typically is joint and several, meaning that a person may be held responsible for more than its share, or even all, of the liability involved.. We may be unable to obtain, renew or maintain permits necessary for our operations, which would reduce our production, cash flows and profitability.. Numerous governmental and tribal permits and approvals are required for mining operations. The permitting rules, and the interpretations of these rules, are complex and are often subject to discretionary interpretations by regulators, all of which may make compliance more difficult or impractical.  As part of this permitting process, when we apply for permits and approvals, we are required to prepare and present to governmental authorities data pertaining to the potential impact or effect that any proposed exploration for or production of coal may have upon the environment. The public, including non-governmental organizations, opposition groups and individuals, have statutory rights to comment upon and submit objections to requested permits and approvals (including modifications and renewals of certain permits and approvals). In recent years, the permitting required for coal mining has been the subject of increasingly stringent regulatory and administrative requirements and extensive litigation by environmental groups.. The costs, liabilities and requirements associated with these permitting requirements and opposition may be costly and time-consuming and may delay commencement or continuation of exploration or production and as a result, adversely affect our coal production, cash flows and profitability.  Further, required permits may not be issued or renewed in a timely fashion or at all, or permits issued or renewed may be conditioned in a manner that may restrict our ability to efficiently and economically conduct our mining activities, any of which would materially reduce our production, cash flow and profitability.. The Corps regulates certain activities affecting navigable waters and waters of the U.S., including wetlands. Section 404 of the CWA requires mining companies like us to obtain Corps permits to place material in streams for the purpose of creating slurry ponds, water impoundments, refuse areas, valley fills or other mining activities. In recent years, the Section 404 permitting process has been subject to increasingly stringent regulatory and administrative requirements and a series of court challenges, which have resulted in increased costs and delays in the permitting process. Additionally, increasingly stringent requirements governing coal mining also are being considered or implemented under the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act, the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System permit process and various other environmental programs. Potential laws, regulations and policies could result in material adverse impacts on our operations, financial condition or cash flow, in view of the significant uncertainty surrounding each of these potential laws, regulations and policies.. Our mining operations are subject to extensive forms of taxation, which imposes significant costs on us, and future regulations and developments could increase those costs or limit our ability to produce coal competitively.. Federal, state, provincial or local governmental authorities in nearly all countries across the global coal mining industry impose various forms of taxation, including production taxes, sales-related taxes, royalties, environmental taxes, mining profits taxes and income taxes. If new legislation or regulations related to various forms of coal taxation, which increase our costs or limit our ability to compete in the areas in which we sell our coal, are adopted, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.. Peabody Energy Corporation 2017 Form 10-K  30. Table of Contents. If the assumptions underlying our asset retirement obligations for reclamation and mine closures are materially inaccurate, our costs could be significantly greater than anticipated.. Our asset retirement obligations primarily consist of spending estimates for surface land reclamation and support facilities at both surface and underground mines in accordance with federal and state reclamation laws in the U.S. and Australia as defined by each mining permit. These obligations are determined for each mine using various estimates and assumptions including, among other items, estimates of disturbed acreage as determined from engineering data, estimates of future costs to reclaim the disturbed acreage and the timing of these cash flows, which is driven by the estimated economic life of the mine and the applicable reclamation laws. These cash flows are discounted using a credit-adjusted, risk-free rate. Our management and engineers periodically review these estimates. If our assumptions do not materialize as expected, actual cash expenditures and costs that we incur could be materially different than currently estimated. Moreover, regulatory changes could increase our obligation to perform reclamation, mine closing and post-closure activities. The resulting estimated asset retirement obligation could change significantly if actual amounts change significantly from our assumptions, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our future success depends upon our ability to continue acquiring and developing coal reserves that are economically recoverable.. Our recoverable reserves decline as we produce coal. We have not yet applied for the permits required or developed the mines necessary to use all of our reserves. Moreover, the amount of proven and probable coal reserves described in Part I, Item 2. \"Properties\" involves the use of certain estimates and those estimates could be inaccurate. Information about our reserves consists of estimates based on engineering, economic and geological data assembled and analyzed by our staff.  Some of the factors and assumptions which impact economically recoverable coal reserve estimates include geological conditions, historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas, the assumed effects of regulations and taxes by governmental agencies and assumptions governing future prices and future operating costs.  Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to our coal reserves may vary materially from estimates.. Our future success depends upon our conducting successful exploration and development activities or acquiring properties containing economically recoverable reserves. Our current strategy includes increasing our reserves through acquisitions of government and other leases and producing properties and continuing to use our existing properties and infrastructure. In certain locations, leases for oil, natural gas and coalbed methane reserves are located on, or adjacent to, some of our reserves, potentially creating conflicting interests between us and lessees of those interests. Other lessees' rights relating to these mineral interests could prevent, delay or increase the cost of developing our coal reserves. These lessees may also seek damages from us based on claims that our coal mining operations impair their interests. Additionally, the U.S. federal government limits the amount of federal land that may be leased by any company to 75,000 acres in any one state and 150,000 acres nationwide. As of December 31, 2017, we leased a total of 55,228 acres from the federal government subject to those limitations. Many of these leases are in place for the next 20 years.. Our planned mine development projects and acquisition activities may not result in significant additional reserves, and we may not have success developing additional mines. Most of our mining operations are conducted on properties owned or leased by us. Our right to mine some of our reserves may be materially adversely affected if defects in title or boundaries exist. In order to conduct our mining operations on properties where these defects exist, we may incur unanticipated costs. In addition, in order to develop our reserves, we must also own the rights to the related surface property and receive various governmental permits. We cannot predict whether we will continue to receive the permits or appropriate land access necessary for us to operate profitably in the future. We may not be able to negotiate new leases from the government or from private parties, obtain mining contracts for properties containing additional reserves or maintain our leasehold interest in properties on which mining operations have not commenced or have not met minimum quantity or product royalty requirements. From time to time, we have experienced litigation with lessors of our coal properties and with royalty holders. In addition, from time to time, our permit applications and federal and state coal leases have been challenged, causing production delays.. To the extent that our existing sources of liquidity are not sufficient to fund our planned mine development projects and reserve acquisition activities, we may require access to capital markets, which may not be available to us or, if available, may not be available on satisfactory terms. If we are unable to fund these activities, we may not be able to maintain or increase our existing production rates and we could be forced to change our business strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Peabody Energy Corporation 2017 Form 10-K  31. Table of Contents. We face numerous uncertainties in estimating our economically recoverable coal reserves and inaccuracies in our estimates could result in lower than expected revenues, higher than expected costs and decreased profitability.. Coal is economically recoverable when the price at which our coal can be sold exceeds the costs and expenses of mining and selling the coal. The costs and expenses of mining and selling the coal are determined on a mine-by-mine basis, and as a result, the price at which our coal is economically recoverable varies based on the mine. Forecasts of our future performance are based on, among other things, estimates of our recoverable coal reserves. We base our reserve information on engineering, economic and geological data assembled and analyzed by our staff and third parties, which includes various engineers and geologists. The reserve estimates as to both quantity and quality are updated from time to time to reflect production of coal from the reserves and new drilling or other data received. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and qualities of coal and costs to mine recoverable reserves, including many factors beyond our control. Estimates of economically recoverable coal reserves necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, any one of which may, if incorrect, result in an estimate that varies considerably from actual results. These factors and assumptions include:. • geologic and mining conditions, which may not be fully identified by available exploration data and may differ from our experience in areas we currently mine;. • current and future market prices for coal, contractual arrangements, operating costs and capital expenditures;. • severance and excise taxes, royalties and development and reclamation costs;. • future mining technology improvements;. • the effects of regulation by governmental agencies;. • the ability to obtain, maintain and renew all required permits;. • employee health and safety; and. • historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas. As a result, actual coal tonnage recovered from identified reserve areas or properties and revenues and expenditures with respect to our reserves may vary materially from estimates. These estimates thus may not accurately reflect our actual reserves. Any material inaccuracy in our estimates related to our reserves could result in lower than expected revenues, higher than expected costs or decreased profitability which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. Our global operations increase our exposure to risks unique to international mining and trading operations.. Our international platform increases our exposure to country risks, international regulatory requirements and the effects of changes in currency exchange rates. Some of our international activities are in developing countries where the economic strength, business practices and counterparty reputations may not be as well developed as in our U.S. or Australian operations. We are exposed to various business and political risks, including political instability, heightened levels of corruption or fraud in certain markets, the potential for expropriation of assets, costs associated with the repatriation of earnings and the potential for unexpected changes in regulatory requirements. Despite our efforts to perform due diligence, screening, training and auditing of internal and external business agents, vendors, partners and customers to mitigate these risks, our results of operations, financial position or cash flows could be adversely affected by these activities.. Joint ventures, partnerships or non-managed operations may not be successful and may not comply with our operating standards.. We participate in several joint venture and partnership arrangements and may enter into others, all of which necessarily involve risk. Whether or not we hold majority interests or maintain operational control in our joint ventures, our partners may, among other things, (1) have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with, or opposed to, ours; (2) seek to block actions that we believe are in our or the joint venture's best interests; or (3) be unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations under the joint venture or other agreements, such as contributing capital, each of which may adversely impact our results of operations and our liquidity or impair our ability to recover our investments.. Where our joint ventures are jointly controlled or not managed by us, we may provide expertise and advice but have limited control over compliance with our operational standards. We also utilize contractors across our mining platform, and may be similarly limited in our ability to control their operational practices. Failure by non-controlled joint venture partners or contractors to adhere to operational standards that are equivalent to ours could unfavorably affect operating costs and productivity and adversely impact our results of operations and reputation.. Peabody Energy Corporation 2017 Form 10-K  32. Table of Contents. We may undertake further repositioning plans that would require additional charges.. As a result of our continuing review of our business or changing demand, we may choose to further reduce our workforce in the future. These actions may result in further restructuring charges, cash expenditures and the consumption of management resources, any of which could cause our operating results to decline and may fail to yield the expected benefits.. We could be exposed to significant liability, reputational harm, loss of revenue, increased costs or other risks if we sustain cyber attacks or other security breaches that disrupt our operations or result in the dissemination of proprietary or confidential information about us, our customers or other third-parties.. We have implemented security protocols and systems with the intent of maintaining the physical security of our operations and protecting our and our counterparties' confidential information and information related to identifiable individuals against unauthorized access. Despite such efforts, we may be subject to security breaches which could result in unauthorized access to our facilities or the information we are trying to protect. Unauthorized physical access to one of our facilities or electronic access to our information systems could result in, among other things, unfavorable publicity, litigation by affected parties, damage to sources of competitive advantage, disruptions to our operations, loss of customers, financial obligations for damages related to the theft or misuse of such information and costs to remediate such security vulnerabilities, any of which could have a substantial impact on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. Our expenditures for postretirement benefit and pension obligations could be materially higher than we have predicted if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect.. We provide postretirement health and life insurance benefits to eligible employees. Our total accumulated postretirement benefit obligation related to such benefits was a liability of $783.3 million as of December 31, 2017, of which $53.3 million was classified as a current liability. Certain of our U.S. subsidiaries also sponsor defined benefit pension plans. Net pension liabilities were $98.0 million as of December 31, 2017, of which none was classified a current liability.. These liabilities are actuarially determined and we use various actuarial assumptions, including the discount rate, future cost trends, and rates of return on plan assets to estimate the costs and obligations for these items. Our discount rate is determined by utilizing a hypothetical bond portfolio model which approximates the future cash flows necessary to service our liabilities. A decrease in the discount rate used to determine our postretirement benefit and defined benefit pension obligations could result in an increase in the valuation of these obligations, thereby increasing the cost in subsequent fiscal years. We have made assumptions related to future trends for medical care costs in the estimates of retiree health care obligations. Our medical trend assumption is developed by annually examining the historical trend of our cost per claim data. If our assumptions do not materialize as expected, actual cash expenditures and costs that we incur could differ materially from our current estimates. Moreover, regulatory changes or changes in healthcare benefits provided by the government could increase our obligation to satisfy these or additional obligations. Additionally, our reported defined benefit pension funding status may be affected, and we may be required to increase employer contributions, due to increases in our defined benefit pension obligation or poor financial performance in asset markets in future years.. Our defined benefit pension plans are subject to the provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA). It is implicit in our underlying assumptions that those plans continue to operate in the normal course of business. However, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) may terminate our plans under certain circumstances pursuant to ERISA, including in the event that the PBGC concludes that its risk may increase unreasonably if such plans continue to operate based on its assessment of the plans' funded status, our financial condition or other factors. Termination of the plans would require us to provide immediate funding or other financial assurance to the PBGC for all or a substantial portion of the underfunded amounts, as determined by the PBGC based on its own assumptions. Those assumptions may differ from our own. Any of those consequences could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial conditions or available liquidity.. Concerns about the environmental impacts of coal combustion, including perceived impacts on global climate issues, are resulting in increased regulation of coal combustion in many jurisdictions, unfavorable lending policies by government-backed lending institutions and development banks toward the financing of new overseas coal-fueled power plants and divestment efforts affecting the investment community, which could significantly affect demand for our products or our securities.. Global climate issues continue to attract public and scientific attention. Numerous reports, such as the Fourth and the Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, have also engendered concern about the impacts of human activity, especially fossil fuel combustion, on global climate issues. In turn, increasing government attention is being paid to global climate issues and to emissions of what are commonly referred to as greenhouse gases, including emissions of carbon dioxide from coal combustion by power plants.. Peabody Energy Corporation 2017 Form 10-K  33. Table of Contents. Enactment of laws or passage of regulations regarding emissions from the combustion of coal by the U.S., some of its states or other countries, or other actions to limit such emissions, could result in electricity generators switching from coal to other fuel sources or coal-fueled power plant closures. Further, policies limiting available financing for the development of new coal-fueled power plants could adversely impact the global demand for coal. The potential financial impact on us of future laws, regulations or other policies will depend upon the degree to which any such laws or regulations force electricity generators to diminish their reliance on coal as a fuel source. That, in turn, will depend on a number of factors, including the specific requirements imposed by any such laws, regulations or other policies, the time periods over which those laws, regulations or other policies would be phased in, the state of commercial development and deployment of CCUS technologies and the alternative markets for coal. From time to time, we attempt to analyze the potential impact on the Company of as-yet-unadopted potential laws, regulations and policies. Such analyses require that we make significant assumptions as to the specific provisions of such potential laws, regulations and policies. These analyses sometimes show that certain potential laws, regulations and policies, if implemented in the manner assumed by the analyses, could result in material adverse impacts on our  operations, financial condition or cash flow, in view of the significant uncertainty surrounding each of these potential laws, regulations and policies. We do not believe that such analyses reasonably predict the quantitative impact that future laws, regulations or other policies may have on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. There have also been efforts in recent years affecting the investment community, including investment advisors, sovereign wealth funds, public pension funds, universities and other groups, promoting the divestment of fossil fuel equities and also pressuring lenders to limit funding to companies engaged in the extraction of fossil fuel reserves. The impact of such efforts may adversely affect the demand for and price of securities issued by us and impact our access to the capital and financial markets.. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness and Capital Structure. Our financial performance could be adversely affected by our indebtedness.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $1.4 billion of indebtedness outstanding, excluding capital leases, on a consolidated basis.. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences, including, but not limited to:. • making it more difficult for us to pay interest and satisfy our debt obligations;. • increasing the cost of borrowing under our credit facilities;. • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, business development or other general corporate requirements;. • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, business development or other general corporate requirements;. • making it more difficult to obtain surety bonds, letters of credit, bank guarantees or other financing, particularly during periods in which credit markets are weak;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in the coal industry;. • causing a decline in our credit ratings; and. • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors.. In addition, our indebtedness subjects us to certain restrictive covenants. Failure by us to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us and result in amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable.. Any downgrade in our credit ratings could result in, among other matters, additional required financial assurances related to our reclamation bonding requirements, a requirement to post additional collateral on derivative trading instruments that we may enter into, the loss of trading counterparties for corporate hedging and trading and brokerage activities or an increase in the cost of, or a limit on our access to, various forms of credit used in operating our business.. Peabody Energy Corporation 2017 Form 10-K  34. Table of Contents. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional capital or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of sufficient operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to sell material assets or operations to attempt to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our indebtedness restricts our ability to sell assets outside of the ordinary course of business and restricts the use of the proceeds from any such sales. We may not be able to complete those sales or obtain the proceeds which we could realize from them, and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. In addition, the terms of our indebtedness provide that if we cannot meet our debt service obligations, the lenders could foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.. Despite our and our subsidiaries' indebtedness, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt, including secured debt. This could further increase the risks associated with our indebtedness.. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, including additional secured debt. Although covenants under the indenture governing our senior secured notes and the agreements governing our other post-emergence indebtedness, including our senior secured term loan facility and capital leases limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions and, under certain circumstances, debt incurred in compliance with these restrictions can be substantial. In addition, the indenture governing the senior secured notes and the agreements governing our other indebtedness do not limit us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness as defined therein.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness or other obligations.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or refinance our debt obligations, depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic, industry, and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory, and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flow from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness or other obligations.. The terms of our indenture governing our senior secured notes and the agreements and instruments governing our other post-emergence indebtedness impose restrictions that may limit our operating and financial flexibility.. The indenture governing our senior secured notes and the agreements and instruments governing our other post-emergence indebtedness will contain certain restrictions and covenants which restrict our ability to incur liens and/or debt or provide guarantees in respect of obligations of any other person, which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquidity, and therefore could adversely affect our results of operations. Our senior secured term loan facility also contains a mandatory prepayment provision providing that certain amounts of excess cash flow (as defined in the agreements governing the facility) must be utilized to make payments on the outstanding balance under that facility.. These covenants restrict, among other things, our ability to:. • incur additional indebtedness;. • pay dividends on or make distributions in respect of stock or make certain other restricted payments or investments;. • enter into agreements that restrict distributions from certain subsidiaries;. • sell or otherwise dispose of assets;. • incur capital expenditures beyond a specified amount;. • enter into transactions with affiliates;. • create or incur liens;. • merge, consolidate or sell all or substantially all of our assets; and. • place restrictions on the ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to us.. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control and we may need to refinance existing debt in the future. A breach of any of these covenants together with the expiration of any cure period, if applicable, could result in a default under our senior secured notes. If any such default occurs, subject to applicable grace periods, the holder of our senior secured notes may elect to declare all outstanding senior secured notes, together with accrued interest and other amounts payable thereunder, to be immediately due and payable. If the obligations under our senior secured notes were to be accelerated, our financial resources may be insufficient to repay the notes and any other indebtedness becoming due in full.. Peabody Energy Corporation 2017 Form 10-K  35. Table of Contents. In addition, if we breach the covenants in the indentures governing the senior secured notes and do not cure such breach within the applicable time periods specified therein, we would cause an event of default under the indenture governing the senior secured notes and a cross-default to certain of our other post-emergence indebtedness and the lenders or holders thereunder could accelerate their obligations. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay our indebtedness or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms or on terms that are acceptable to us. If our indebtedness is in default for any reason, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, complying with these covenants may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies who are not subject to such restrictions.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Securities. The price of our securities may be volatile.. The price of our common stock (\"Common Stock\") may fluctuate due to a variety of market and industry factors that may materially reduce the market price of our Common Stock regardless of our operating performance, including, among others:. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results and those of other public companies in our industry;. • industry cycles and trends;. • mergers and strategic alliances in the coal industry;. • changes in government regulation;. • potential or actual military conflicts or acts of terrorism;. • the failure of securities analysts to publish research about us or to accurately predict the results we actually achieve;. • the limited trading history of our Common Stock;. • changes in accounting principles;. • announcements concerning us or our competitors; and. • the general state of the securities market.. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced significant volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of companies whose shares are traded. These market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our Common Stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. As a result of all of these factors, investors in our Common Stock may not be able to resell their stock at or above the price they paid or at all. Further, we could be the subject of securities class action litigation due to any such stock price volatility, which could divert management's attention and have a material adverse effect on our results of operation.. Our Common Stock is subject to dilution and may be subject to further dilution in the future.. Our Common Stock is subject to dilution from our long-term incentive plan. In addition, in the future, we may issue equity securities in connection with future investments, acquisitions or capital raising transactions. Such issuances or grants could constitute a significant portion of the then-outstanding Common Stock, which may result in significant dilution in ownership of Common Stock.. There may be circumstances in which the interests of a significant stockholder could be in conflict with other stockholders' interests.. Circumstances may arise in which a significant stockholder may have an interest in exerting influence to pursue or prevent acquisitions, divestitures or other transactions, including the issuance of additional shares or debt, that, in its judgment, could enhance its investment in us or another company in which it invests. Such transactions might adversely affect us or other holders of our Common Stock.. Peabody Energy Corporation 2017 Form 10-K  36. Table of Contents. The payment of dividends on our stock or repurchases of our stock is dependent on a number of factors, and future payments and repurchases cannot be assured.. Restrictive covenants in our Credit Facility and in the indenture governing our senior secured notes limit our ability to pay cash dividends and repurchase shares. Other debt instruments to which we or our subsidiaries are, or may be, a party, also contain restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to pay dividends or for us to receive dividends from our subsidiaries, any of which may negatively impact the trading price of the Common Stock. In addition, holders of capital stock will only be entitled to receive such cash dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments, and our Board of Directors may only authorize us to repurchase shares of our capital stock with funds legally available for such repurchases. The payment of future cash dividends and future repurchases will depend upon our earnings, economic conditions, liquidity and capital requirements, and other factors, including our debt leverage. Accordingly, we cannot make any assurance that future dividends will be paid or future repurchases will be made.. Other Business Risks. We may not be able to fully utilize our deferred tax assets.. We are subject to income and other taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions, most significantly Australia. As of December 31, 2017, we had gross deferred income tax assets, including net operating loss carryforwards, and liabilities of $2,981.3 million and $468.6 million, respectively, as described further in Note 11. \"Income Taxes\" to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. At that date, we also had recorded a valuation allowance of $2,432.5 million, substantially comprised of a full valuation allowance against our net deferred tax asset positions in the U.S. and Australia driven by recent cumulative book losses, as determined by considering all sources of available income (including items classified as discontinued operations or recorded directly to \"Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)\"), which limited our ability to look to future taxable income in assessing the likelihood of realizing those assets.. Although we may be able to utilize some or all of those deferred tax assets in the future if we have income of the appropriate character in those jurisdictions (subject to loss carryforward and tax credit expiry, in certain cases), there is no assurance that we will be able to do so. Further, we are presently unable to record tax benefits on future losses in the U.S. and Australia until such time as sufficient income is generated by our operations in those jurisdictions to support the realization of the related net deferred tax asset positions. Our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may adversely be affected in future periods by these limitations.. Divestitures and acquisitions are a potentially important part of our long-term strategy, subject to our investment criteria, and involve a number of risks, any of which could cause us not to realize the anticipated benefits.. We may engage in divestiture or acquisition activity based on our set of investment criteria to produce outcomes that increase shareholder value. As it relates to divestitures, we may dispose of certain assets within our portfolio if we determine that the price received is more beneficial to us than keeping the assets within our portfolio. Conversely, acquisitions are a potentially important part of our long-term strategy, and we may pursue acquisition opportunities. If we fail to accurately estimate the future results and value of a divested or acquired business and the related risk associated with such a transaction, or are unable to successfully integrate the businesses or properties we acquire, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. Moreover, any transactions we pursue could materially impact our liquidity and an acquisition could increase capital resource needs and may require us to incur indebtedness, seek equity capital or both. We may not be able to satisfy these liquidity and capital resource needs on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, future acquisitions could result in our assuming significant long-term liabilities relative to the value of the acquisitions.. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws include provisions that may discourage a takeover attempt.. Provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our by-laws and certificate of incorporation impose various procedural and other requirements that could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Common Stock and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control.. Diversity in interpretation and application of accounting literature in the mining industry may impact our reported financial results.. The mining industry has limited industry-specific accounting literature and, as a result, we understand diversity in practice exists in the interpretation and application of accounting literature to mining-specific issues. As diversity in mining industry accounting is addressed, we may need to restate our reported results if the resulting interpretations differ from our current accounting practices. Refer to Note 1. \"Summary of Significant Accounting Policies\" to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a summary of our significant accounting policies.. Peabody Energy Corporation 2017 Form 10-K  37. Table of Contents"
