[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. You should carefully read and consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information set forth in this Report. Our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and the trading price of our common stock could be materially and adversely harmed by any of the following risks. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also significantly impair our business operations.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. Our industry is sensitive to weakness in the economy, and we are subject to risks associated with the overall leisure industry.. An economic downturn or weak economic conditions in the U.S. could have an adverse effect on our industry and could reduce consumer spending on recreational activities such as those offered by our resorts, resulting in decreased skier visits and reduced consumer spending at our ski resorts. In addition, while we have been successful in raising prices under a variety of economic conditions, we may be unable to maintain or increase the price of our lift tickets, season passes or other offerings during an economic downturn. Such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Our business is vulnerable to the risk of unseasonably warm weather conditions and skier perceptions of weather conditions.. Our ability to operate and attract visitors to our resorts is influenced by weather conditions. Unseasonably warm weather can adversely affect our resorts' opening and closing dates, the number of days we operate during a ski season, our ability to manufacture snow and maintain good ski conditions, and the number of skier visits to our resorts. Such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. For example, warm weather may result in inadequate natural snowfall and render snowmaking wholly or partially ineffective in maintaining quality skiing conditions. Early season snow conditions and skier perceptions of such snow conditions may influence the momentum and success of the overall season. There is no way for us to predict future weather patterns or the impact weather patterns may have on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Climate change and greenhouse effects may adversely impact our results of operations.. 13. There is a growing political and scientific consensus that emissions of greenhouse gases continue to alter the composition of the global atmosphere in ways that are affecting and are expected to continue affecting the global climate. The effects of climate change, including any impact of global warming, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Warmer may result in inadequate natural snowfall and render snowmaking wholly or partially ineffective in maintaining quality skiing conditions. In addition, a steady increase in global temperatures could shorten the ski season in the future. Climate change may also cause an increase in changes to precipitation and extreme weather events in ways we cannot currently predict. Such changes to the amount of natural snowfall and extreme differences in weather patterns may increase our snowmaking expense, inhibit our snowmaking capabilities and negatively impact skier visits.. Our business is highly seasonal and the occurrence of certain events during our peak times could have a negative effect on our revenues.. Our resort operations are highly seasonal. Air temperatures and the timing and amount of snowfall controls our resorts' opening and closing dates and can influence the number and type of skier visits. The majority of our skier visits are from mid-December to early April. Accordingly, during the past three fiscal years, we generated, on average, 87.6 % of our revenues during the third and fourth fiscal quarters. In addition, throughout our peak quarters, we generate the highest revenues on weekends and during three major holiday periods: Christmas, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day and Presidents Day. During the 2017/2018 ski season, we generated 44.8% of our revenues on weekends and 26.0% of our revenues during these three major holiday periods. Our resorts typically experience operating losses and negative cash flows during the first and second quarters of each fiscal year while our resorts' winter sports activities are not in operation. Operating results for any fiscal quarter are not indicative of the results that may be achieved for any subsequent quarter or for a full fiscal year. A high degree of seasonality in our revenues and our dependence on weekends and major holidays increases the impact of weather and other events on our operating results. Adverse weather conditions, equipment failures, and other developments of even moderate or limited duration occurring during these peak business periods could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We may not be able to fully utilize our net operating loss or interest carryforwards.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act legislation (the \"Jobs Act\") signed into law in December 2017 included a provision under which net operating losses, incurred in calendar year 2018 and thereafter may be carried forward for an indefinite period.  However, the Act limited the amount of income that such net operating loss (\"NOL\") carryforwards can be used to offset in a subsequent tax year. The Jobs Act also placed limitations on our ability to deduct interest expense in a given tax year; however, the Jobs Act provides that interest expense not deducted in the year incurred by virtue of those limitations, may be carried forward indefinitely.  The interest limitations of the Act may increase the likelihood that our net operating loss carryovers arising prior to calendar year 2018 will be utilized prior to their expiration.  However, because any interest carryover amounts retain their character as interest, in future years we may not be able to realize the benefit of any accumulated interest carryforwards.. Uncertainty exists with respect to the future realization of the NOL carryforwards and the amount of any NOL carryforwards we will be able to utilize in a given future period. To the extent available, we intend to use these NOL carryforwards to offset future taxable income. There can be no assurance, however, that we will generate sufficient taxable income in the carryforward period to utilize any NOL carryforwards before they expire. In addition, Section 382 and related provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"), contains rules that limit for U.S. federal income tax purposes the ability of a company that undergoes an \"ownership change\" to utilize its NOLs and certain other tax attributes existing as of the date of such ownership change. In connection with our initial public offering (\"IPO\") in November 2014 and our acquisition of the Hunter Mountain ski resort, changes in ownership occurred pursuant to the provisions of the Code. As a result, usage of NOL carryforwards which existed prior to our IPO and usage of NOL carryforwards acquired in the Hunter Mountain ski resort acquisition will be limited each year and may expire before we have the ability to utilize them.. Variations in the timing of peak periods, holidays and weekends may affect the comparability of our results of operations.. Depending on how peak periods, holidays and weekends fall on the calendar, in any given year we may have more or fewer peak periods, holidays and weekends in our third fiscal quarter compared to prior years, with a corresponding difference in our fourth fiscal quarter. These differences can result in material differences in our quarterly results of operations and affect the comparability of our results of operations.. We compete with other leisure activities and ski resorts, which makes maintaining our customer base difficult.. 14. The ski industry is highly competitive and capital intensive. Our ski resorts located in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic states, compete against other ski resorts in their markets for both day and overnight drive skiers. Our competitive position depends on several factors, such as the quality and coverage of snowmaking operations, resort size, the attractiveness of terrain, lift ticket prices, prevailing weather conditions, the appeal of related services and resort reputation. Some of our competitors have stronger competitive positions in respect of one or more of these factors, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We believe that while our Midwestern ski resorts face only limited competition from other ski resorts in the region, our competitors in the Midwest primarily include other recreation resorts, including warm weather resorts and various alternative leisure activities. Our resorts in the Northeastern and Mid-Atlantic states face similar competition from non-ski competitors. Our ability to maintain or improve skier visits at our resorts depends on, among other things, weather conditions, costs of lift tickets and related skier services relative to the costs of other leisure activities and our ability to attract people interested in recreational sports. Our failure to compete on these or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Changes in consumer behavior and preferences may affect skier visits at our ski resorts.. Our success depends on our ability to attract visitors to our ski resorts. Changes in consumer behavior and preferences, particularly those affecting the popularity of skiing, snowboarding and tubing, and other social and demographic trends, could adversely affect the number of skier visits during a ski season. A reduction in average household income in areas near our resorts, compared to historic levels, combined with the increasing cost of skiing, snowboarding and tubing, may make these activities unaffordable for a large percentage of that population. A significant decline in skier visits compared to historical levels could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We may engage in acquisitions that could harm our business, operating results or financial condition.. A key component of our business strategy is to identify and acquire properties that are complementary to our core business. We frequently evaluate potential acquisitions and intend to actively pursue acquisition opportunities, some of which could be significant.  We cannot make assurances that we will be able to successfully integrate and manage acquired properties and businesses and increase our profits from these operations.. The integration of acquired businesses may result in disruption to other parts of our business and may require that we incur significant restructuring charges. To integrate acquired businesses, we must implement our management information systems, operating systems and internal controls, and assimilate and manage the personnel of the acquired operations. The difficulties of the integrations may be further complicated by such factors as geographic distances, lack of experience operating in the geographic market or industry sector of the acquired business, delays and challenges associated with integrating the business with our existing businesses, diversion of management's attention from daily operations of the business, potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business, the potential for deficiencies in internal controls at the acquired business, performance problems with the acquired business' technology, exposure to unanticipated liabilities of the acquired business, insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with the acquisition, and our ability to achieve the growth prospects and synergies expected from any such acquisition. Even when an acquired business has already developed and marketed products and services, there can be no assurance that product or service enhancements will be made in a timely fashion or that all pre-acquisition due diligence will have identified all possible issues that might arise with respect to such acquired assets.. Future acquisitions may also cause us to i) assume liabilities, ii) record goodwill and intangible assets which are subject to impairment, iii) incur amortization expense related to intangible assets and iv) increase our expenses and working capital requirements, all of which may reduce our return on invested capital. Failure to manage and successfully integrate the acquisitions we make could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We may be unsuccessful in identifying suitable acquisition candidates which may negatively impact our growth strategy.. There can be no assurance we will be able to identify additional suitable acquisition candidates or consummate future acquisitions or strategic transactions on acceptable terms. Failure to successfully consummate future acquisitions or strategic transactions on acceptable terms could disrupt our business strategy and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. 15. We rely on information technology to operate our businesses and maintain our competitiveness, and a failure to adapt to technological developments or industry trends could harm our business.. We depend on the use of information technology systems, including systems used for central reservations, point of sale, procurement and administration. We must continuously improve and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to offer enhanced products, services, features and functionality, while maintaining the reliability and integrity of our systems and infrastructure. Our future success also depends on our ability to adapt our infrastructure to meet rapidly evolving consumer trends and demands and to respond to competitive service and product offerings.. We may not be able to maintain our existing systems or replace or introduce new technologies and systems as quickly as we would like or in a cost-effective manner. Delays or difficulties in implementing new or enhanced systems may keep us from achieving the desired results in a timely manner, to the extent anticipated, or at all. Any interruptions, outages or delays in our systems, or deterioration in their performance, could impair our ability to process transactions and could decrease our quality of service that we offer to our guests. Also, we may be unable to devote financial resources to new technologies and systems in the future. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. If we experience any service interruptions, data corruption or cyber or other security breaches, our operations could be disrupted.. We rely on information technology systems which are susceptible to damage, disruption or shutdowns as a result of various circumstances including, for example, failures during the process of upgrading or replacing technology, power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, computer hackers, telecommunication failures, user errors, or catastrophic events.  If our information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, our business maybe disrupted, resulting in an inability to operate our business.. We possess sensitive customer and employee information which is stored on our own systems, on hosted third-party servers, and which may be shared with third-party service providers such as those we use for payroll and management of employee benefits. While we believe we have taken reasonable and appropriate security measures to protect this information, hackers and data thieves may operate sophisticated attacks that could breach our information systems and compromise this information. Consequently, a security breach could result in unauthorized disclosure of confidential information.   In addition, we are required to comply with increasingly complex regulations designed to protect our business and personal data.. A breach of our network security, a third-party's network security or our failure to comply with applicable regulations may result in i) the loss of valuable business data and/or our customers' or employees' personal information, ii) increased costs to implement additional protections and processes, iii) a disruption of our business and a loss of revenue, iv) damage to our relationships and reputation, v) fines or lawsuits, vi) costs related to cyber or other security threats or breaches which may not be fully insured or indemnified, or vii) other circumstances which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Failure to maintain the integrity of guest data could result in damage to our reputation and/or subject us to costs, fines or lawsuits.. We collect personally identifiable information relating to our guests for various business purposes, including marketing and promotional purposes. The integrity and privacy of our guests' information is important to us, and our guests have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. The regulatory environment governing privacy laws is increasingly demanding, and privacy laws continue to evolve and, on occasion, may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. Maintaining compliance with applicable privacy regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to market our products, properties and services to our guests. Furthermore, i) non-compliance with applicable privacy regulations by us or by third parties engaged by us, ii) a breach of security on systems storing our guest data, iii) a loss of guest data, or iv) fraudulent use of guest data could adversely impact our reputation or result in fines or other damages and litigation.. We are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations in the ordinary course of business.. 16. Our operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to emissions to the air; discharges to water; storage, treatment and disposal of wastes; land use; remediation of contaminated sites; and protection of natural resources such as wetlands. For example, future expansions of certain of our ski facilities may be required to comply with applicable forest management plans approved under the National Forest Management Act or local zoning requirements. In addition, most projects to improve, upgrade or expand our ski resorts are subject to environmental review under the NEPA. For our resorts that operate on National Forest land, both acts require the U.S. Forest Service to study any proposal for potential environmental impacts and include in its analysis various alternatives. Our ski resort improvement proposals may not be approved or may be approved with modifications that substantially increase the cost or decrease the desirability of implementing the project and which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Our facilities are subject to risks associated with mold and other indoor building contaminants. From time to time our operations are subject to inspections by environmental regulators or other regulatory agencies. We are also subject to worker health and safety requirements.. We are subject to regulation and liability for i) the presence or release of regulated materials at, on or emanating from properties we now or formerly own or lease and operate and  ii) newly discovered environmental conditions or contamination associated at or from any of our properties. In the future, we may also be subject to greater liability a result of changes in environmental laws and regulations or their enforcement. We believe our operations are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety requirements; however, our compliance efforts do not eliminate the risk that we may be held liable for remediation costs, incur fines or be subject to claims for damages. The amount of any such liability for remediation costs, fines, or damages or remediation costs may be material which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. If we lose key management, operations, or sales and marketing personnel, or if we experience high employee turnover, we could experience reduced revenues, an inefficient operating environment and diversion of management resources.. Our success depends largely on the continued contributions of our key management, administration, operations, and sales and marketing personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace. With the exception of certain of our executive officers, we generally do not have employment or non-compete agreements with our key personnel. If one or more members of our senior management or key professionals were to resign, the loss of personnel could result in loss of sales, an inefficient operating environment and diversion of management resources, which would have a negative effect on our business. We do not maintain \"key man\" insurance policies on any of our personnel.. We rely on the collective experience of our employees, particularly in resort operations, to ensure we continuously evaluate and adapt to new ski industry trends in order remain competitive. Although we are not generally dependent on any one employee involved in our operations, we may experience significantly high employee turnover. If we are not able to replace departing employees with new employees who have comparable skills and capabilities, our operations could suffer and we may be unable to meet our customers' expectations or adapt to new trends in our industry, and may not be able to compete effectively.. We are subject to risks related to certain payment methods.. We accept payments using a variety of methods, including credit cards, debit cards and gift cards. As we offer new payment options to consumers, we may be subject to additional regulations, compliance requirements and fraud. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower profitability. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules and certification requirements, including the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult for us to comply. As our business changes, we may also be subject to different rules under existing standards, which may require new assessments that involve costs above what we currently pay for compliance. If we are not in compliance with all applicable rules and certification requirements or if the volume of fraud in our transactions rises to certain levels, we may be subject to fines, higher transaction fees or loss of or restrictions on our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from customers. If any of these events were to occur it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Our business requires significant capital expenditures to maintain and improve our ski resorts, and our strategy to expand our business through acquisitions requires the availability of additional sources of capital. The lack of available funds for capital expenditures or acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our operating strategy and business.. 17. Sustaining our successful financial performance depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and improve the quality of our facilities, products, and management resources, which requires significant capital expenditures. Although we believe capital expenditures above maintenance levels can be deferred to address cash flow or other constraints, these expenditures cannot be deferred for extended periods without adversely affecting our competitive position and financial performance. Historically, a key element of our strategy has been attracting additional skiers through investment in on-mountain capital improvements, and these improvements are generally capital intensive. We may finance resort capital expenditures through internally generated funds, available lines of credit or proceeds from the issuance of debt or equity. There can be no assurance that sufficient funds will be available to fund these capital expenditures or that these capital expenditures will sustain our customer base, attract additional skiers or generate additional revenues. To the extent we are unable to obtain the necessary funds, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Future acquisitions may require the use of internally generated funds, available lines of credit and the proceeds from the offering of additional debt or equity financing. The use of debt to finance acquisitions would increase our leverage position and the use of equity to finance acquisitions would be dilutive to our existing stockholders. Any decline in our perceived credit-worthiness associated with an acquisition could adversely affect our ability to borrow and result in more restrictive borrowing terms. As a result, we may not be able to complete acquisitions or strategic transactions in the future to the same extent as in the past, or at all. These and other factors could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability at acquired operations or realize other anticipated benefits of an acquisition and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We are dependent on significant infrastructure and equipment.. Our infrastructure and equipment, including snowmaking equipment and ski lifts, are costly to maintain, repair and replace and are susceptible to unscheduled maintenance. Much of our infrastructure and equipment will eventually need to be replaced or significantly repaired or modernized, which could result in interruptions to our business, particularly during our peak periods. In certain cases, the cost of infrastructure or equipment repair or replacement may not be justified by the revenues at the applicable resort which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. The high fixed cost structure of ski resort operations can result in significantly lower operating income if revenues decline.. The cost structure of ski resort operations has a significant fixed component with variable expenses including, but not limited to, resort related fees, credit card fees, retail/rental cost of sales and labor, ski school labor and dining operations. Any material declines in the economy, elevated geopolitical uncertainties and/or significant changes in historical snowfall patterns, as well as other factors, could adversely affect revenue and operating costs. As such, our operating income, profits and cash flows may be materially reduced due to declines in revenue given our relatively high fixed cost structure. In addition, increases in wages and other labor costs, energy, healthcare, insurance, transportation, fuel, and other expenses included in our fixed cost structure may also reduce our margins, profits and cash flows.. We generate a significant portion of our annual revenues from Mount Snow and Hunter Mountain. Conditions or events that could negatively impact Mount Snow or Hunter Mountain could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Revenue generated from Mount Snow and Hunter Mountain in fiscal 2018 represented approximately 54.5% of our total fiscal 2018 revenues. Mount Snow and Hunter Mountain, like our other resorts, are subject to various risks such as those described in this Report, including natural disasters, changes in consumer behavior, competition from other area ski resorts, and regional weather. The occurrence of such events or conditions that negatively impact Mount Snow and Hunter Mountain would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We lease all or some of the land underlying certain of our resorts from third parties.. We lease some or all of our property at Paoli Peaks and Mad River Mountain from third parties. Our lease at Paoli Peaks terminates in 2078 and our lease at Mad River Mountain terminates in 2034. Combined, these resorts contributed 6.6% of our total revenues for the year ended April 30, 2018. The termination of either of these leases or our inability to renew these. 18. leases on commercial terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. A substantial portion of the skiable terrain at certain of our resorts is used under the terms of Forest Service permits.. A substantial portion of the skiable terrain at our Attitash and Mount Snow resorts and all of the land underlying the Wildcat Mountain resort is federal land that is used under the terms of permits with the U.S. Forest Service. The permits give the U.S. Forest Service the right to review and comment on the location, design, and construction of improvements in the permit area and on certain other operational matters. The permits can also be terminated or modified by the U.S. Forest Service for specific compelling reasons or in the event we fail to perform any of our obligations under the permits. Otherwise, the permits may be renewed. A termination or modification of any of our permits could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Currently, our permits expire as follows:. <U+FEFF> \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t<U+FEFF> \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\tSki Resort \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\tSpecial Use Permit Expiration Date \t\t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\tAttitash \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\tApril 4, 2047 \t\t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\tMount Snow \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\tApril 4, 2047 \t\t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\tWildcat Mountain \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\tNovember 18, 2050. We depend on a seasonal workforce and have experienced a shrinking labor pool in some of the areas we operate our business.. Our resort operations are highly dependent on a large seasonal workforce, and in recent years we have experienced a shrinking labor pool in some of the areas where we operate resorts. We recruit year-round to fill thousands of seasonal staffing needs each season and work to manage seasonal wages and the timing of the hiring process to ensure the appropriate workforce is in place. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to recruit and hire adequate personnel as the business requires, and material increases in the cost of securing our workforce may be possible in the future. Increased seasonal wages or an inadequate workforce could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We are subject to risks associated with our workforce.. In addition, we are subject to various federal and state laws governing matters such as minimum wage requirements, overtime compensation and other working conditions, healthcare benefits, discrimination and family and medical leave. Immigration law reform could also impact our workforce because we recruit and hire foreign nationals as part of our seasonal workforce. If our labor-related expenses increase, our operating expenses could increase which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. A natural disaster could damage our property and reduce the number of guests who visit our resorts.. A severe natural disaster, such as a forest fire, flood or landslide, may interrupt our operations, damage our properties and reduce the number of guests who visit our resorts in affected areas. Damage to our properties could take a long time to repair and there is no guarantee that we would have adequate insurance to cover the costs of repair or the expense of the interruption to our business. Furthermore, such a disaster may interrupt or impede access to our affected properties or require evacuations and may cause visits to our affected properties to decrease for an indefinite period. The ability to attract visitors to our resorts is also influenced by the aesthetics and natural beauty of the outdoor environment where our resorts are located. A severe forest fire or other severe impacts from naturally occurring events could negatively impact the natural beauty of our resorts and have a long-term negative impact on our overall guest visitation as it would take several years for the environment to recover.. We are subject to litigation in the ordinary course of business because of the nature of our business.. The safety of guests and employees is a major concern and focus for all managers and employees of our company. By the nature of our activities, we are exposed to the risk that guests or employees may be involved in accidents during the use, operation or maintenance of ski lifts, rides and other resort facilities. As a result, we are, from time to time, subject to various. 19. asserted or unasserted legal proceedings and claims. Any such claims, regardless of merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to defend and could divert management's attention and resources. While we believe we have adequate insurance coverage, the outcome of all current or future litigation may nonetheless have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. If we fail to manage future growth effectively, our business could be harmed.. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, periods of rapid growth. This growth has placed significant demands on our management, operational and financial infrastructure. To manage growth effectively, we must continue to improve and enhance our managerial, operational and financial controls, train and manage our employees, and expand our employee base. We must also manage new and existing relationships with vendors, business partners and other third parties. These activities require significant expenditures and allocation of valuable management resources. If we fail to maintain the efficiency of our organization as we grow, our profit margins may decrease, and we may be unable to achieve our business objectives.. A disruption in our water supply would impact our snowmaking capabilities and impact our operations.. Our operations are heavily dependent upon our access to adequate supplies of water with which to make snow and otherwise conduct our operations. Our resorts in New Hampshire and Vermont are subject to state laws and regulations regarding our use of water. There can be no assurance that applicable laws and regulations will not change in a manner that could have an adverse effect on our operations, or that important permits, licenses, or agreements will be renewed on terms as favorable as the current terms, or at all. Any failure to have access to adequate water supplies to support our current operations and future operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure and Ownership of Our Common Stock. We may not be able to pay dividends on our common stock.. We declared our first quarterly cash dividend on our common stock in January 2015 and briefly suspended dividend payments as a result of operating performance, debt agreement covenant compliance, and liquidity considerations.  We resumed quarterly dividend payments in February 2017. We cannot assure you that the current dividend rate will be sustained or that we will pay dividends in the future. The declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common stock will be at the sole discretion of our board of directors and will depend on many factors, including our results of operations, financial condition, capital requirements, restrictions on dividends set by the terms of our Series A Preferred Stock, economic conditions and other factors.  The board may suspend the payment of dividends on common stock at any time and for any reason if it deems such action to be in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders. If we do not pay dividends, the price of our common stock must appreciate for investors to realize a gain on their investment. This appreciation may not occur and our stock may depreciate in value.. We are a holding company with no operations of our own and depend on our subsidiaries for cash.. We are a holding company with no operations of our own. Accordingly, our working capital needs and our ability to service debt and pay dividends on our common and preferred stock is dependent on the distribution of cash from our subsidiaries. Each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity, and, under certain circumstances, legal, contractual and debt covenant restrictions contained in existing financing agreements may limit or prevent any of them from making distributions to us. In addition, future financing or other arrangements entered into by our subsidiaries could limit their ability to make distributions to us. In the event that we do not receive adequate distributions from our subsidiaries, we may not be able to meet our working capital needs and may be unable to service our debt or make dividend payments on our common or preferred stock.. Cancellation of or modifications to the Immigrant Investor Program, or our failure to successfully raise capital under the program's guidelines, could adversely affect our ability to execute our growth strategy and improve our resorts.. We have funded certain capital projects, and may fund other future capital projects, by raising funds under the Immigrant Investor Program (the \"EB-5 Program\"), administered by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (the \"USCIS\") pursuant to the Immigration and Nationality Act. This program was created to stimulate the U.S. economy through the creation of jobs and capital investments in U.S. companies by foreign investors.. 20. Under the EB-5 Program, an annual allocation of immigrant visas (''EB-5 Visas'') is made available for qualified individuals seeking lawful permanent resident status on the basis of their investment in a new commercial enterprise that generates jobs. Recently, the demand for the annual allocation of EB-5 Visas has exceeded the supply, and potential investors may be subject to lengthy waiting periods for such visas. These waiting periods could exceed five to ten years. Furthermore, raising funds pursuant to the EB-5 Program could become significantly more difficult if the primary EB-5 investor markets in Asia are impacted by economic downturn or military conflict, or if the USCIS subjects EB-5 investor applicants to lengthy adjudications.. The EB-5 Program is not a permanent program and has been extended on a year-to-year basis. The continuity of the EB-5 Program is dependent on future action by Congress and is subject to political uncertainty, and Congress may materially modify aspects of the EB-5 Program in ways that would make it unfeasible for us to rely on EB-5 financing for future financing.. We cannot guarantee we will be able to rely on the EB-5 Program as a potential source of funding to implement future plans to improve our resorts. In this case, conventional financing options, such as loans, may prove too costly or may not be available, which could result in cancellation of our development and improvement plans and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We rely on one primary lender and its affiliates as the source for the majority of our financing and credit.. We have historically relied on one lender and its affiliates, EPR Properties (\"EPR\"), for substantially all of our financing and credit needs, including financing relating to our resort acquisitions. As of April 30, 2018, amounts due to EPR totaled $114.2 million. EPR is an entertainment, entertainment-related, recreation and specialty real estate company with its common stock listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol \"EPR\". In the event EPR is not available to extend us credit, we may not be able to obtain financing on terms as favorable to us as those under our arrangements with EPR. As a result, we may be subject to more stringent financial covenants and higher interest rates.. EPR has an option to purchase, or assume our leases relating to, certain of our ski resorts. If EPR exercises this option, we would incur significant tax obligations.. Pursuant to the terms of our borrowing agreements with EPR, we have entered into an option agreement (the \"Option Agreement\") that provides EPR with a purchase option on our Boston Mills, Brandywine, Jack Frost, Big Boulder and Alpine Valley ski resorts. The purchase option is exercisable as to any one or more of such properties on the maturity date of the applicable underlying promissory note at a purchase price to be calculated in accordance with the terms of the Option Agreement. Upon the closing of any sale under the Option Agreement, EPR will enter into an agreement with the Company or one of its subsidiaries for the lease of each such acquired property for an initial term of 20 years, plus options to extend the lease for two additional periods of 10 years each.. We have a low adjusted tax basis in these properties as we have taken tax depreciation since the time they were acquired. As a result, we would realize significant taxable gains on the sale of the properties if EPR exercises a purchase option, and we may be required to pay substantial income taxes on taxable gains from any such sale.. Under certain circumstances, our insurance coverage may not cover all possible losses, and we may not be able to renew our insurance policies on favorable terms, or at all.. Although we maintain various property and casualty insurance policies, our insurance policies do not cover all types of losses and liabilities, and our levels of coverage may not be sufficient to cover the ultimate cost of claims. If we are held liable for amounts exceeding the limits of our insurance coverage or for claims outside the scope of our coverage, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. In addition, we may not be able to renew our current insurance policies on favorable terms, or at all. Our ability to obtain future insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates could be adversely affected if we or other companies within or outside our industry sustain significant losses or make significant insurance claims.. We qualify as an emerging growth company and a non-accelerated filer under Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. As a result, we are not required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act to have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and are able to use extended transition periods for complying with new or revised accounting standards.. 21. Our management is required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act to make a formal assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm, however, is not required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting until such time as we are no longer either i) an emerging growth company or ii) a non-accelerated filer as defined by Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. This lack of attestation by our independent registered accounting firm may increase the risk that we fail to detect and remedy any weakness of deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. Additionally, at such time as we are subject to the auditor attestation requirements, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed or operating. If we are unable to establish and maintain effective internal controls it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Until such time as we no longer qualify as an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of extended transition periods for complying with new or revised accounting standards and reduced disclosure options. As a result, our financial statements and disclosures may not be comparable to other companies who do not qualify as an emerging growth company.. The issuance of shares of our Series A Preferred Stock reduces the relative voting power of holders of our common stock, may dilute the ownership of such holders and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. As holders of our Series A Preferred Stock are entitled to vote, on an as-converted basis, together with holders of our common stock on all matters submitted to a vote of the holders of our common stock, the issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock effectively reduces the relative voting power of the holders of our common stock.  Current stockholders have no preemptive rights to purchase any securities in order to maintain their proportionate interest in the Company.. In addition, the conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock to common stock would dilute the ownership interest of existing holders of our common stock, and any sales in the public market, following registration pursuant to the registration rights granted to the Investor, of the common stock issuable upon the conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock and/or exercise of the Warrants could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. Sales by holders of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock.. The holders of shares of our Series A Preferred Stock may exercise significant influence over us.. The Investor and its affiliates currently own approximately 10.0% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Assuming the conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock and exercise of the Warrants also owned by the Investor, the Investor would own 36.7% of the outstanding shares of our common stock.  Additional pre-emptive rights and rights of first offer in the documents governing the Private Placement of our Series A Preferred Stock may allow the Investor to maintain its ownership position.  Holders of our Series A Preferred Stock are entitled to vote, on an as-converted basis, together with holders of our common stock on all matters submitted to a vote of the holders of our common stock.  As a result, the holders of shares of the Series A Preferred Stock have the ability to significantly influence the outcome of any matter submitted for the vote of the holders of our common stock.. Under the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock, the Series A Preferred Stock generally ranks, with respect to the liquidation, dividends and redemption, senior to other securities.  The Stockholders' Agreement provides that, so long as the Investor beneficially owns, on an as-converted basis, at least 11.4% of the outstanding  equity securities of the Company,  the Investor's approval is required in order for the Company or any subsidiary to i) materially change the nature of its business from owning, operating and managing ski resorts or ii) acquire or dispose of any resorts, assets or properties for aggregate consideration equal to or greater than 30% of the enterprise value of the Company and its subsidiaries.. The Stockholders' Agreement grants to the Investor the right to nominate a director so long as it beneficially owns, on an as-converted basis, at least 20% of the outstanding equity securities of the Company, subject to satisfaction of reasonable qualification standards and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee approval of the nominee.  Notwithstanding the fact that all directors will be subject to fiduciary duties to us and to applicable law, the interests of the directors designated by the Investor may differ from the interests of our security holders as a whole or of our other directors.. Our Series A Preferred Stock has rights, preferences and privileges that are not held by, and are preferential to, the rights of our common stockholders, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and may result in the interests of the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock differing from those of our common stockholders.. 22. The holders of our Series A Preferred Stock have the right to receive a liquidation preference entitling them to be paid out of our assets available for distribution to stockholders before any payment may be made to holders of any other class or series of capital stock as well as a preferential right to receive cumulative dividends at the rate of 8% per annum on the liquidation value of $1,000 per share. The holders of our Series A Preferred Stock also have certain redemption and conversion rights, and there are limitations on the Company's ability to redeem other securities.. These dividend obligations could impact our liquidity and reduce the amount of cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, growth opportunities, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes. Our obligations to the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock could also limit our ability to obtain additional financing or increase our borrowing costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  The preferential rights could also result in divergent interests between the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock and holders of our common stock.. Provisions in our amended and restated articles of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws and Missouri law might discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock.. Provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation approved by stockholders in connection with the Private Placement, our amended and restated bylaws and Missouri law might discourage, delay, or prevent a merger, acquisition, or other change in control that stockholders consider favorable, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for shares of our common stock. These provisions might also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe additional authorized shares of common stock and preferred stock could be used to dilute the stock ownership or voting rights of persons seeking to obtain control of us or could be issued to persons allied with the board of directors or management and thereby have the effect of making it more difficult to remove directors or members of management by diluting the stock ownership or voting rights of persons seeking to effect such a removal..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe blank check preferred stock could be used by the board of directors for adoption of a stockholder rights plan or \"poison pill.\".  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tExisting provisions of our governing documents, including the limitations on director removal, the threshold vote required for stockholders to call a special meeting of the stockholders or act by written consent, the advance notice required for stockholder proposals and director nominations, the limitations on the increase in the number of directors and the inability of stockholders to amend the bylaws, may have anti-takeover effects..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tSimilarly, applicable provisions of Missouri law, such as the business combination and control share acquisition statutes, may have anti-takeover effects, making it more difficult for or preventing a third party from acquiring control of us or changing our board of directors and management. These provisions may also have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or delaying changes in control of us or in our management.. The existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of the Company, thereby reducing the likelihood that our stockholders could receive a premium for our common stock in an acquisition.. We do not believe the issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock, the Warrants and the common stock issuable upon conversion or exercise thereof will have a significant impact on any attempt to gain control of the Company. It is possible, however, that the existence of a single stockholder with a significant ownership percentage and director nomination rights could discourage third parties from attempting to gain control. It should be noted that any action taken by the Company to discourage an attempt to acquire control of the Company might result in stockholders not being able to participate in any possible premiums which might be obtained in the absence of anti-takeover provisions. Any transaction which may be so discouraged or avoided could be a transaction that the Company's common stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. However, the board of directors has a fiduciary duty to act in the best interests of the Company's stockholders at all times.. 23. Pursuant to executive employment agreements between the Company and certain of its executive officers (the \"Executives\"), each Executive is entitled to change of control payments in the event of a termination of Executive's employment by the Company without cause or notice by the Company of non-renewal of the agreement, within one year of a change in control of the Company. A \"change in control\" includes an event or series of events by which any person or group becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 35% or more of the equity securities of the Company entitled to vote for members of the board of directors or equivalent governing body of the Company on a fully-diluted basis.  Upon the exercise of warrants to purchase additional shares of common stock, the Investor may become the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 36.7% or more of the equity securities of the Company entitled to vote for members of the board of directors, thereby triggering the change in control provisions in the Executive Employment Agreements.. The market price of our common stock has been and will likely continue to be volatile, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. In addition to the factors discussed above and elsewhere in this Report, factors that could cause fluctuations in the market price of our common stock include the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tquarterly variations in our results of operations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tresults of operations that vary from those of our competitors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tannouncements by us, our competitors or our vendors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tannouncements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfluctuations in trading volume;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfuture sales of our common stock; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in investor sentiment toward the stock of ski resort and recreational services companies in general.. Furthermore, the stock market has experienced extreme volatility that in some cases has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of market volatility, stockholders have instituted securities class action litigation. If we were involved in securities litigation, it could be a substantial cost and divert resources and the attention of executive management from our business regardless of the outcome of such litigation.. Our principal stockholders may exert substantial influence over us and may exercise their control in a manner adverse to your interests.. As a group, three of our executive officers (the \"Management Stockholders\"), own approximately 16% of our outstanding common stock. Furthermore, as the sole holder of our Series A Preferred Stock, the Investor is entitled to vote, on an as-converted basis, together with holders of our common stock on all matters submitted to a vote of the common stockholders. On an as-converted basis and assuming the exercise of the Warrants, the Investor would own approximately 36.7% of the common stock. As a result, the Management Stockholders together with the Investor will be able to exercise a significant level of control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment to our amended and restated articles of incorporation and approval of significant corporate transactions. This ability could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of the Company or changes in management, and will make the approval of certain transactions difficult or impossible without the support of these stockholders. It is possible that these persons will exercise control over us in a manner adverse to your interests.. Future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline.. If our existing stockholders sell, or indicate an intention to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decline. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell additional equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. All of the outstanding shares of our common stock are freely tradable in the public market, except for any shares held by our affiliates as defined in Rule 144 of the Securities Act.. 24. We also registered all 559,296 shares of common stock that we may issue under the Peak Resorts, Inc. 2014 Equity Incentive Plan that has been adopted by the board of directors and stockholders.  These shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to vesting conditions.  As of April 30, 2018, 403,630 shares remained available for issuance.. <U+FEFF>. <U+FEFF>"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
