[1] "ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS. The following sets forth several risk factors that may affect the Company's financial condition or results of operations.. Changes in interest rates could reduce our income, cash flows and asset values.. Our income and cash flows and the value of our assets depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates we earn on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates we pay on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings.  These rates are highly sensitive to many factors which are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence not only the interest we receive on our loans and investment securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings but will also affect our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits and the value of our investment portfolio.  If the rate of interest we pay on our deposits and other borrowings increases more than the rate of interest we earn on our loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore our earnings, could be adversely affected.  Our earnings also could be adversely affected if the rates on our loans and other investments fall more quickly than those on our deposits and other borrowings.. Economic conditions either nationally or locally in areas in which our operations are concentrated may adversely affect our business.. Deterioration in local, regional, national, or global economic conditions could cause us to experience a reduction in deposits and new loans, an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans, and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans, all of which could adversely affect our performance and financial condition. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services locally. Therefore, we are particularly vulnerable to adverse local economic conditions.. Our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected if our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to absorb actual losses or if we are required to increase our allowance.. Despite our underwriting criteria, we may experience loan delinquencies and losses.  In order to absorb losses associated with nonperforming loans, we maintain an allowance for loan losses based on, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions, and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality.  Determination of the allowance inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes.  At any time there are likely to be loans in our portfolio that will result in losses but that have not been identified as nonperforming or potential problem credits. We cannot be sure that we will be able to identify deteriorating credits before they become nonperforming assets or that we will be able to limit losses on those loans that are identified. We may be required to increase our allowance for loan losses for any of several reasons.  Federal regulators, in reviewing our loan portfolio as part of a regulatory examination, may request that we increase our allowance for loan losses.  Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in our allowance.  In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed our allowance for loan losses, we will need additional increases in our allowance for loan losses.  Any increases in our allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in our net income and, possibly, our capital, and may materially affect our results of operations in the period in which the allowance is increased.. Many of our loans are secured, in whole or in part, with real estate collateral which is subject to declines in value.. In addition to considering the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of a borrower, we often secure our loans with real estate collateral. Real estate values and the real estate market are generally affected by, among other things, changes in local, regional or national economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies, and acts of nature.  The real estate collateral provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower.  If real estate prices in our markets decline, the value of the. 9. real estate collateral securing our loans could be reduced. If we are required to liquidate real estate collateral securing loans during a period of reduced real estate values to satisfy the debt, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected.. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security.. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business.  Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer-relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur; or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability; any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We face the risk of cyber-attack to our computer systems.. Our computer systems, software and networks have been and will continue to be vulnerable to unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data (including confidential client information), account takeovers, unavailability of service, computer viruses or other malicious code, cyber-attacks and other events. These threats may derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of employees or third parties, or may result from accidental technological failure. If one or more of these events occurs, it could result in the disclosure of confidential client information, damage to our reputation with our clients and the market, additional costs to us (such as repairing systems or adding new personnel or protection technologies), regulatory penalties and financial losses, to both us and our clients and customers. Such events could also cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations (such as the lack of availability of our online banking system), as well as the operations of our clients, customers or other third parties. Although we maintain safeguards to protect against these risks, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer losses in the future that may be material in amount.. Competition may decrease our growth or profits.. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors, including commercial banks, savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks, credit unions, consumer finance companies, factoring companies, leasing companies, insurance companies, and money market mutual funds.  There is very strong competition among financial services providers in our principal service area.  Our competitors may have greater resources, higher lending limits, or larger branch systems than we do.  Accordingly, they may be able to offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can.. In addition, some of the financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on federally insured financial institutions.  As a result, those non-bank competitors may be able to access funding and provide various services more easily or at less cost than we can, adversely affecting our ability to compete effectively.. The value of certain investment securities is volatile and future declines or other-than-temporary impairments could materially adversely affect our future earnings and regulatory capital.. Continued volatility in the market value for certain of our investment securities, whether caused by changes in market perceptions of credit risk, as reflected in the expected market yield of the security, or actual defaults in the portfolio could result in significant fluctuations in the value of the securities. This could have a material adverse impact on our accumulated other comprehensive income/loss and shareholders' equity depending on the direction of the fluctuations. Furthermore, future downgrades or defaults in these securities could result in future classifications of investment securities as other than temporarily impaired. This could have a material impact on our future earnings.. We may be adversely affected by government regulation.. The banking industry is heavily regulated. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect the federal deposit insurance funds and depositors, not shareholders. Changes in the laws, regulations, and regulatory practices affecting the banking industry may increase our costs of doing business or otherwise adversely affect us and create competitive advantages for others. Regulations affecting banks and financial services companies undergo continuous change, and we cannot predict the ultimate effect of these changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability or financial condition.. 10. In response to the financial crisis that commenced in 2008, Congress has taken actions that are intended to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in financial institutions, and the FDIC has taken actions to increase insurance coverage on deposit accounts.  The Dodd-Frank Act provides for the creation of a consumer protection division at the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System that will have broad authority to issue regulations governing the services and products we provide consumers.  This additional regulation could increase our compliance costs and otherwise adversely impact our operations.  That legislation also contains provisions that, over time, could result in higher regulatory capital requirements (including through the implementation of the capital standards of Basel III) and loan loss provisions for the Banks, and may increase interest expense due to the ability granted in July 2011 to pay interest on all demand deposits.  In addition, there have been proposals made by members of Congress and others that would reduce the amount delinquent borrowers are otherwise contractually obligated to pay under their mortgage loans and limit an institution's ability to foreclose on mortgage collateral.  These proposals could result in credit losses or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor.. The potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations, or changes in policy, affecting many aspects of our operations, including capital levels, lending and funding practices, and liquidity standards.  New laws and regulations may increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business and otherwise affect our operations, and may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, the fees we can charge and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability.. We rely on our management and other key personnel, and the loss of any of them may adversely affect our operations.. We are and will continue to be dependent upon the services of our executive management team. In addition, we will continue to depend on our ability to retain and recruit key commercial loan officers. The unexpected loss of services of any key management personnel or commercial loan officers could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition because of their skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience, and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel.. Environmental liability associated with lending activities could result in losses.. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing our loans.  If hazardous substances were discovered on any of these properties, we could be liable to governmental entities or third parties for the costs of remediation of the hazard, as well as for personal injury and property damage.  Many environmental laws can impose liability regardless of whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the contamination.  In addition, if we arrange for the disposal of hazardous or toxic substances at another site, we may be liable for the costs of cleaning up and removing those substances from the site even if we neither own nor operate the disposal site.  Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially limit use of properties we acquire through foreclosure, reduce their value or limit our ability to sell them in the event of a default on the loans they secure.  In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability.. Failure to implement new technologies in our operations may adversely affect our growth or profits.. The market for financial services, including banking services and consumer finance services, is increasingly affected by advances in technology, including developments in telecommunications, data processing, computers, automation, Internet-based banking, and telebanking. Our ability to compete successfully in our markets may depend on the extent to which we are able to exploit such technological changes. However, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to properly or timely anticipate or implement such technologies or properly train our staff to use such technologies.  Any failure to adapt to new technologies could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or operating results.. The Company is required to adopt the FASB's accounting standard which requires measurement of certain financial assets (including loans) using the current expected credit losses (CECL) beginning in calendar year 2020.. Current GAAP requires an incurred loss methodology for recognizing credit losses that delays recognition until it is probable a loss has been incurred. The FASB's amendment replaces the current incurred loss methodology with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonableness and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates. The Company is in the process of evaluating the impact of the adoption of this guidance on the Company's financial statements; however, it is anticipated that the allowance will increase upon the adoption of CECL and that the increased allowance level will have the effect of decreasing shareholders' equity and the Company's and Bank's regulatory capital ratios.. 11. The effects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 on our business have not yet been fully analyzed and could have an adverse effect on our net income.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 was enacted into law.  The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act makes significant changes to U.S. corporate income tax laws including a decrease in the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018.  As a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the Company recorded an additional provisional income tax expense of $2,724,000 in the fourth quarter of 2017 due to a remeasurement of the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities.  Reasonable estimates were made based on the Company's analysis of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.  This provisional amount may be adjusted in future periods during 2018 when additional information is obtained.  Additional information that may affect the Company's provisional amount would include further clarification and guidance on how the IRS will implement tax reform, further clarification and guidance on how state taxing authorities will implement tax reform and the related effect on the Company's state income tax returns, completion of the Company's 2017 tax return filings, and the potential for additional guidance from the SEC or the FASB related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.  The Company cannot determine at this time the full effects of the Tax Act on its business and financial results.. An investment in our common stock is not an insured deposit.. Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund, or by any other public or private entity.  Investment in our common stock is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company."
