[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Business. We face significant competition from other gaming and entertainment operations.. The gaming industry is characterized by an increasingly high degree of competition among a large number of participants, including riverboat casinos, dockside casinos, land - based casinos, video lottery, gaming at taverns in certain states, such as Illinois as well as the potential legalization in Indiana, sweepstakes and poker machines not located in casinos, the potential for increased sports betting and fantasy sports, Native American gaming and other forms of gaming in the U.S. Furthermore, competition from internet lotteries, sweepstakes, and other internet wagering services, which allow their customers to wager on a wide variety of sporting events and play Las Vegas - style casino games from home or in non - casino settings, could divert customers from our properties and thus adversely affect our business. Such internet wagering services are often illegal under federal law but operate from overseas locations, and are nevertheless sometimes accessible to domestic gamblers. Currently, there are proposals that would legalize internet poker and other varieties of internet gaming in a number of states and at the federal level. Several states, such as Nevada, New Jersey and Delaware, have enacted legislation authorizing intrastate internet gaming and internet gaming operations have begun in these states. Expansion of internet gaming in other jurisdictions (both legal and illegal) could further compete with our traditional operations, which could have an adverse impact on our business and result of operations.. In a broader sense, our gaming operations face competition from all manner of leisure and entertainment activities, including: shopping; athletic events; television and movies; concerts; and travel. Legalized gaming is currently permitted in various forms throughout the U.S., in several Canadian provinces and on various lands taken into trust for the benefit of certain Native Americans in the U.S. and Canada. Other jurisdictions, including states adjacent to states in which we currently have facilities (such as in Ohio and Maryland), have recently legalized, implemented and expanded gaming. In addition, established gaming jurisdictions could award additional gaming licenses or permit the expansion or relocation of existing gaming operations. New, relocated or expanded operations by other persons could increase competition for our gaming operations and could have a material adverse impact on us.. Gaming competition is intense in most of the markets where we operate. Recently, there has been additional  significant competition in our markets as a result of the upgrading or expansion of facilities by existing market  participants, the entrance of new gaming participants into a market or legislative changes. As competing properties and new markets are opened, our operating results may be negatively impacted.  For example, new casinos and racinos  have opened that compete  in the same market as our Lawrenceburg property, namely the opening  of Belterra  Park  in May 2014, our own Dayton facility in August  2014, and Horseshoe Casino in Cincinnati  in March  2013; there  is significantly increased competition to our Charles  Town property  from the casino complex at the Arundel  Mills mall in Anne  Arundel,  Maryland,  the opening  of Maryland  Live! and Horseshoe Casino Baltimore  in Baltimore,  Maryland  in 2014 and the opening  of MGM  National  Harbor casino in Prince George's County, Maryland  in December 2016, which also competes  to a lesser extent  with Hollywood Casino  at Penn  National Race Course; the opening  of our joint venture  casino project  in Kansas in February 2012, which impacted  Argosy Casino Riverside; and the potential opening  of a tribal casino in Taunton, Massachusetts (the  construction is currently on hold following a judicial ruling in favor of the Taunton property  owners who contended that  the federal  government  erred  in placing reservation land in trust  for the Mashpee  Wampanoag tribe)  and the expected openings  of MGM Springfield  in Western Massachusetts in late 2018 and Wynn Everett  in Eastern  Massachusetts in mid-2019 are anticipated to negatively impact  our Plainridge  Park  Casino.  Hollywood Casino Aurora and Hollywood Casino Joliet have also been  negatively impacted  by the proliferation of VGTs at numerous locations  throughout the state of Illinois, which are in the vicinity of our. 22. Table of Contents. operations. In addition, some of our direct competitors in certain markets may have superior facilities and/or operating conditions.  Pennsylvania recently enacted legislation that will expand gaming in the state which will cause additional competition for Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course and Hollywood Gaming at Mahoning Valley Race Course.  We expect each existing or future market in which we participate to be highly competitive.  The competitive position of each of our casino properties is discussed in detail in the subsection entitled \"Competition\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. We may face disruption and other difficulties in integrating and managing facilities we have recently developed or acquired, or may develop or acquire in the future.. We expect to continue pursuing expansion opportunities, and we regularly evaluate opportunities for acquisition and development of new properties, which evaluations may include discussions and the review of confidential information after the execution of nondisclosure agreements with potential acquisition candidates, some of which may be potentially significant in relation to our size.. We could face significant challenges in managing and integrating our expanded or combined operations and any other properties we may develop or acquire, particularly in new competitive markets. The integration of more significant properties we may develop or acquire (such as those anticipated in the Pinnacle transaction) will require the dedication of management resources that may temporarily divert attention from our day - to - day business. The process of integrating properties that we may acquire also could interrupt the activities of those businesses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the development of new properties may involve construction, local opposition, regulatory, legal and competitive risks as well as the risks attendant to partnership deals on these development opportunities. In particular, in projects where we team up with a joint venture partner, if we cannot reach agreement with such partners, or our relationships otherwise deteriorate, we could face significant increased costs and delays. Local opposition can delay or increase the anticipated cost of a project. Finally, given the competitive nature of these types of limited license opportunities, litigation is possible.. Management of new properties, especially in new geographic areas and business lines may require that we increase our management resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage the combined operations effectively or realize any of the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions or development projects. We also cannot assure you that if acquisitions are completed, that the acquired businesses will generate returns consistent with our expectations.. Our ability to achieve our objectives in connection with any acquisition we may consummate may be highly dependent on, among other things, our ability to retain the senior level property management teams of such acquisition candidates. If, for any reason, we are unable to retain these management teams following such acquisitions or if we fail to attract new capable executives, our operations after consummation of such acquisitions could be materially adversely affected.. The occurrence of some or all of the above described events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may face risks related to our ability to receive regulatory approvals required to complete, or other delays or impediments to completing certain of our acquisitions.. Our growth is fueled, in part, by the acquisition of existing gaming, racing, and development properties. In addition to standard closing conditions, our acquisitions are often conditioned on the receipt of regulatory approvals and other hurdles that create uncertainty and could increase costs. Such delays could significantly reduce the benefits to us of such acquisitions and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 23. Table of Contents. We face a number of challenges prior to opening new or upgraded gaming facilities.. No assurance can be given that, when we endeavor to open new or upgraded gaming facilities, the expected timetables for opening such facilities will be met in light of the uncertainties inherent in the development of the regulatory framework, construction, the licensing process, legislative action and litigation. Delays in opening new or upgraded facilities could lead to increased costs and delays in receiving anticipated revenues with respect to such facilities and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are required to pay a significant portion of our cash flows as financing payments under the Master Lease, which could adversely affect our ability to fund our operations and growth and limit our ability to react to competitive and economic changes.. We are required to pay more than half of our cash flow from operations to GLPI pursuant to and subject to the terms and conditions of the Master Lease. As a result of this commitment, our ability to fund our own operations or development projects, raise capital, make acquisitions and otherwise respond to competitive and economic changes may be adversely affected. For example, our obligations under the Master Lease may:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness and to obtain additional indebtedness;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincrease our vulnerability to general or regional adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our business;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequire us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to making lease payments, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trestrict our ability to raise capital, make acquisitions, divestitures and engage in other significant transactions.. Any of the above listed factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Most of our gaming and racing facilities are leased and could experience risks associated with leased property, including risks relating to lease termination, lease extensions, charges and our relationship with GLPI, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations.. We lease 20 of the gaming and racing facilities we operate pursuant to the Master Lease. The Master Lease provides that GLPI may terminate the lease for a number of reasons, including, subject to applicable cure periods, the default in any payment of rent, taxes or other payment obligations or the breach of any other covenant or agreement in the lease. Termination of the Master Lease could result in a default under our debt agreements and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. Moreover, as a lessee we do not completely control the land and improvements underlying our operations and GLPI as lessor could take certain actions to disrupt our rights in the facilities leased under the Master Lease which are beyond our control. If GLPI chose to disrupt our use either permanently or for a significant period of time, then the value of our assets could be impaired and our business and operations could be adversely affected. There can also be no assurance that we will be able to comply with our. 24. Table of Contents. obligations under the Master Lease in the future. In addition, if GLPI has financial, operational, regulatory or other challenges there can be no assurance that GLPI will be able to comply with its obligations under its agreements with us.. The Master Lease is commonly known as a triple - net lease. Accordingly, in addition to rent, we are required to pay among other things the following: (1) all facility maintenance, (2) all insurance required in connection with the leased properties and the business conducted on the leased properties, (3) taxes levied on or with respect to the leased properties (other than taxes on the income of the lessor) and (4) all utilities and other services necessary or appropriate for the leased properties and the business conducted on the leased properties. We are responsible for incurring the costs described in the preceding sentence notwithstanding the fact that many of the benefits received in exchange for such costs shall in part accrue to GLPI as owner of the associated facilities. In addition, if some of our leased facilities should prove to be unprofitable, we could remain obligated for lease payments and other obligations under the Master Lease even if we decided to withdraw from those locations. We could incur special charges relating to the closing of such facilities including lease termination costs, impairment charges and other special charges that would reduce our net income and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may face reductions in discretionary consumer spending as a result of an economic downturn.. Our net revenues are highly dependent upon the volume and spending levels of customers at properties we manage and as such our business has been adversely impacted by economic downturns. Decreases in discretionary consumer spending brought about by weakened general economic conditions such as, but not limited to, lackluster recoveries from recessions, high unemployment levels, higher income taxes, low levels of consumer confidence, weakness in the housing market, cultural and demographic changes, and increased stock market volatility may negatively impact our revenues and operating cash flow.. We face extensive regulation from gaming and other regulatory authorities.. Licensing requirements.  As managers of gaming and pari - mutuel wagering facilities, we are subject to extensive state, local and, in Canada, provincial regulation. In addition, the Hollywood Casino Jamul-San  Diego is subject to the oversight of the National Indian Gaming Commission, which administers the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988 with respect to the terms and conditions of management contracts and the operation of casinos and all gaming on land held in trust for Native American tribes in the U.S. State, local and provincial authorities require us and our subsidiaries to demonstrate suitability to obtain and retain various licenses and require that we have registrations, permits and approvals to conduct gaming operations. These regulatory authorities have broad discretion, and may, for any reason set forth in the applicable legislation, rules and regulations, limit, condition, suspend, fail to renew or revoke a license or registration to conduct gaming operations or prevent us from owning the securities of any of our gaming subsidiaries or prevent another person from owning an equity interest in us. Like all gaming operators in the jurisdictions in which we operate, we must periodically apply to renew our gaming licenses or registrations and have the suitability of certain of our directors, officers and employees approved. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such renewals or approvals. Regulatory authorities have input into our operations, for instance, hours of operation, location or relocation of a facility, and numbers and types of machines. Regulators may also levy substantial fines against or seize our assets or the assets of our subsidiaries or the people involved in violating gaming laws or regulations. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have demonstrated suitability to obtain and have obtained all governmental licenses, registrations, permits and approvals necessary for us to operate our existing gaming and pari-mutuel facilities. We can give no assurance to you that we will be able to retain those existing licenses or demonstrate suitability to obtain any new licenses, registrations, permits or approvals.  In addition, the loss of a license in one jurisdiction could trigger the loss of a license or affect our eligibility for a license in another jurisdiction. As we expand our gaming operations in our existing jurisdictions or to new areas, we may have to meet additional suitability requirements and obtain additional licenses, registrations, permits and approvals from gaming authorities in these jurisdictions. The approval process can be time-consuming and costly and we cannot be sure that we will be successful.. 25. Table of Contents. Gaming authorities in the U.S. generally can require that any beneficial owner of our securities file an application for a finding of suitability. If a gaming authority requires a record or beneficial owner of our securities to file a suitability application, the owner must generally apply for a finding of suitability within 30 days or at an earlier time prescribed by the gaming authority. The gaming authority has the power to investigate such an owner's suitability and the owner must pay all costs of the investigation. If the owner is found unsuitable, then the owner may be required by law to dispose of our securities.. Potential changes in legislation and regulation of our operations.  Regulations governing the conduct of gaming activities and the obligations of gaming companies in any jurisdiction in which we have or in the future may have gaming operations are subject to change and could impose additional operating, financial, competitive or other burdens on the way we conduct our business.. Moreover, legislation to prohibit, limit or add burdens to our business may be introduced in the future in states where gaming has been legalized. In addition, from time to time, legislators and special interest groups have proposed legislation that would expand, restrict or prevent gaming operations or which may otherwise adversely impact our operations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Any expansion of gaming or restriction on or prohibition of our gaming operations or enactment of other adverse regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. The passage of the Smoke Free Illinois Act which banned smoking in casinos, adversely affected revenues and operating results at our Illinois properties at the time it was implemented in January 2008. In Pennsylvania, we are currently permitted to allow smoking on only up to 50% of the gaming floor of our Grantville facility and smoking is banned in all other indoor areas. Additionally, in July 2012, a state statute in Indiana became effective that imposes a state wide smoking ban in specified businesses, buildings, public places and other specified locations. The statute specifically exempts riverboat casinos, and all other gaming facilities in Indiana, from the smoking ban. However, the statute allows local government to enact a more restrictive smoking ban than the state statute and also leaves in place any more restrictive local legislation that exists as of the effective date of the statute. To date, our facility in Lawrenceburg, Indiana is not subject to any such local legislation. If additional smoking bans are enacted within jurisdictions where we operate or seek to do business, our business could be adversely affected.. Taxation and fees.  We believe that the prospect of significant revenue is one of the primary reasons that jurisdictions permit legalized gaming. As a result, gaming companies are typically subject to significant revenue based taxes and fees in addition to normal federal, state, local and provincial income taxes, and such taxes and fees are subject to increase at any time. We pay substantial taxes and fees with respect to our operations. From time to time, federal, state, local and provincial legislators and officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, affecting the gaming industry. In addition, worsening economic conditions could intensify the efforts of state and local governments to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes, property taxes, and/or authorizing additional gaming facilities each subject to payment of a new license fee. It is not possible to determine with certainty the likelihood of changes in such laws or in the administration of such laws. Such changes, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The large number of state and local governments with significant current or projected budget deficits makes it more likely that those governments that currently permit gaming will seek to fund such deficits with new or increased gaming taxes and/or property taxes, and worsening economic conditions could intensify those efforts. Any material increase, or the adoption of additional taxes or fees, could have a material adverse effect on our future financial results.. Compliance with other laws.  We are also subject to a variety of other rules and regulations, including zoning, environmental, construction and land - use laws and regulations governing the serving of alcoholic beverages. If we are not in compliance with these laws, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various reporting and anti - money laundering regulations. Any violation of anti - money laundering laws or regulations, or any accusations of. 26. Table of Contents. money laundering or regulatory investigations into possible money laundering activities, by any of our properties, employees or customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We have certain properties that generate a significant percentage of our net revenues.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, our facility in Charles Town, West Virginia generated approximately 12% of our net revenues. Our ability to meet our operating and debt service requirements is dependent, in part, upon the continued success of this facility. The operations at this facility and any of our other facilities could be adversely affected by numerous factors, including those described in these \"Risk Factors\" as well as more specifically those described below:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trisks related to local and regional economic and competitive conditions, such as a decline in the number of visitors to a facility, a downturn in the overall economy in the market, a decrease in consumer spending on gaming activities in the market or an increase in competition within and outside the state in which each property is located;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in local and state governmental laws and regulations (including changes in laws and regulations affecting gaming operations and taxes) applicable to a facility;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\timpeded access to a facility due to weather, road construction or closures of primary access routes;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twork stoppages, organizing drives and other labor problems as well as issues arising in connection with agreements with horsemen and pari - mutuel clerks; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe occurrence of natural disasters or other adverse regional weather trends.. In addition, although to a lesser extent than our facility in Charles Town, West Virginia, we anticipate meaningful contributions from Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course and Hollywood Casino St. Louis and our properties in Ohio. Therefore, our results will be dependent on the regional economies and competitive landscapes at these locations as well.. We are or may become involved in legal proceedings that, if adversely adjudicated or settled, could impact our financial condition.. From time to time, we are defendants in various lawsuits relating to matters incidental to our business. The nature of our business subjects us to the risk of lawsuits filed by customers, past and present employees, competitors, business partners and others in the ordinary course of business (particularly in the case of class actions). As with all litigation, no assurance can be provided as to the outcome of these matters and, in general, litigation can be expensive and time consuming. We may not be successful in these lawsuits, and, especially with increasing class action claims in our industry, could result in costs, settlements or damages that could significantly impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on our key personnel.. We are highly dependent on the services of our executive management team and other members of our senior management team. Our ability to attract and retain key personnel is affected by the competitiveness of our compensation packages and the other terms and conditions of employment, our continued ability to compete effectively against other gaming companies and our growth prospects. The loss of the services of any members of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 27. Table of Contents. Inclement weather and other casualty events could seriously disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The operations of our facilities are subject to disruptions or reduced patronage as a result of severe weather conditions, natural disasters and other casualty events. Because many of our gaming operations are located on or adjacent to bodies of water, these facilities are subject to risks in addition to those associated with land - based casinos, including loss of service due to casualty, forces of nature, mechanical failure, extended or extraordinary maintenance, flood, hurricane or other severe weather conditions. Many of our casinos operate in areas which are subject to periodic flooding that has caused us to experience decreased attendance and increased operating expenses. Any flood or other severe weather condition could lead to the loss of use of a casino facility for an extended period. For instance, Hollywood Casino Toledo was closed for brief periods in 2014, 2015 and 2016 due to harsh winter conditions and Argosy Casino Alton was closed for several days in December 2015, January 2016 and May 2017 due to flooding. Even if adverse weather conditions do not require the closure of our facilities, those conditions make it more difficult for our customers to reach our properties for an extended period of time, which can have an adverse impact on our operations.  Casualty events such as, the tragic shootings that occurred on the Las Vegas Strip on October 1, 2017 that affect tourism also impact our business.  Following the October 2017 tragedy, operations at Tropicana Las Vegas were adversely effected.. The extent to which we can recover under our insurance policies for damages sustained at our properties in the event of future inclement weather and other casualty events could adversely affect our business.. We maintain significant property insurance, including business interruption coverage, for these and other properties. However, there can be no assurances that we will be fully or promptly compensated for losses at any of our facilities in the event of future inclement weather or casualty events. In addition, our property insurance coverage is in an amount that may be significantly less than the expected and actual replacement cost of rebuilding certain facilities \"as was\" if there was a total loss. The Master Lease requires us, in the event of a casualty event, to rebuild a leased property to substantially the same condition as existed immediately before such casualty event. We renew our insurance policies (other than our builder's risk insurance) on an annual basis. The cost of coverage may become so material that we may need to further reduce our policy limits, further increase our deductibles, or agree to certain exclusions from our coverage.. Our gaming operations rely heavily on technology services and an uninterrupted supply of electrical power. Our security systems and all of our slot machines are controlled by computers and reliant on electrical power to operate.. Any unscheduled disruption in our technology services or interruption in the supply of electrical power could result in an immediate, and possibly substantial, loss of revenues due to a shutdown of our gaming operations. Such interruptions may occur as a result of, for example, a failure of our information technology or related systems, catastrophic events or rolling blackouts. Our systems are also vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial - of - service attacks and similar events.. Our information technology and other systems are subject to cyber security risk including misappropriation of employee information, customer information or other breaches of information security.. We rely on information technology and other systems to manage our business and employee data and maintain and transmit customers' personal and financial information, credit card settlements, credit card funds transmissions, mailing lists and reservations information. Our collection of such data is subject to extensive regulation by private groups, such as the payment card industry, as well as governmental authorities, including gaming authorities.  Privacy regulations continue to evolve and we have taken, and will continue to take, steps to comply by implementing processes. 28. Table of Contents. designed to safeguard our business, employee and customers' confidential and personal information. In addition, our security measures are reviewed and evaluated regularly.  However, our information and processes are subject to the ever-changing threat of compromised security, in the form of a risk of potential breach, system failure, computer virus, or unauthorized or fraudulent use by customers, company employees, or employees of third party vendors. The steps we take to deter and mitigate the risks of breaches may not be successful, and any resulting compromise or loss of data or systems could adversely impact operations or regulatory compliance and could result in remedial expenses, fines, litigation, disclosures, and loss of reputation, potentially impacting our financial results.. Further, as cyber-attacks continue to evolve, we may incur significant costs in our attempts to modify or enhance our protective measures or investigate or remediate any vulnerability.  Increased instances of cyber-attacks may also have a negative  reputational impact on us and our properties that may result in a loss of customer confidence and, as a result,  may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Our operations in certain jurisdictions depend on management agreements and/or leases with third parties and local governments.. Our operations in several jurisdictions depend on land leases and/or management and development agreements with third parties and local governments. If we, or if GLPI in the case of leases pursuant to which we are the sub-lessee, are unable to renew these leases and agreements on satisfactory terms as they expire or disputes arise regarding the terms of these agreements, our business may be disrupted and, in the event of disruptions in multiple jurisdictions, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, in the Province of Ontario, through CHC Casinos, our indirectly wholly owned subsidiary, we manage Casino Rama, a full service gaming and entertainment facility, on behalf of the OLG, an agency of the Province of Ontario. In June 2014, we signed an agreement to extend the management agreement for Casino Rama on a month-to-month basis with a 60-day notice period for up to a maximum period of forty-eight months. The OLG is exploring bids for new operating contracts and privatization in Ontario, including at Casino Rama.  As a result, we expect our management contract with the OLG to end shortly after June 30, 2018.. We depend on agreements with our horsemen and pari - mutuel clerks. The Federal Interstate Horseracing Act of 1978, as amended, the West Virginia Race Horse Industry Reform Act and the Pennsylvania Racing Act require that, in order to simulcast races, we have certain agreements with the horse owners and trainers at our West Virginia and Pennsylvania racetracks. In addition, West Virginia requires applicants seeking to renew their gaming license to demonstrate they have an agreement regarding the proceeds of the gaming machines with a representative of a majority of the horse owners and trainers, a representative of a majority of the pari-mutuel clerks and a representative of a majority of the horse breeders.. At Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races, we have an agreement with the Charles Town Horsemen's Benevolent and Protective Association through June 18, 2018.  Additionally, the pari-mutuel clerks at Charles Town are represented under a collective bargaining agreement with the West Virginia Union of Mutuel Clerks, which expired on December 31, 2010 and has been extended on a month-to-month basis.. The Company's agreement with the Pennsylvania Horsemen's Benevolent and Protective Association at Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course was renewed through January 31, 2019. The Company has an agreement with Laborers' International Union of North America (LIUNA) Local 108, regarding both on-track and off-track pari-mutuel clerks and admission staff which expired in December 2016 and a new contract was negotiated and, once signed, will run through December 1, 2021. In August 2015, the Company entered into a three year collective bargaining agreement with the International Chapter of Horseshoers and Allied Equine Trades Local 947.. Our agreement with the Maine Harness Horsemen Association at Bangor Raceway is in effect through the. 29. Table of Contents. conclusion of the 2018 racing season. In March of 2014, Hollywood Gaming at Mahoning Valley Race Course entered into an agreement with the Ohio Horsemen's Benevolent and Protective Association. The term is for a period of ten years from the September 2014 commencement of video lottery terminal operations at that facility. Hollywood Gaming at Dayton Raceway entered into a ten-year agreement with the Ohio Harness Horsemen's Association for racing at Hollywood Gaming at Dayton Raceway in September of 2015.   In January 2014 Plainridge Park Casino entered into an agreement with the Harness Horsemen's Association of New England which expires December 31, 2018.. In certain jurisdictions where we operate pari-mutuel wagering, if we fail to present evidence of an agreement with the horsemen at a track, we may not be permitted to conduct live racing and export and import simulcasting at that track and OTWs and, in West Virginia, our video lottery license may not be renewed.  In addition, our annual simulcast export agreements are subject to the horsemen's approval under the Federal Interstate Horseracing Act of 1978, as amended.   Some simulcast import agreements require horsemen approval depending on state law.  If we fail to renew or modify existing agreements on satisfactory terms, this failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A deterioration in the performance of the Jamul Tribal facility could result in additional charges on our loan that we extended to the Jamul Indian Village Development Corporation.. We have made substantial loans to the Jamul Indian Village Development Corporation (\"JIVDC\"), an instrumentality of the Jamul Tribe, for the construction, development, equipment and operations of the Hollywood Casino Jamul-San Diego. Our subsidiary, San Diego Gaming Ventures, LLC (\"SDGV\"), provided a $98 million term loan C facility to the project. Furthermore, we provided additional delayed draw term loans and a limited completion guarantee for certain post-opening construction costs related to roadway improvements.  As of December 31, 2017, these future funding commitments total approximately $29 million.  All of our loans and any future funding obligations are subordinated to the other substantial debt on the property.  Our only material recourse for collection of indebtedness from the JIVDC or for money damages for breach or wrongful termination of a management, development, consulting or financing agreement is from positive cash flow, if any, from casino operations or from the sale of our loan to a third party.  Penn recorded charges of $89.8 million related to the loan and related loan commitments in 2017. We may realize little or no value for our loan which could result in additional charges of up to $27.9 million which represents our loan and loan commitments net of reserves at December 31, 2017.  Additionally, we may incur unexpected costs related to the termination and transition of our management contract with the Jamul Tribe.. 30. Table of Contents. Our planned capital expenditures may not result in our expected improvements in our business.. We regularly expend capital to construct, maintain and renovate our properties to remain competitive, maintain the value and brand standards of our properties and comply with applicable laws and regulations.  Our ability to realize the expected returns on our capital investments is dependent on a number of factors, including, general economic conditions; changes to construction plans and specifications; delays in obtaining or inability to obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals; disputes with contractors; disruptions to our business caused by construction; and other unanticipated circumstances or cost increases.. While we believe that the overall budgets for our planned capital expenditures are reasonable, these costs are estimates and the actual costs may be higher than expected.  In addition, we can provide no assurance that these investments will be sufficient or that we will realize our expected returns on our capital investments, or any returns at all. A failure to realize our expected returns on capital investments could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations or an outright sale of the loan to a third party.. The concentration and evolution of the slot machine manufacturing industry could impose additional costs on us.. A majority of our revenues are attributable to slot machines and related systems operated by us at our gaming facilities. It is important, for competitive reasons, that we offer the most popular and up to date slot machine games with the latest technology to our customers.. A substantial majority of the slot machines sold in the U.S. in recent years were manufactured by a few select companies, and there has been extensive consolidation activity within the gaming equipment sector in recent years, including the acquisitions of Multimedia Games, Inc. by Global Cash Access, Bally Technologies, Inc. (which had acquired SHFL Entertainment, Inc.) and WMS Industries Inc. by Scientific Games Corporation and International Gaming Technologies by GTECH Holdings.. In recent years, slot machine manufacturers have frequently refused to sell slot machines featuring the most popular games, instead requiring participation lease arrangements in order to acquire the machines. Participation slot machine leasing arrangements typically require the payment of a fixed daily rental. Such agreements may also include a percentage payment of coin - in or net win. Generally, a participation lease is substantially more expensive over the long term than the cost to purchase a new machine.. For competitive reasons, we may be forced to purchase new slot machines or enter into participation lease arrangements that are more expensive than our current costs associated with the continued operation of our existing slot machines. If the newer slot machines do not result in sufficient incremental revenues to offset the increased investment and participation lease costs, it could hurt our profitability.. We have announced several initiatives in the social gaming space, which is a new line of business for us in a rapidly evolving and highly competitive market. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively or that our new initiatives will be successful.. We have announced several initiatives in the social gaming space, including the 2016 acquisition of Rocket Speed, and expect to continue to invest in and market social gaming and other mobile gaming platforms to our customers in casinos and beyond and to explore other acquisitions in the space. Social gaming is a new line of business for us, which makes it difficult to assess its future prospects. Our products will compete in a rapidly evolving and highly competitive market against an increasing number of competitors, including Playtika, Zynga and slot manufacturers. Given the open nature of the development and distribution of games for electronic devices, our business will also compete with developers and distributors who are able to create and launch games and other content for these devices using relatively limited resources and with relatively limited start-up time or expertise. We have limited experience. 31. Table of Contents. operating in this rapidly evolving marketplace and may not be able to compete effectively.. In addition, our ability to be successful with our social gaming platform is dependent on numerous factors beyond our control that affect the social and mobile gaming industry and the online gaming industry in the United States, including the occurrence and manner of legalization of online real money gaming in the United States beyond Nevada, Delaware and New Jersey; changes to the policies of social gaming distribution channels, including Apple and Google, changes in consumer demographics and public tastes and preferences; changing laws and regulations affecting social and mobile games; the reaction of regulatory bodies to social gaming initiatives by holders of gaming licenses; the availability and popularity of other forms of entertainment; any challenges to the intellectual property rights underlying our games; and outages and disruptions of our online services that may harm our business.. Our social gaming initiatives will result in increased operating expense and increased time and attention from our management. In addition, we may be particularly dependent on key personnel in our interactive business unit. We believe our social games are complementary to our current operations and offer additional avenues of access and interaction for our customers, and, the social gaming business depends on developing and publishing games that consumers will download and spend time and money on consistently.  We continue to invest in research and development, analytics and marketing to attract and retain customers for our social games. Our success depends, in part, on unpredictable factors beyond our control, including consumer preferences, competing games and other forms of entertainment, and the emergence of new platforms. Our inability to ultimately monetize our investment in social gaming initiatives could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Our social gaming initiatives may result in increased risk of cyber-attack, hacking, or other security breaches, which could harm our reputation and competitive position and which could result in regulatory actions against us or in other penalties.. As our social gaming business grows, we will face increased cyber risks and threats that seek to damage, disrupt or gain access to our networks, our products and services, and supporting infrastructure. Such cyber risks and threats, including to virtual currencies that may be used in the games, may be difficult to detect. Any failure to prevent or mitigate security breaches or cyber risk could result in interruptions to the services we provide, degrade the user experience, and cause our users to lose confidence in our products. The unauthorized access, acquisition or disclosure of consumer information could compel us to comply with disparate breach notification laws and otherwise subject us to proceedings by governmental entities or others and substantial legal and financial liability. Our key business partners also face these same risks with respect to consumer information they collect, and data security breaches with respect to such information could cause reputational harm to them and negatively impact our ability to offer our products and services through their platforms. This could harm our business and reputation, disrupt our relationships with partners and diminish our competitive position.. The success of our VGT operations in Illinois is dependent on our ability to renew our contracts and expand the business.. On September 1, 2015, we completed our acquisition of Prairie State Gaming, one of the largest VGT operators in Illinois and subsequently have completed several smaller acquisitions of VGT operators in the state. We face competition from other VGT operators, as well as from casinos, hotels, taverns and other entertainment venues.  Our ability to compete successfully in this new line of business depends on our ability to retain existing customers and secure new establishments, both of which are dependent on the level of service and variety of products that we are able to offer to our customers. VGT contracts are renewable at the option of the owner of the applicable bar and retail gaming establishments and, as our contracts expire, we will be subject to competition for renewals. In addition, VGT operations in Illinois are subject to approval by local municipalities, and therefore our ability to retain and expand our VGT business depends, in part, on such approvals. In addition, there is a risk that the market for VGTs in Illinois could become oversaturated. If we are unable to retain our existing customers or their results suffer as a result of competition. 32. Table of Contents. or because the market becomes oversaturated or if certain municipalities in Illinois elect to prohibit VGTs, our business and operations could be adversely impacted.. It is unclear what long-term impact our business structure will have on our key business relationships and our ability to compete with other gaming operators.. As a result of the completed Spin-Off, we were the first gaming operator that leases the majority of its properties from a single lessor under a master lease arrangement. As a result, it is difficult to predict whether and to what extent our relationship with GLPI, including any actual or perceived conflicts of interest on the part of our overlapping directors, will affect our relationships with suppliers, customers, regulators and our ability to compete with other gaming operators that are not subject to a master lease arrangement with a single lessor.. Work stoppages, organizing drives and other labor problems could negatively impact our future profits.. Some of our employees are currently represented by labor unions. A lengthy strike or other work stoppages at any of our casino properties or construction projects could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Given the large number of employees, labor unions are making a concerted effort to recruit more employees in the gaming industry. We cannot provide any assurance that we will not experience additional and more successful union organization activity in the future.. We are subject to environmental laws and potential exposure to environmental liabilities.. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern our operations, including emissions and discharges into the environment, and the handling and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous substances and wastes. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could result in costs for corrective action, penalties or the imposition of other liabilities or restrictions. From time to time, we have incurred and are incurring costs and obligations for correcting environmental noncompliance matters. For example, portions of Tropicana Las Vegas are known to contain asbestos as well as other environmental conditions, which may include the presence of mold. The environmental conditions may require remediation in isolated areas. The extent of such potential conditions cannot be determined definitively. To date, none of these matters have had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations; however, there can be no assurance that such matters will not have such an effect in the future.. We also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and clean-up responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under certain of these laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of property may be liable for the costs of remediating contaminated soil or groundwater on or from its property, without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or caused, the contamination, as well as incur liability to third parties impacted by such contamination. The presence of contamination, or failure to remediate it properly, may adversely affect our ability to use, sell or rent property. Under our contractual arrangements with GLPI, including the Master Lease, we will generally be responsible for both past and future environmental liabilities associated with our gaming operations, notwithstanding ownership of the underlying real property having been transferred to GLPI. Furthermore, we are aware that there is or may have been soil or groundwater contamination at certain of our properties resulting from current or former operations. By way of further example, portions of Tropicana Las Vegas are known to contain asbestos as well as other environmental conditions, which may include the presence of mold. The environmental conditions may require remediation in isolated areas. The extent of such potential conditions cannot be determined definitely, and may result in additional expense in the event that additional or currently unknown conditions are detected.. Additionally, certain of the gaming chips used at many gaming properties, including some of ours, have been found to contain some level of lead. Analysis by third parties has indicated the normal handling of the chips does not create a health hazard. We have disposed of a majority of these gaming chips. To date, none of these matters or other. 33. Table of Contents. matters arising under environmental laws has had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations; however, there can be no assurance that such matters will not have such an effect in the future.. Risks Related to the Anticipated Acquisition of Pinnacle. The transactions contemplated by the merger agreement with Pinnacle are subject to conditions, including certain conditions that may not be satisfied, or completed on a timely basis, if at all. Failure to complete the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement and related transaction agreements could have material and adverse effects on us.. Completion of our proposed acquisition of Pinnacle is subject to a number of conditions, including the approval by our shareholders and Pinnacle's stockholders and certain antitrust and state gaming approvals, which make the completion and timing of the completion of the transactions uncertain.  If the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement and related transaction agreements with Boyd Gaming Corporation (\"Boyd\") and GLPI are not completed, or are not completed on a timely basis our business may be adversely affected and, without realizing any of the benefits of having completed the transactions, we will be subject to a number of risks, costs and expenses, including the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe will be required to pay our costs relating to the transactions, such as legal, accounting, financial advisory and printing fees, whether or not the transactions are completed;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tif the merger agreement is terminated as a result of the failure to obtain the requisite antitrust and gaming law approvals, Penn will be forced to pay Pinnacle a termination fee of $125 million;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tin some circumstances, upon termination of the merger agreement, Penn or Pinnacle will be required to pay a $60 million termination fee to the other party;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tif we are unable to close the merger prior to November 1, 2018, we will be required to pay an additional $0.01 per share per day until closing to Pinnacle stockholders;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe diversion of time and resources committed by our management to matters relating to the proposed transactions that could otherwise have been devoted to pursuing other opportunities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe market price of our common stock could decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the transactions will be completed;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tif the merger is not completed by October 31, 2018, assuming that Penn does not elect to extend this deadline and the deadline is not otherwise automatically extended as contemplated in the merger agreement, either Penn or Pinnacle may terminate the merger agreement; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the merger.. We will be subject to business uncertainties while our proposed acquisition of Pinnacle and related transaction with Boyd and GLPI are pending, which could adversely affect our business.. It is possible that certain persons with whom we have a business relationship may delay or defer business decisions or might decide to seek to terminate, change or renegotiate their relationships with us as a result of the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement with Pinnacle and related agreements with Boyd and GLPI, which could negatively affect our revenues, earnings and cash flows, as well as the market price of our common stock, regardless of whether the proposed transactions are completed.. 34. Table of Contents. In addition, under the terms of the merger agreement, we are subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to the closing, which may adversely affect our ability to execute certain of our business strategies, including the ability in certain cases to acquire or dispose of assets or repurchase shares of our common stock.  Such limitations could negatively affect our business and operations prior to the completion of the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement.. If our proposed acquisition of Pinnacle and related transactions with Boyd and GLPI are completed, we may not achieve the intended benefits and the transactions may disrupt our current plans or operations.. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate Pinnacle's assets or otherwise realize the expected benefits of the acquisition and related transactions with Boyd and GLPI. In addition, the merger is not subject to a financing condition, which means that we would be required to complete the merger even if financing is not available or is available only on terms other than those currently anticipated.  Our inability to finance the acquisition on attractive terms could result in increased costs, dilution to our shareholders and/or have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  In addition, our business may be negatively affected following the transaction if we are unable to effectively manage our expanded operations.  The integration will require significant time and focus from our management following the transaction.  Additionally, consummating the transactions could disrupt current plans and operations, which could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives.. Risks Related to the Spin - Off. If the Spin - Off, together with certain related transactions, does not qualify as a transaction that is generally tax - free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we could be subject to significant tax liabilities.. We received a private letter ruling (the \"IRS Ruling\") from the IRS substantially to the effect that, among other things, the Spin - Off, together with certain related transactions, will qualify as a transaction that is generally tax - free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and/or 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"). The IRS Ruling does not address certain requirements for tax - free treatment of the Spin - Off under Section 355, and we received from our tax advisors a tax opinion substantially to the effect that, with respect to such requirements on which the IRS will not rule, such requirements will be satisfied. The IRS Ruling, and the tax opinions that we received from our tax advisors, relied on and will rely on, among other things, certain representations, assumptions and undertakings, including those relating to the past and future conduct of GLPI's business, and the IRS Ruling and the opinions would not be valid if such representations, assumptions and undertakings were incorrect in any material respect.. Notwithstanding the IRS Ruling and the tax opinions, the IRS could determine the Spin - Off should be treated as a taxable transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes if it determines any of the representations, assumptions or undertakings that were included in the request for the IRS Ruling are false or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinions that are not covered by the IRS Ruling.. If the Spin - Off fails to qualify for tax - free treatment, in general, we would be subject to tax as if we had sold the GLPI common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value.. Under the tax matters agreement that GLPI entered into with us, GLPI generally is required to indemnify us against any tax resulting from the Spin - Off to the extent that such tax resulted from (1) an acquisition of all or a portion of the equity securities or assets of GLPI, whether by merger or otherwise, (2) other actions or failures to act by GLPI, or (3) any of GLPI's representations or undertakings being incorrect or violated. GLPI's indemnification obligations to Penn and its subsidiaries, officers and directors will not be limited by any maximum amount. If GLPI is required to indemnify Penn or such other persons under the circumstance set forth in the tax matters agreement, GLPI may be. 35. Table of Contents. subject to substantial liabilities and there can be no assurance that GLPI will be able to satisfy such indemnification obligations.. On September 27, 2017 the Internal Revenue Service finalized the audit examination of the 2013 U.S. federal income tax return with no adjustments related to the spin-off transaction including the tax-free treatment.  Although the 2013 examination is finalized, the statute of limitation was extended to June 30, 2018.. Peter M. Carlino, our Chairman, and David A. Handler, one of our directors, may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their positions at GLPI.. Peter M. Carlino serves as our Chairman and as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of GLPI. In addition, David A. Handler, one of our directors, is also a director of GLPI. While we have procedures in place to address such situations, these overlapping positions could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when our or GLPI's management and directors pursue the same corporate opportunities, such as greenfield development opportunities or potential acquisition targets, or face decisions that could have different implications for us and GLPI. Further, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between us and GLPI (or its subsidiaries) regarding the terms of the agreements governing the separation and the relationship, between us and GLPI, such as under the Master Lease. Potential conflicts of interest could also arise if we and GLPI enter into any commercial or other adverse arrangements with each other in the future.. In connection with the Spin - Off, GLPI agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. However, there can be no assurance that these indemnities will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that GLPI's ability to satisfy its indemnification obligation will not be impaired in the future.. Pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, GLPI has agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. However, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that GLPI agreed to retain, and there can be no assurance that GLPI will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from GLPI any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses while seeking recovery from GLPI.. A court could deem the distribution in the Spin - Off to be a fraudulent conveyance and void the transaction or impose substantial liabilities upon us.. If the transaction is challenged by a third party, a court could deem the distribution of GLPI common shares or certain internal restructuring transactions undertaken by us in connection with the Spin - Off to be a fraudulent conveyance or transfer. Fraudulent conveyances or transfers are defined to include transfers made or obligations incurred with the actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud current or future creditors or transfers made or obligations incurred for less than reasonably equivalent value when the debtor was insolvent, or that rendered the debtor insolvent, inadequately capitalized or unable to pay its debts as they become due. In such circumstances, a court could void the transactions or impose substantial liabilities upon us, which could adversely affect our financial condition and our results of operations. Among other things, the court could require our shareholders to return to us some or all of the shares of our common stock issued in the distribution or require us to fund liabilities of other companies involved in the restructuring transactions for the benefit of creditors. Whether a transaction is a fraudulent conveyance or transfer will vary depending upon the laws of the applicable jurisdiction.. If we and GLPI are treated by the IRS as being under common control, both we and GLPI could experience adverse tax consequences.. If we and GLPI are treated by the IRS as being under common control, the IRS will be authorized to reallocate income and deductions between us and GLPI to reflect arm's length terms. If the IRS were to successfully establish that rents paid by us to GLPI are excessive, (1) we would be denied a deduction for the excessive portion and (2) we would. 36. Table of Contents. be subject to a penalty on the portion deemed excessive, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. In addition, our shareholders would be deemed to have received a distribution that was then contributed to the capital of GLPI.. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness.. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness and a significant fixed annual lease payment to GLPI which will increase upon the closing of the merger with Pinnacle. Our substantial indebtedness and additional fixed costs via our Master Lease obligation could have important consequences to our financial health. For example, it could:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimit our ability to participate in multiple or large development projects, absent additional third party financing;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincrease our vulnerability to general or regional adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our business;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequire us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to satisfy our financing obligation and debt service, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tplace us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are not as highly leveraged;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tresult in an event of default if we fail to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness or fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our debt instruments, which event of default could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable and could permit certain of our lenders to foreclose on any of our assets securing such debt.. Any of the above listed factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The terms of our debt do not, and any future debt may not, fully prohibit us from incurring additional debt, including debt related to facilities we develop or acquire. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify.. Volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets and adverse changes in the global economy may negatively impact our revenues and our ability to access favorable financing terms.. While we intend to finance expansion and renovation projects with existing cash, cash flow from operations and borrowings under our senior secured credit facility, we may require additional financing to support our continued growth. However, depending on then current economic or capital market conditions, our access to capital may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Further, if adverse regional and national economic conditions persist or. 37. Table of Contents. worsen, we could experience decreased revenues from our operations attributable to decreases in consumer spending levels and could fail to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject under our existing indebtedness. Finally, our borrowing costs under our senior secured credit facility are tied to LIBOR. We currently have no hedges in place to mitigate the impact of higher LIBOR rates and as such significant increases in LIBOR could have a negative impact on our results of operations.. The availability and cost of financing could have an adverse effect on business.. We intend to finance some of our current and future expansion, development and renovation projects and acquisitions with cash flow from operations, borrowings under our senior secured credit facility and equity or debt financings. We are required by the Master Lease to, in the case of certain expansion projects, or may choose, in the case of other development projects, provide GLPI the right to provide the financing needed for such purposes. Depending on the state of the credit markets, if we are unable to finance our current or future projects, we could have to seek alternative financing, such as through selling assets, restructuring debt, increasing our reliance on equity financing or seeking additional joint venture partners. Depending on credit market conditions, alternative sources of funds may not be sufficient to finance our expansion, development and/or renovation, or such other financing may not be available on acceptable terms, in a timely manner or at all. In addition, our existing indebtedness contains restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness. If we are unable to secure additional financing, we could be forced to limit or suspend expansion, development and renovation projects and acquisitions, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The capacity under our revolving credit facility, which expires in 2022, has increased to $700 million via a bank group that is comprised of 12 large financial institutions with the top six institutions providing approximately 71% of the facility. If a large percentage of our lenders were to file for bankruptcy or otherwise default on their obligations to us, we could experience decreased levels of liquidity which could have a detrimental impact on our operations. There is no certainty that our lenders will continue to remain solvent or fund their respective obligations under our senior secured credit facility.. Our indebtedness imposes restrictive covenants on us that could limit our operations and lead to events of default if we do not comply with those covenants.. Our senior secured credit facility requires us, among other obligations, to maintain specified financial ratios and to satisfy certain financial tests, including interest coverage, senior secured net leverage and total net leverage ratios. In addition, our credit facility restricts, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness, incur guarantee obligations, repay certain other indebtedness or amend debt instruments, pay dividends, create liens on our assets, make investments, make acquisitions, engage in mergers or consolidations, engage in certain transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates or otherwise restrict corporate activities. In addition, the indenture governing our senior unsecured notes restricts, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness (excluding certain indebtedness under our credit facility), issue certain preferred stock, pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock or repurchase our capital stock, make certain investments, create liens on our assets to secure certain debt, enter into transactions with affiliates, merge or consolidate with another company, transfer and sell assets and designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries. A failure to comply with the restrictions contained in the documentation governing any of our indebtedness, termination of the Master Lease (subject to certain exceptions) or the occurrence of certain defaults under the Master Lease could lead to an event of default thereunder that could result in an acceleration of such indebtedness. Such acceleration would likely constitute an event of default under our other indebtedness, which event of default could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable and could permit certain of our lenders to foreclose on any of our assets securing such debt.. 38. Table of Contents. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash, which depends on many factors beyond our control.. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior secured credit facility in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs, including with respect to our indebtedness. We also may incur indebtedness related to facilities we develop or acquire in the future prior to generating cash flow from those facilities. If those facilities do not provide us with cash flow to service that indebtedness, we will need to rely on cash flow from our other properties, which would increase our leverage. In addition, if we consummate significant acquisitions in the future, our cash requirements may increase significantly. As we are required to satisfy amortization requirements under our senior secured credit facility or as other debt matures, we may also need to raise funds to refinance all or a portion of our debt. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our debt, including our senior secured credit facility, on attractive terms, commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our future operating performance and our ability to service, extend or refinance our debt will be subject to future economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
