[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, prospects, and the prevailing market price and performance of our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including the matters discussed below. Certain statements and information set forth herein, as well as other written or oral statements made from time to time by us or by our authorized officers on our behalf, constitute \"forward-looking statements\" within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as \"anticipate,\" \"believe,\" \"estimate,\" \"expect,\" \"intend,\" \"may,\" \"goal,\" \"plan,\" \"seek,\" \"project,\" \"continue,\" \"will,\" \"would,\" and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. We intend for our forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and we set forth this statement in order to comply with such safe harbor provisions. You should note that our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or when made and we undertake no duty or obligation to update or revise our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.. Although we believe that the expectations, plans, intentions, and projections reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, such statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that. 22. Table of Contents. may cause our actual results, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.. The risks, uncertainties, and other factors that our stockholders and prospective investors should consider include the following:. Macro-economic conditions. Our performance is impacted by general economic conditions overall, and in particular by economic conditions in the markets in which we operate. These economic conditions include: levels of new and used vehicle sales; availability of consumer credit; changes in consumer demand; consumer confidence levels; fuel prices; personal discretionary spending levels; interest rates; and unemployment rates. When the worldwide economy faltered and the worldwide automotive industry experienced significant operational and financial difficulties in 2008 and 2009, we were adversely affected, and we expect a similar relationship between general economic and industry conditions and our performance in the future. The intended departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union (\"Brexit\") noted below has generated significant macroeconomic challenges for the global economy. We cannot predict the future effect of Brexit on macroeconomic conditions or the automotive industry in particular, although any sustained drop in vehicle sales would adversely affect our operating results.. Vehicle manufacturers exercise significant control over us. Each of our new vehicle dealerships and distributor operations operate under franchise and other agreements with automotive manufacturers, commercial vehicle manufacturers, or related distributors. These agreements govern almost every aspect of the operation of our dealerships, and give manufacturers the discretion to terminate or not renew our franchise agreements for a variety of reasons, including certain events outside our control such as accumulation of our stock by third parties. Without franchise or distributor agreements, we would be unable to sell or distribute new vehicles or perform manufacturer authorized warranty service. If a significant number of our franchise agreements are terminated or are not renewed, or, with respect to our distributor operations, a competing distributor were introduced, we would be materially affected.. Brand reputation. Our businesses, and our commercial vehicle operations in particular as those are more concentrated with a particular manufacturer, are impacted by consumer demand and brand preference, including consumers' perception of the quality of those brands. A decline in the quality and brand reputation of the vehicles or other products we sell or distribute, as a result of events such as manufacturer recalls or legal proceedings, may adversely affect our business. If such events were to occur, the profitability of our business related to those manufacturers could be adversely affected. Beginning in 2015, Volkswagen AG received notice informing them that governmental agencies determined that certain Volkswagen and Audi diesel vehicles do not comply with applicable emissions regulations. There have been conflicting reports whether similar issues are present in other manufacturers' vehicles. While the Volkswagen and Audi diesel vehicles at issue represent a small portion of our total vehicle sales, should such non-compliance by the automotive manufacturers prove widespread or be present in a substantial number of vehicles we sell, our business could be adversely affected.. Restructuring, bankruptcy or other adverse conditions affecting a significant automotive manufacturer or supplier. Our success depends on the overall success of the automotive industry generally, and in particular on the success of the brands of vehicles that each of our dealerships sell. In 2017, revenue generated at our Audi/Volkswagen/Porsche/Bentley, BMW/MINI, Toyota/Lexus, and Mercedes-Benz/Sprinter/smart dealerships represented 24%, 23%,  13%, and 10%, respectively, of our total automotive dealership revenues. Significant adverse events, such as the earthquake and tsunami that struck Japan in March 2011 and resulted in reduced new vehicle production by Japanese automotive manufacturers in 2011, or other future events that interrupt vehicle or parts supply to our dealerships, would likely have a significant and adverse impact on the industry as a whole, including us, particularly if the events impact any of the manufacturers whose franchises generate a significant percentage of our revenue.. Manufacturer incentive programs. Vehicle manufacturers offer incentive programs intended to promote and support vehicle sales. These incentive programs include but are not limited to customer rebates, dealer incentives on new vehicles, manufacturer floor plan interest and advertising assistance, and warranties on new and used vehicles. A discontinuation of or change to the manufacturers' incentive programs may adversely impact vehicle demand, the value of new and used vehicles, and may materially affect our results of operations.. 23. Table of Contents. Our business is very competitive. We generally compete with: other franchised dealerships in our markets; used vehicle superstores, private market buyers and sellers of used vehicles; Internet-based vehicle sellers; national and local service and repair shops and parts retailers; with respect to commercial vehicles, distributors of similar products; and manufacturers in certain markets. Purchase decisions by consumers when shopping for a vehicle are extremely price sensitive. The level of competition in the market generally, coupled with increasing price transparency resulting from the use of the Internet by consumers, and pricing discounts to customers, can lead to lower selling prices and related profits. If there is a prolonged drop in retail prices, new vehicle sales are allowed to be made over the Internet without the involvement of franchised dealers, or if dealerships are able to effectively use the Internet to sell outside of their markets, our business could be materially adversely affected.. Evolving automotive and trucking industries. The automotive and trucking industries are predicted to experience rapid change. Shared vehicle services such as Uber and Lyft provide consumers with increased choice in their personal mobility options. The effect of these and similar mobility options on the retail automotive industry is uncertain, and may include lower levels of new vehicles sales, but with increasing miles driven, which could require additional demand for vehicle maintenance. In part due to regulatory requirements to limit vehicle emissions, many automotive manufacturers have announced plans to further electrify their vehicle offerings. We expect to continue to sell electric and hybrid gas/electric vehicles through our franchised dealerships, though if pure electric vehicles were widely accepted by customers, our service revenues may decline, as these vehicles may require less physical maintenance than gas and hybrid vehicles. In addition, technological advances are facilitating the development of driverless vehicles. The eventual timing of availability of driverless vehicles is uncertain due to regulatory requirements, additional technological requirements, and uncertain consumer acceptance of these vehicles. The effect of driverless vehicles on the automotive retail and trucking industries is uncertain and could include changes in the level of new and used vehicles sales, the price of new vehicles, and the role of franchised dealers, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business.. Property loss, business interruption or other liabilities. Our business is subject to substantial risk of loss due to: the significant concentration of property values, including vehicle and parts inventories, at our operating locations; claims by employees, customers and third parties for personal injury or property damage; and fines and penalties in connection with alleged violations of regulatory requirements. While we have insurance for many of these risks, we retain risk relating to certain of these perils and certain perils are not covered by our insurance, including due to the hurricanes noted below. Certain insurers have limited available property coverage in response to the natural catastrophes experienced in recent years. If we experience significant losses that are not covered by our insurance, whether due to adverse weather conditions or otherwise, or we are required to retain a significant portion of a loss, it could have a significant and adverse effect on us.. Recent hurricanes impacted our operations. Hurricane Maria significantly impacted the island of Puerto Rico during the third quarter of 2017, as the power grid and communication systems on the island were severely damaged. As a result, certain of the Company's operations were suspended and operations were adversely impacted into the fourth quarter of 2017 and remain impacted in the first quarter of 2018. Hurricanes Irma and Harvey disrupted our operations in Florida, Georgia (Atlanta market), and Texas (Houston market) during the third quarter of 2017. Operations in Florida and Texas were impacted for nearly one week, while Georgia experienced a disruption in operations for 1-2 days. We estimate that storm-related losses, expenses, and business interruption, net of expected insurance proceeds, were approximately $3.0 million in 2017.. Leverage. Our significant debt and other commitments expose us to a number of risks, including:. Cash requirements for debt and lease obligations. A significant portion of the cash flow we generate must be used to service the interest and principal payments relating to our various financial commitments, including $3.8 billion of floor plan notes payable, $2.2 billion of non-vehicle long-term debt and $5.1 billion of future lease commitments (including extension periods that are reasonably assured of being exercised and assuming constant consumer price indices). A sustained or significant decrease in our operating cash flows could lead to an inability to meet our debt service or lease requirements or to a failure to meet specified financial and operating covenants included in certain of our agreements. If this were to occur, it may lead to a default under one or more of our commitments and potentially the acceleration of amounts due, which could have a significant and adverse effect on us.. 24. Table of Contents. Availability. Because we finance the majority of our operating and strategic initiatives using a variety of commitments, including floor plan notes payable and revolving credit facilities, we are dependent on continued availability of these sources of funds. If these agreements are terminated or we are unable to access them because of a breach of financial or operating covenants or otherwise, we will likely be materially affected.. Interest rate variability. The interest rates we are charged on a substantial portion of our debt, including the floor plan notes payable we issue to purchase the majority of our inventory, are variable, increasing or decreasing based on changes in certain published interest rates. Increases to such interest rates would likely result in significantly higher interest expense for us, which would negatively affect our operating results. Because many of our customers finance their vehicle purchases, increased interest rates may also decrease vehicle sales, which would negatively affect our operating results.. Impairment of our goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets has in the past had, and in the future could have, a material adverse impact on our earnings. We evaluate goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually and upon the occurrence of an indicator of impairment. Our process for impairment testing of these assets is described further under \"Impairment Testing\" in Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. If we determine that the amount of our goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets are impaired at any point in time, we would be required to reduce the value of these assets on our balance sheet, which would also result in a material non-cash impairment charge that could also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the period in which the impairment occurs.. Performance of sublessees. In connection with the sale, relocation and closure of certain of our franchises, we have entered into a number of third-party sublease agreements. The rent paid by our sub-tenants on such properties in 2017 totaled approximately $20.6 million. In the aggregate, we remain ultimately liable for approximately $200.1 million of such lease payments including payments relating to all available renewal periods. We rely on our sub-tenants to pay the rent and maintain the properties covered by these leases. In the event a subtenant does not perform under the terms of their lease with us, we could be required to fulfill such obligations, which could have a significant and adverse effect on us.. Information technology. Our information systems are fully integrated into our operations and we rely on them to operate effectively, including with respect to: electronic communications and data transfer protocols with manufacturers and other vendors; customer relationship management; sales and service scheduling; data storage; and financial and operational reporting. The majority of our systems are licensed from third parties, the most significant of which are provided by a limited number of suppliers in the U.S., U.K. and Australia. The failure of our information systems to perform as designed, the failure to protect the integrity of these systems, or the interruption of these systems due to natural disasters, power loss or other reasons, could disrupt our business operations, impact sales and results of operations, expose us to customer or third-party claims, or result in adverse publicity.. Cyber-security. As part of our business model, we receive personal information regarding customers, associates and vendors, from various online and offline channels. We collect, process, and retain this information in the normal course of our business. Our internal and third-party systems are under a moderate level of risk from hackers or other individuals with malicious intent to gain unauthorized access to our systems. Cyber-attacks are growing in number and sophistication thus presenting an ongoing threat to systems, whether internal or external, used to operate the business on a day to day basis. Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of our third-party service providers, could be vulnerable to security breaches, computer viruses, lost or misplaced data, programming errors, human errors, acts of vandalism, or other events. Any security breach or event resulting in the misappropriation, loss, or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, or degradation of services provided by critical business systems, whether by us directly or our third-party service providers, could adversely affect our business operations, sales, reputation with current and potential customers, associates or vendors, as well as other operational and financial impacts derived from investigations, litigation, imposition of penalties or other means.. The United Kingdom's potential departure from the European Union could adversely affect us. The United Kingdom is expected to exit the European Union in May 2019. Negotiations regarding the future terms of the United Kingdom's relationship with the European Union are ongoing. The effects of Brexit will depend on any agreements the. 25. Table of Contents. United Kingdom makes to retain access to European Union markets either during a transitional period or more permanently. Brexit itself and the length of time the United Kingdom and the European Union engage in discussions, which could be over a protracted period of time, could adversely affect European and worldwide economic and market conditions and could contribute to instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets, including volatility in the value of the British Pound and the Euro. More specifically, it could lead to increased retail prices in the United Kingdom since the majority of vehicles sold in the U.K. are imported from other countries in Europe.. In addition, commentators have suggested the June 2016 Brexit vote could lead to further referenda as to whether certain of the four countries that comprise the United Kingdom (England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland) will remain a part of the European Union. While the majority of our U.K. operations are in England, we also have operations in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. The same factors noted above apply to any potential exit of these countries from the United Kingdom.. As exchange rates fluctuate, our revenue and results of operations as reported in U.S. Dollars fluctuate. The British Pound has weakened since the June 2016 Brexit vote, with an average exchange rate of British Pounds to U.S. Dollars of 1.29 for 2017 compared to 1.36 in 2016, a decrease of 5.1%. A weakening British Pound as compared to the U.S. Dollar negatively impacts our U.S. Dollar reported results of operations. Our U.K. business generated 33% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017. Any of these effects of Brexit, and others we cannot anticipate, could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. The success of our commercial vehicle distribution businesses are directly impacted by availability and demand for the vehicles and other products we distribute. We are the exclusive distributor of Western Star commercial trucks, MAN commercial trucks and buses, and Dennis Eagle refuse collection vehicles, together with associated parts, across Australia, New Zealand and portions of the Pacific. We are also the distributor of diesel and gas engines and power systems in these same markets. The profitability of these businesses depends upon the number of vehicles, engines, power systems and parts we distribute, which in turn is impacted by demand for these products. We believe demand is subject to general economic conditions, exchange rate fluctuations, regulatory changes, competitiveness of the products and other factors over which we have limited control. In the event sales of these products are less than we expect, our related results of operations and cash flows for this aspect of our business may be materially adversely affected. The products we distribute are principally manufactured at a limited number of locations. In the event of a supply disruption or if sufficient quantities of the vehicles, engines, power systems and parts are not made available to us, or if we accept these products and are unable to economically distribute them, our cash flows or results of operations may be materially adversely affected.. Australian economic conditions.  Our commercial vehicle distribution operations in Australia and New Zealand may be impacted by local economic conditions and in particular, the price of commodities such as copper and iron ore which may impact the desire of our customers to operate their mining operations and replace their vehicle fleets. Adverse pricing concerns of those, and other commodities, may have a material adverse effect on our ability to distribute, and/or retail, commercial vehicles and other products profitably. These same conditions may also negatively impact the value of the Australian Dollar versus the U.S. Dollar, which negatively impacts our U.S. Dollar reported financial results and the pricing of products sold by Penske Commercial Vehicles, which are manufactured in the U.S., U.K., and Germany.. International and foreign currency risk. We have significant operations outside the U.S. that expose us to changes in foreign exchange rates and to the impact of economic and political conditions in the markets where we operate. As exchange rates fluctuate, our results of operations as reported in U.S. Dollars fluctuate. For example, if the U.S. Dollar were to continue to strengthen against the British Pound, our U.K. results of operations would translate into less U.S. Dollar reported results. The British Pound has weakened since the June 2016 Brexit vote, with an average exchange rate of British Pounds to U.S. Dollars of 1.29 for 2017 compared to 1.36 in 2016, a decrease of 5.1%. Sustained levels or an increase in the value of the U.S. Dollar, particularly as compared to the British Pound, could result in a significant and adverse effect on our reported results.. Joint ventures. We have significant investments in a variety of joint ventures, including retail automotive operations in Germany, Japan, Italy and Spain. We previously had a 23.4% interest in PTL, and as of September 2017, increased our ownership to 28.9%. We expect to receive annual operating distributions from PTL and the other ventures, and in the case of PTL, realize significant cash tax savings. These benefits may not be realized if the joint ventures do not perform. 26. Table of Contents. as expected, or if changes in tax, financial, or regulatory requirements negatively impact the results of the joint venture operations. Our ability to dispose of these investments may be limited. In addition, the relevant joint venture agreement and other contractual restrictions may limit our access to the cash flows of these joint ventures. For example, PTL's principal debt agreements allow partner distributions only as long as PTL is not in default under that agreement and the amount PTL distributes does not exceed 50% of its consolidated net income.. Additional risks relating to PTL. PTL's business has additional risks to those in the retail business.. Customers. PTL has a more concentrated customer base than we do and is subject to changes in the financial health of its customers, changes in their asset utilization rates and increased competition for those customers.. Workforce. PTL requires a significant number of qualified drivers and technicians which may be difficult to hire, and is subject to increased compliance costs or work stoppages relating to those employees, particularly in regards to changes in labor laws and time of work rules regarding those employees.. Fleet risk. As one of the largest purchasers of commercial trucks in North America, PTL requires continued availability from truck manufacturers and suppliers of vehicles and parts for its fleet, which may be uncertain, in particular if a significant recall were to occur. In addition, because PTL sells a large number of trucks each year and is subject to residual risk for the vehicles it leases to customers, changes in values of used trucks affects PTL's profitability.. Capital markets risk. PTL relies on banks and the capital markets to fund its operations and capital commitments. PTL had a significant amount of total indebtedness at December 31, 2017, which it uses in part to purchase its vehicle fleet, and therefore is subject to changes in, and continued access to, the capital markets.. Key personnel. We believe that our success depends to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management, and in particular upon Roger Penske who is our Chair and Chief Executive Officer. To the extent Mr. Penske, or other key personnel, were to depart from our Company unexpectedly, our business could be significantly disrupted.. Regulatory issues. We are subject to a wide variety of regulatory activities, including:. Governmental regulations, claims and legal proceedings. Governmental regulations affect almost every aspect of our business, including the fair treatment of our employees, wage and hour issues, and our financing activities with customers. In California, judicial decisions call into question whether long-standing methods for compensating dealership employees comply with the local wage and hour rules. We could be susceptible to claims or related actions if we fail to operate our business in accordance with applicable laws or it is determined that long-standing compensation methods did not comply with local laws. Claims arising out of actual or alleged violations of law which may be asserted against us or any of our dealers by individuals, through class actions, or by governmental entities in civil or criminal investigations and proceedings, may expose us to substantial monetary damages which may adversely affect us.. European Union General Data Protection Regulation. We are subject to numerous laws and regulations in the U.S. and internationally designed to protect the information of clients, customers, employees, and other third parties that we collect and maintain, including the European Union General Data Protection Regulation (the \"GDPR\"), which will take effect in May 2018. The GDPR, among other things, mandates new requirements regarding the handling of personal data of employees and customers, including its use, protection and the ability of persons whose data is stored to correct or delete such data about themselves. If we fail to comply with these laws or regulations, we could be subject to significant litigation, monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions or fines in one or more jurisdictions. For example, a failure to comply with the GDPR could result in fines up to the greater of \20020 million or 4% of annual global revenues.. Recalls. Legislative and regulatory bodies from time to time have considered laws or regulations that would prohibit companies from renting or selling any vehicle that is subject to a recall until the recall service is performed. Whether any such prohibition may be enacted, and its ultimate scope, cannot be determined at this time. If a law or. 27. Table of Contents. regulation is enacted that prevents the sale of vehicles until recall service has been performed, we could be required to reserve a significant portion of our vehicles from being available for sale for even a minor recall unrelated to vehicle safety. In addition, various manufacturers have issued stop sale notices in relation to certain recalls that require that we retain vehicles until the recall can be performed. For certain airbag recalls, these required parts are currently unavailable. While servicing recall vehicles yields parts and service revenue to us, the inability to sell a significant portion of our vehicles could increase our costs and have an adverse effect on our results of operations if a large number of our vehicles are the subject of simultaneous recalls, or if needed replacement parts are not in adequate supply.. Vehicle requirements. Federal and state governments in our markets have increasingly placed restrictions and limitations on the vehicles sold in the market in an effort to combat perceived negative environmental effects. For example, in the U.S., automotive manufacturers are subject to federally mandated corporate average fuel economy standards which will increase substantially through 2025. Furthermore, numerous states and other jurisdictions, including California, have adopted or are considering regulations requiring the sale of specified numbers of zero-emission vehicles. Moreover, several countries, including the U.K. and Germany, have announced or are considering plans to ban or restrict the sale of diesel or combustible fuel vehicles. Significant increases in fuel economy requirements and new federal or state restrictions on emissions on vehicles and fuels could adversely affect prices of and demand for the new vehicles that we sell, which could materially adversely affect us.. Franchise laws in the U.S. In the U.S., state law generally provides protections to franchised vehicle dealers from discriminatory practices by manufacturers and from unreasonable termination or non-renewal of their franchise agreements. If these franchise laws are repealed or amended, manufacturers may have greater flexibility to terminate or not renew our franchises. Franchised automotive dealers in the European Union operate without such protections.. Changes in law. New laws and regulations at the state and federal level may be enacted which could materially adversely impact our business. For example, in 2013, a ballot initiative in California titled the California Car Buyers Protection Act was proposed that would have eliminated our ability to be compensated for assisting in financing customer vehicle purchases, among other matters. If these initiatives or other adverse changes in law were to be enacted, it could have a significant and adverse effect on us.. New U.S. tax laws. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was signed into law. This law imposes significant changes on the way we are taxed, including, among other things, changes to U.S. federal tax rates, imposing significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest, and the migration to a new international system of taxation. There is substantial uncertainty regarding both the timing and the details of how these changes will affect our company, our customers, and the customers of Penske Truck Leasing, any of which changes may be adverse to us. See Part II, Item 8, Note 16 of the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our initial assessment of these changes to our company.. Environmental regulations. We are subject to a wide range of environmental laws and regulations, including those governing: discharges into the air and water; the operation and removal of storage tanks; and the use, storage and disposal of hazardous substances. In the normal course of our operations we use, generate and dispose of materials covered by these laws and regulations. We face potentially significant costs relating to claims, penalties and remediation efforts in the event of non-compliance with existing and future laws and regulations.. Accounting rules and regulations. The Financial Accounting Standards Board is currently evaluating several significant changes to GAAP in the U.S., including new guidance recently issued for revenue recognition and lease accounting. Changes to U.S. GAAP could significantly affect our reported financial position, earnings and cash flows upon adoption and effectiveness.  For example, adoption of the new lease accounting standard is expected to result in a significant increase in lease liabilities and right-of-use assets on our consolidated balance sheets. In addition, changes to lease accounting could affect PTL customers' decisions to purchase or lease trucks, which could adversely affect their business if leasing becomes a less favorable option. See the disclosure provided under \"Recent Accounting Pronouncements\" in Part II, Item 8, Note 1 of the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail on accounting standard updates expected to have an impact on us.. 28. Table of Contents. Related parties. Our two largest stockholders, Penske Corporation and its affiliates (\"Penske Corporation\") and Mitsui & Co. and its affiliates (\"Mitsui\"), together beneficially own approximately 58% of our outstanding common stock. The presence of such significant shareholders results in several risks, including:. Our principal stockholders have substantial influence. Penske Corporation and Mitsui have entered into a stockholders agreement pursuant to which they have agreed to vote together as to the election of our directors. As a result, Penske Corporation has the ability to control the composition of our Board of Directors, which may allow it to control our affairs and business. This concentration of ownership, coupled with certain provisions contained in our agreements with manufacturers, our certificate of incorporation, and our bylaws, could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of us.. Some of our directors and officers may have conflicts of interest with respect to certain related party transactions and other business interests. Roger Penske, our Chair and Chief Executive Officer and a director, holds the same offices at Penske Corporation. Robert Kurnick, Jr., our President and a director, is also the Vice Chair and a director of Penske Corporation. Bud Denker, our Executive Vice President, Human Resources, is also the President of Penske Corporation. Each of these officers is paid much of their compensation by Penske Corporation. The compensation they receive from us is based on their efforts on our behalf, however, they are not required to spend any specific amount of time on our matters. One of our directors, Roger S. Penske, Jr.,  is the son of our Chair and also serves as a director of Penske Corporation. Kanji Sasaki, one of our directors and officers, is also an employee of Mitsui & Co. Roger Penske also serves as Chairman of Penske Truck Leasing, for which he is compensated by PTL.. Penske Corporation has pledged its shares of common stock to secure a loan facility. Penske Corporation has pledged all of its shares of our common stock as collateral to secure a loan facility. A default by Penske Corporation could result in the foreclosure on those shares by the lenders, after which the lenders could attempt to sell those shares on the open market or to a third party. Any such change in ownership and/or sale could materially impact the market price of our common stock. See below \"Penske Corporation ownership levels.\". Penske Corporation ownership levels. Certain of our agreements have clauses that are triggered in the event of a material change in the level of ownership of our common stock by Penske Corporation, such as our trademark agreement between us and Penske Corporation that governs our use of the \"Penske\" name which can be terminated 24 months after the date that Penske Corporation no longer owns at least 20% of our voting stock. We may not be able to renegotiate such agreements on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all, in the event of a significant change in Penske Corporation's ownership.. We have a significant number of shares of common stock eligible for future sale. Penske Corporation and Mitsui own approximately 58% of our common stock and each has two demand registration rights that could result in a substantial number of shares being introduced for sale in the market. We also have a significant amount of authorized but unissued shares. The introduction of any of these shares into the market could have a material adverse effect on our stock price."
