[1] "Item 1A.Risk Factors.. In addition to the other information set forth in this report, one should carefully consider the factors discussed below, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risks described below are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be insignificant also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results.. Risks Relating to Peoples and Its Business. We are subject to credit risk in connection with our lending activities, and our financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted by economic conditions and other factors that adversely affect our borrowers.. Lending money is a significant part of the banking business and interest income on our loan portfolio is the principal component of our revenue. Our financial condition and results of operations are affected by the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, and in a timely manner. Borrowers, however, do not always repay their loans. The risk of non-payment is assessed through our underwriting and loan review procedures based on several factors including credit risks of a particular borrower, changes in economic conditions, the duration of the loan and in the case of a collateralized loan, uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral and other factors. Despite our efforts, we do and will experience loan and lease losses, and our financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our loans which were between 30 and 89 days delinquent on December 31, 2017 totaled $6.4 million.  Our non-performing assets were approximately $11.6 million on December 31, 2017, including $1.0 million of loans acquired as part of the merger net of the remaining credit adjustment of $0.9 million. Our allowance for loan and lease losses was approximately $19.0 million on December 31, 2017.. Our emphasis on the Eastern Pennsylvania and the Southern Tier of New York market area exposes us to a risk of loss associated with the region.. At December 31, 2017, $287.9 million or 17.0%, of our loan portfolio consisted of residential mortgage loans and $786.2 million or 46.4%, of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate loans. A majority of these loans are made to borrowers or secured by properties located in Eastern Pennsylvania and Broome County, New York. As a result of this concentration, a sustained downturn in the regional economy could significantly increase non-performing loans, which would hurt our net income. Future declines in real estate values in the region could also cause some of our mortgage and commercial real estate loans to be inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss if we seek to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral.. We make commercial and industrial, construction, and commercial real estate loans, which present greater risks than other types of loans.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 74.6% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial and industrial, construction, and commercial real estate loans. These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans or consumer loans. These types of loans are also typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans. Because our loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and industrial, construction, and commercial real estate loans some of which have large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses, and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The commercial real estate market is cyclical and poses risks of loss to us because of the concentration of commercial real estate loans in our loan portfolio, and the lack of diversity in risk associated with such a concentration. Banking regulators have been giving and continue to give commercial real estate lending greater scrutiny, and banks with larger commercial real estate loan portfolios are expected by their regulators to implement improved underwriting, internal. -15-. Table of Contents. controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress-testing practices to manage risks associated with commercial real estate lending. Additional losses or regulatory requirements related to our commercial real estate loan concentration could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our allowance for loan and lease losses may not be adequate to absorb actual loan and lease losses, and we may be required to make further provisions for loan and lease losses and charge off additional loans in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our business.. We attempt to maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses, established through a provision for loan and lease losses accounted for as an expense, which is adequate to absorb losses inherent in our loan portfolio. If our allowance for loan and lease losses is inadequate, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The determination of the allowance for loan and lease losses involves a high degree of subjectivity and judgment and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require us to increase our allowance for loan and lease losses. Increases in non-performing loans have a significant impact on our allowance for loan and lease losses. Our allowance for loan and lease losses may not be adequate to absorb actual loan and lease losses. If conditions in our regional real estate markets decline, we could experience increased delinquencies and credit losses, particularly with respect to real estate construction and land acquisition and development loans and one-to-four family residential mortgage loans. Moreover, if the current economic growth slows, the negative impact to our market areas could result in higher delinquencies and credit losses. As a result, we will continue to make provisions for loan and lease losses and to charge off additional loans in the future, which could materially adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations.. In addition to our internal processes for determining loss allowances, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan and lease losses and may require us to increase the provision for loan and lease losses, to recognize further loan charge-offs, or to take other actions, based on judgments that differ from those of our management. If loan charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan and lease losses, we will need to increase our allowance for loan lease losses. Furthermore, growth in our loan portfolio would generally lead to an increase in the provision for loan and lease losses. Provisions for loan and lease losses will result in a decrease in net income and capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, and results of operations and cash flows.. Changes in interest rates could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability to generate net income substantially depends upon our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Certain assets and liabilities react differently to changes in market interest rates. Further, interest rates on some types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate prior to changes in broader market interest rates, while rates on other types of assets may lag behind. Additionally, some assets such as adjustable-rate mortgages have features, and rate caps, which restrict changes in their interest rates.. Factors such as inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, global disorder, terrorist activity, instability in domestic and foreign financial markets, and other factors beyond our control, may affect interest rates. Changes in market interest rates will also affect the level of voluntary prepayments on loans and the receipt of payments on mortgage-backed securities, resulting in the receipt of proceeds that may have to be reinvested at a lower rate than the loan or mortgage-backed security being prepaid. Although we pursue an asset-liability management strategy designed to manage our risk from changes in market interest rates, changes in interest rates can still have a material adverse effect on our profitability.. Changes in interest rates could affect our investment values and impact comprehensive income and stockholders' equity.. At December 31, 2017, we had approximately $272.5 million of securities available-for-sale. These securities are carried at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets. Unrealized gains or losses on these securities, that is, the difference between the fair value and the amortized cost of these securities, are reflected in stockholders' equity, net of deferred. -16-. Table of Contents. taxes. As of December 31, 2017, our available-for-sale securities had an unrealized loss, net of taxes, of $1.0 million. The fair value of our available-for-sale securities is subject to interest rate change, which would not affect recorded earnings, but would increase or decrease comprehensive income and stockholders' equity.. Our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by other-than-temporary impairment charges relating to our investment portfolio.. Numerous factors, including the lack of liquidity for re-sales of certain investment securities, the absence of reliable pricing information for investment securities, adverse changes in the business climate, adverse regulatory actions or unanticipated changes in the competitive environment, could have a negative effect on our investment portfolio in future periods. Investments are evaluated periodically to determine whether a decline in their value is other than temporary. Management utilizes criteria such as the magnitude and duration of the decline, in addition to the reasons underlying the decline, to determine whether the loss in value is other than temporary. The term \"other than temporary\" indicates that the prospects for a near term recovery of value are not necessarily favorable, or that there is a lack of evidence to support fair values equal to, or greater than, the carrying value of the investment.. Once a decline in value is determined to be other than temporary, the value of the security is reduced and a corresponding charge to earnings is recognized. If an impairment charge is significant enough, it could affect our ability to pay dividends, which could materially adversely affect us and our ability to pay dividends to shareholders. Significant impairment charges could also negatively impact our regulatory capital ratios and result in us not being classified as \"well-capitalized\" for regulatory purposes.. The requirement to record certain assets and liabilities at fair value may adversely affect our financial results.. We report certain assets, including available-for-sale investment securities, at fair value. Generally, for assets that are reported at fair value we use quoted market prices or valuation models that utilize market data inputs to estimate fair value. Because we record these assets at their estimated fair value, we may incur losses even if the asset in question presents minimal credit risk. The level of interest rates can impact the estimated fair value of investment securities. Disruptions in the capital markets may require us to recognize other-than-temporary impairments in future periods with respect to investment securities in our portfolio. The amount and timing of any impairment recognized will depend on the severity and duration of the decline in fair value of our investment securities and our estimation of the anticipated recovery period.. Changes in the value of goodwill and intangible assets could reduce our earnings.. We account for goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with GAAP, which, in general, requires that goodwill not be amortized, but rather that it be tested for impairment at least annually at the reporting unit level using the two step approach. Testing for impairment of goodwill and intangible assets is performed annually and involves the identification of reporting units and the estimation of fair values. The estimation of fair values involves a high degree of judgment and subjectivity in the assumptions used. As of December 31, 2017, the market value of our shares exceeded the recorded book value, therefore goodwill is considered not impaired and no further testing is required. Changes in the local and national economy, the federal and state legislative and regulatory environments for financial institutions, the stock market, interest rates and other external factors (such as natural disasters or significant world events) may occur from time to time, often with great unpredictability, and may materially impact the fair value of publicly traded financial institutions and could result in an impairment charge at a future date.. Our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity may be adversely impacted by issues arising from certain industry deficiencies in foreclosure practices, including delays and challenges in the foreclosure process.. Over the past few years, foreclosure timelines have increased due to, among other reasons, delays associated with the significant increase in the number of foreclosure cases as a result of the economic downturn, federal and state legal and regulatory actions, including additional consumer protection initiatives related to the foreclosure process and voluntary and, in some cases, mandatory programs intended to permit or require lenders to consider loan modifications or other alternatives to foreclosure. Further increases in the foreclosure timeline may have an adverse effect on collateral values and our ability to minimize our losses.. -17-. Table of Contents. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry.. We are operating in a challenging economic environment, including generally uncertain national and local conditions. Additional concerns from some of the countries in the European Union and elsewhere have also strained the financial markets both abroad and domestically. Although there has been some improvement in the overall global macroeconomic conditions in 2017, financial institutions continue to be affected by conditions in the real estate market and the constrained financial markets. In recent years, declines in the housing market, increases in unemployment and under-employment have negatively impacted the credit performance of loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. Reflecting concern over economic conditions, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers. A worsening of economic conditions may impact our results of operations and financial condition. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tLoan delinquencies could increase further;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tProblem assets and foreclosures could increase further;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tDemand for our products and services could decline;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tCollateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, could decline further in value, in turn reducing a customer's borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our loans; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tInvestments in mortgage-backed securities could decline in value as a result of performance of the underlying loans or the diminution of the value of the underlying real estate collateral pressing the government sponsored agencies to honor its guarantees to principal and interest.. Our operations are concentrated in Eastern Pennsylvania and the Southern Tier of New York. As a result of this geographic concentration, our financial results may correlate to the economic conditions in our specific local market. Deterioration in economic conditions in this market area, particularly in the industries on which this geographic area depend, or a general decline in economic conditions may adversely affect the quality of our loan portfolio (including the level of non-performing assets, charge offs and provision expense) and demand for our products and services, and, accordingly, our results of operations.. Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability.. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. We compete actively with other Pennsylvania and southern New York financial institutions, many larger than us, as well as with financial and non-financial institutions headquartered elsewhere. Commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, and money market funds actively compete for deposits and loans. Such institutions, as well as consumer finance, insurance companies and brokerage firms, may be considered competitors with respect to one or more services they render. Many of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits and may offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. Our profitability depends upon our ability to successfully compete in our market area.. Increased needs for disbursement of funds on loans and deposits can affect our liquidity.. We manage our liquidity with an objective of maintaining a balance between sources and uses of funds in such a way that the cash requirements of customers for loans and deposit withdrawals are met in the most economical manner. If we do not properly manage our liquidity, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected.. Our future pension plan costs and contributions could be unfavorably impacted by the factors that are used in the actuarial calculations.. As part of the Penseco merger, we assumed Penseco's legacy non-contributory defined benefit pension plan, which was frozen by Penseco in 2008. The costs for this legacy pension plan are dependent upon a number of factors, such as the. -18-. Table of Contents. rates of return on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, future government regulation and required or voluntary contributions made to the plans. Without sustained growth in the pension investments over time to increase the value of our plan assets and depending upon the other factors impacting our costs as listed above, we could be required to fund the plan with higher amounts of cash than are anticipated by our actuaries. Such increased funding obligations could have a material impact on our liquidity by reducing our cash flows.. Our holding company is dependent for liquidity on payments from Peoples Bank, which payments are subject to restrictions.. We depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from Peoples Bank to fund dividend payments to our shareholders, if any, and to fund all payments on obligations of our holding company. Peoples Bank is subject to laws that restrict dividend payments or authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from Peoples Bank to us. Restrictions or regulatory actions of that kind could impede our access to funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations or dividend payments, if any. In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. Holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends if and when declared from time to time by our board of directors in its sole discretion out of funds legally available for that purpose.. We need to continually attract and retain qualified personnel for our operations.. Our ability to provide high-quality customer service and to operate efficiently and profitably is dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified individuals for key positions within the organization. We rely heavily on our executive officers and employees. The loss of certain executive officers or employees could have an adverse effect on us because, as a community bank, the executive officers and employees typically have more responsibility than would be typical at a larger financial institution with more employees. In addition, due to our size as a community bank, we have fewer management-level and other personnel who are in position to succeed to and assume the responsibilities of certain existing executive officers and employees. If we expand geographically or expand to provide non-banking services, current management may not have the necessary experience for successful operation in these new areas. There is no guarantee that management would be able to meet these new challenges or that we would be able to retain new directors or personnel with the appropriate background and expertise.. Our financial performance may suffer if our information technology is unable to keep pace with growth or industry developments.. Effective and competitive delivery of our products and services is increasingly dependent upon information technology resources and processes, both those provided internally as well as those provided through third party vendors. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables us to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services to enhance customer convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have greater resources to invest in technological improvements. Additionally, as technology in the financial services industry changes and evolves, keeping pace becomes increasingly complex and expensive for us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services, which could reduce our ability to compete effectively.. A failure in or a breach of our information systems or infrastructure, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could disrupt our business, damage our reputation, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In the ordinary course of our business activities, including the ongoing maintenance of deposits, loan and other account relationships for our customers, receiving instructions and effecting transactions for those customers and other users of our products and services, we regularly collect, process, transmit and store significant amounts of confidential information regarding our customers, employees and others. In addition to confidential information regarding our customers, employees and others, we, and in some cases a third party, compile, process, transmit and store proprietary, non-public information concerning our business, operations, plans and strategies.. -19-. Table of Contents. Information security risks have significantly increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists and other external parties. We rely on digital technologies, computer and email systems, software, and networks to conduct secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential information. In addition, to access our products and services, our customers may use personal smart phones, tablet PCs and other mobile devices that are beyond our control systems. Our technologies, systems, networks and our customers' devices have been subject to, and are likely to continue to be the target of, cyber-attacks, computer viruses, malicious code, phishing attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized use, loss or destruction of our or our customers' or third parties' confidential information, or otherwise disrupt our or our customers' or other third parties' business operations.. In addition to cyber-attacks or other security breaches involving the theft of sensitive and confidential information, hackers recently have engaged in attacks against large financial institutions, particularly denial of service attacks, that are designed to disrupt key business services, such as customer-facing web sites. We are not able to anticipate or implement effective preventive measures against all security breaches of these types, especially because the techniques used change frequently and because attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources.. Although we use a variety of physical, procedural and technological safeguards to protect confidential information from mishandling, misuse or loss, these safeguards cannot provide assurance that mishandling, misuse or loss of the information will not occur, and that if mishandling, misuse or loss of the information did occur, those events will be promptly detected and addressed. A failure in or breach of our operational or information security systems, or those of a third-party service provider, as a result of cyber-attacks or information security breaches or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our business, damage our reputation, increase our costs and/or cause significant losses. As information security risks and cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend substantial resources to further enhance our information security measures and/or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.. If information security is breached, despite the controls we and our third-party vendors have instituted, information can be lost or misappropriated, resulting in financial loss or costs to us or damages to others. These costs or losses could materially exceed the amount of insurance coverage, if any, which would adversely affect our earnings. In addition, our reputation could be damaged which could result in loss of customers, greater difficulty in attracting new customers, or an adverse effect on the value of our common stock.. Our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting may not achieve their intended objectives.. We maintain disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure that we timely report information as specified in the rules and forms of the Securities and Exchange Commission. We also maintain a system of internal control over financial reporting. These controls may not achieve their intended objectives. Control processes that involve human diligence and compliance, such as our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, are subject to lapses in judgment and breakdowns resulting from human failures. Controls can also be circumvented by collusion or improper management override. Because of such limitations, there are risks that material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected and that information may not be reported on a timely basis. If our controls are not effective, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and market for our common stock, and could subject us to regulatory scrutiny.. We are exposed to environmental liabilities with respect to real estate.. We currently operate 27 branch offices, and own additional real estate. In addition, a significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. In the course of our business, we may foreclose, accept deeds in lieu of foreclosure, or otherwise acquire real estate, and in doing so could become subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may become responsible to a governmental agency or third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by those parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean-up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with environmental investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting. -20-. Table of Contents. from environmental contamination emanating from the property. Although we have policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before acquiring title to any real property, these may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. If we were to become subject to significant environmental liabilities, it could materially and adversely affect us.. The soundness of other financial services institutions may adversely affect our credit risk.. We rely on other financial services institutions through trading, clearing, counterparty, and other relationships. We maintain limits and monitor concentration levels of our counterparties as specified in our internal policies. Our reliance on other financial services institutions exposes us to credit risk in the event of default by these institutions or counterparties. These losses could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our operations could be interrupted if certain external vendors on which we rely experience difficulty, terminate their services or fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations.. We depend to a significant extent on relationships with third party service providers. Specifically, we utilize third party core banking services and receive credit card and debit card services, branch capture services, Internet banking services and services complementary to our banking products from various third party service providers. If these third party service providers experience difficulties or terminate their services and we are unable to replace them with other service providers, our operations could be interrupted. It may be difficult for us to replace some of our third party vendors, particularly vendors providing our core banking, credit card and debit card services, in a timely manner if they were unwilling or unable to provide us with these services in the future for any reason. If an interruption were to continue for a significant period of time, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Even if we are able to replace them, it may be at higher cost to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, if a third party provider fails to provide the services we require, fails to meet contractual requirements, such as compliance with applicable laws and regulations, or suffers a cyber-attack or other security breach, our business could suffer economic and reputational harm that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our use of third party vendors and our other ongoing third party business relationships are subject to increasing regulatory requirements and attention.. We regularly use third party vendors as part of our business. We also have substantial ongoing business relationships with other third parties. These types of third party relationships are subject to increasingly demanding regulatory requirements and attention by our bank regulators. Recent regulation requires us to enhance our due diligence, ongoing monitoring and control over our third party vendors and other ongoing third party business relationships. We expect that our regulators will hold us responsible for deficiencies in our oversight and control of our third party relationships and in the performance of the parties with which we have these relationships. As a result, if our regulators conclude that we have not exercised adequate oversight and control over our third party vendors or other ongoing third party business relationships or that such third parties have not performed appropriately, we could be subject to enforcement actions, including civil money penalties or other administrative or judicial penalties or fines as well as requirements for customer remediation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Our ability to pay dividends or repurchase shares is subject to limitations.. The Penseco merger agreement contemplates that, unless 80 percent of our board of directors determines otherwise, we will pay a quarterly cash dividend in an amount no less than $0.31 per share through 2018, provided that sufficient funds are legally available, and that Peoples and Peoples Bank remain \"well-capitalized\" in accordance with applicable regulatory guidelines.. Our ability to pay dividends on our stock depends upon our receipt of dividends from Peoples Bank and its subsidiaries. As a state-chartered bank, Peoples Bank is subject to regulatory restrictions on the payment and amounts of dividends under the Pennsylvania Banking Code.. -21-. Table of Contents. Further, Peoples Bank's ability to pay dividends is also subject to its profitability, financial condition, capital expenditures and other cash flow requirements. There is no assurance that Peoples Bank will be able to pay the dividends contemplated by the Penseco merger agreement or other dividends. Our failure to pay dividends could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. Proxy contests and shareholder litigation may adversely affect our results of operations.. Proxy contests or shareholder litigation could cause us to use resources, both in expense and in the time and attention of our management, which could otherwise be used in operating our business. Accordingly, our results of operations may be adversely effected.. Risks Related to Potential Future Transactions. Future acquisitions by us could dilute existing shareholders' ownership of Peoples and may cause us to become more susceptible to adverse economic events.. We may issue shares of our common stock in connection with future acquisitions and other investments, which would dilute existing shareholders' ownership interests in Peoples. While there is no assurance that these transactions will occur, or that they will occur on terms favorable to us, future business acquisitions could be material to us, and the degree of success achieved in acquiring and integrating these businesses could have a material effect on the value of our common stock. In addition, these acquisitions could require us to expend substantial cash or other liquid assets or to incur debt, which could cause us to become more susceptible to economic downturns and competitive pressures.. Our governing documents, Pennsylvania law, and current policies of our board of directors contain provisions which may reduce the likelihood of a change in control transaction that may otherwise be available and attractive to shareholders.. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain certain anti-takeover provisions that may make it more difficult or expensive or may discourage a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by our board of directors. In particular, the articles of incorporation and bylaws: classify our board of directors into three groups, so that shareholders elect only approximately one-third of the board each year; require our shareholders to give us advance notice to nominate candidates for election to the board of directors or to make shareholder proposals at a shareholders' meeting; and require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our common stock to approve amendments to our bylaws or to approve certain business combinations that have not received the support of two-thirds of our board of directors. These provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control, even though a majority of our shareholders may consider such proposals desirable. Such provisions could also make it more difficult for third parties to remove and replace the members of our board of directors. Moreover, these provisions could diminish the opportunities for shareholders to participate in certain tender offers, including tender offers at prices above the then-current market value of our common stock, and may also inhibit increases in the trading price of our common stock that could result from takeover attempts or speculation.. In addition, anti-takeover provisions in Pennsylvania law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. These provisions could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could reduce the amount that shareholders might receive if we are sold. For example, Pennsylvania law may restrict a third party's ability to obtain control of Peoples and may prevent shareholders from receiving a premium for their shares of our common stock. Pennsylvania law also provides that our shareholders are not entitled by statute to propose amendments to our articles of incorporation.. Our ability to make opportunistic acquisitions is subject to significant risks, including the risk that regulators will not provide the requisite approvals.. We may make opportunistic whole or partial acquisitions of other banks, branches, financial institutions, or related businesses from time to time that we expect may further our business strategy. Any possible acquisition will be subject to regulatory approval, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such approval in a timely manner or at all. Even if we obtain regulatory approval, these acquisitions could involve numerous risks, including lower than expected performance or higher than expected costs, difficulties related to integration, diversion of management's. -22-. Table of Contents. attention from other business activities, changes in relationships with customers, and the potential loss of key employees. In addition, we may not be successful in identifying acquisition candidates, integrating acquired institutions, or preventing deposit erosion or loan quality deterioration at acquired institutions. Competition for acquisitions can be highly competitive, and we may not be able to acquire other institutions on attractive terms. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in completing or will even pursue future acquisitions, or if such transactions are completed, that we will be successful in integrating acquired businesses into operations. Our ability to grow may be limited if we choose not to pursue or are unable to successfully make acquisitions in the future.. Risks Related to Government Regulation. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations.. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by certain state and federal agencies including the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Pennsylvania Department of Banking and Securities. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which we may engage and are intended primarily to ensure the safety and soundness of financial institutions. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on operations, the classification of assets and determination of the level of the allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on us and our operations. There also are several federal and state statutes which regulate the obligation and liabilities of financial institutions pertaining to environmental issues. In addition to the potential for attachment of liability resulting from our own actions, we may be held liable under certain circumstances for the actions of our borrowers, or third parties, when such actions result in environmental problems on properties that collateralize loans held by us. Further, the liability has the potential to far exceed the original amount of a loan.. We will be subject to more stringent capital and liquidity requirements in the future, which may adversely affect our net income and future growth.. In July 2013, the federal banking agencies issued final rules to implement the Basel III regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. U.S. implementation of Basel III will lead to significantly higher capital requirements and more restrictive leverage and liquidity ratios than those currently in place.. Future increases in minimum capital requirements could adversely affect our net income. Furthermore, our failure to comply with the minimum capital requirements could result in our regulators taking formal or informal actions against us which could restrict our future growth or operations.. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and has resulted and will result in new regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations.. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act became law. This law continues to have a significant impact on the bank regulatory structure and the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many years.. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit \"unfair, deceptive or abusive\" acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks with $10 billion or less in assets, like us, will continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary bank regulators. Dodd-Frank permits states to adopt consumer protection laws and standards that are more stringent than those adopted at the federal level and, in certain circumstances, permits state attorneys general to enforce compliance with both the state and federal laws and regulations.. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect our earnings.. Our deposits are insured by the FDIC up to legal limits and, accordingly, we are subject to FDIC deposit insurance assessments. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the deposit insurance fund. -23-. Table of Contents. depleted during the financial crisis, the FDIC has increased assessment rates of insured institutions. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC must undertake several initiatives that will result in higher deposit insurance fees being paid to the FDIC. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. Any future increases or required prepayments of FDIC insurance premiums or special assessments may adversely impact our earnings.. Regulations relating to privacy, information security and data protection could increase our costs, affect or limit how we collect and use personal information and adversely affect our business opportunities.. We are subject to various privacy, information security and data protection laws, including requirements concerning security breach notification, and we could be negatively impacted by these laws. For example, our business is subject to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act which, among other things: (i) imposes certain limitations on our ability to share nonpublic personal information about our customers with nonaffiliated third parties; (ii) requires that we provide certain disclosures to customers about our information collection, sharing and security practices and afford customers the right to \"opt out\" of any information sharing by us with nonaffiliated third parties (with certain exceptions) and (iii) requires we develop, implement and maintain a written comprehensive information security program containing safeguards appropriate based on our size and complexity, the nature and scope of our activities, and the sensitivity of customer information we process, as well as plans for responding to data security breaches. Various state and federal banking regulators and states have also enacted data security breach notification requirements with varying levels of individual, consumer, regulatory or law enforcement notification in certain circumstances in the event of a security breach. Moreover, legislators and regulators in the United States are increasingly adopting or revising privacy, information security and data protection laws that potentially could have a significant impact on our current and planned privacy, data protection and information security-related practices, our collection, use, sharing, retention and safeguarding of consumer or employee information, and some of our current or planned business activities. This could also increase our costs of compliance and business operations and could reduce income from certain business initiatives. This includes increased privacy-related enforcement activity at the federal level, by the Federal Trade Commission, as well as at the state level, such as with regard to mobile applications.. Compliance with current or future privacy, data protection and information security laws (including those regarding security breach notification) affecting customer or employee data to which we are subject could result in higher compliance and technology costs and could restrict our ability to provide certain products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions or results of operations. Our failure to comply with privacy, data protection and information security laws could result in potentially significant regulatory or governmental investigations or actions, litigation, fines, sanctions, increased insurance cost and damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations."                                                       
