[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in the Company's common shares involves certain risks. The following is a discussion of the most significant risks and uncertainties that may affect the Company's business, financial condition and future results.. Risks Relating to Our Business and Market. As a business operating in the financial services industry, our business and operations may be adversely affected in numerous and complex ways by weak economic conditions.. Our businesses and operations, which primarily consist of lending money to customers in the form of loans, borrowing money from customers in the form of deposits and investing in securities, are sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the United States. If the U.S. economy weakens, our growth and profitability from our lending, deposit and investment operations could be constrained. Uncertainty about the federal fiscal policymaking process, the medium and long-term fiscal outlook of the federal government, and future tax rates is a concern for businesses, consumers and investors in the United States. In addition, economic conditions in foreign countries could affect the stability of global financial markets, which could hinder U.S. economic growth. Weak economic conditions are characterized by deflation, fluctuations in debt and equity capital markets, a lack of liquidity and/or depressed prices in the secondary market for mortgage loans, increased delinquencies on mortgage, consumer and commercial loans, residential and commercial real estate price declines and lower home sales and commercial activity. All of these factors are detrimental to our business, and the interplay between these factors can be complex and unpredictable. Our business is also significantly affected by monetary and related policies of the U.S. federal government and its agencies. Changes in any of these policies are influenced by macroeconomic conditions and other factors that are beyond our control. Adverse economic conditions and government policy responses to such conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A substantial majority of our loans and operations are in Utah, Salt Lake, Davis, Cache and Washington counties, and therefore our business is particularly vulnerable to a downturn in the local economies of those counties.. Unlike larger financial institutions that are more geographically diversified, our business is concentrated primarily in the state of Utah. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 80.4% of our loans were secured by real estate, the substantial majority of which are located in Utah, Salt Lake, Davis, Cache and Washington counties. If the local economy and particularly the real estate market declines, the rates of delinquencies, defaults, foreclosures, bankruptcies and losses in our loan portfolio would likely increase. This risk increases for our variable rate loans which represent 73.0% of our loans. As a result of this lack of diversification in our loan portfolio, a downturn in the local economy generally and real estate market specifically could significantly reduce our profitability and growth and adversely affect our financial condition.. 21. A large portion of our loan portfolio is tied to the real estate market and we may be negatively impacted by downturns in that market.. The majority of loans in our loan portfolio are real estate related, including loans for construction and land development projects and for the purchase, improvement or refinancing of residential and commercial real estate. A downturn in the real estate market could increase loan delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures, and significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If real estate values decline, it is also more likely that we would be required to increase our allowance for loan losses. If during a period of reduced real estate values we are required to liquidate the property collateralizing a loan to satisfy the debt or to increase our allowance for loan losses, it could materially reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial condition.. As of December 31, 2017, 22.6% of our loan portfolio consisted of real estate construction, and acquisition and land development loans, which generally have a higher degree of risk than long-term financing of existing properties because repayment depends on the completion of the project and usually on the sale of the property. In addition, these loans are often \"interest-only loans,\" which normally require only the payment of interest accrued prior to maturity. Interest-only loans carry greater risk than principal and interest loans because no principal is paid prior to maturity. This risk is particularly apparent during periods of rising interest rates and declining real estate values. If there is a significant decline in the real estate market due to a material increase in interest rates or for other reasons, many of these loans could default and result in foreclosure. Moreover, most of these loans are for projects located in our primary market area. If we are forced to foreclose on a project prior to completion, we may not be able to recover the entire unpaid portion of the loan or we may be required to fund additional money to complete the project or hold the property for an indeterminate period of time. Any of these outcomes may result in losses and reduce our earnings.. The FDIC has given guidance recommending that if the sum of (i) certain categories of commercial real estate, or CRE, loans and (ii) acquisition, development and construction, or ADC, loans exceeds 300% of total risk-based capital, or if ADC loans exceed 100% of total risk- based capital, heightened risk management practices should be employed to mitigate risk. As of December 31, 2017, our ratio for the sum of CRE and ADC loans was 273% and our ratio for ADC loans was 149%.  Our concentration in ADC loans is cyclical and tends to increase in the second and third quarters of each year as demand for ADC loans increases. An increase in ADC loan concentration could cause our ratio for ADC loans to increase and even exceed the FDIC's guideline. We have exceeded these guidance ratios at times in the past and may do so in the future.  We actively monitor and believe that we effectively manage our CRE and ADC loan concentrations.  If we exceed the FDIC's guidelines and do not effectively manage the risk of our CRE and ADC loans, we may be subject to regulatory scrutiny including a requirement to raise additional capital, reduce our loan concentrations or undertake other remedial actions.. We are a community bank and our ability to maintain our reputation is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially and adversely affect our performance.. Our reputation is one of the most valuable components of our business. As such, we strive to conduct our business in a manner that enhances our reputation. This is done, in part, by recruiting, hiring and retaining associates who share our core values of being an integral part of the communities we serve, delivering superior service to our customers and caring about our customers and associates. If our reputation is negatively affected by the actions of our associates or otherwise, our business and, therefore, our operating results may be materially and adversely affected.. We could suffer material credit losses if we do not appropriately manage our credit risk.. There are risks inherent in making any loan, including risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers, risks of non-payment, risks resulting from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral and risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions. Changes in the economy can cause the assumptions that we made at origination to change and can cause borrowers to be unable to make payments on their loans, and significant changes in collateral values can cause us to be unable to collect the full value of loans we make. There is no assurance that our credit risk monitoring and loan approval procedures are or will be adequate or will reduce the inherent risks associated with lending. Our credit administration personnel, and policies and procedures may not adequately adapt to changes in economic or any other conditions affecting customers and the quality of our loan portfolio. Any failure to manage such credit risks may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 22. The small to medium sized businesses that we lend to may have fewer resources to weather adverse business developments, which may impair their ability to repay a loan, and such impairment could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We focus our business development and marketing strategy primarily on small to medium sized businesses. Small to medium sized businesses frequently have smaller market shares than their competition, may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, often need substantial additional capital to expand or compete and may experience substantial volatility in operating results, any of which may impair a borrower's ability to repay a loan. In addition, the success of a small to medium sized business often depends on the management skills, talents and efforts of one or two people or a small group of people, and the death, disability or resignation of one or more of these people could have a material adverse impact on the business and its ability to repay its loan. If general economic conditions negatively impact Utah and small to medium sized businesses are adversely affected or our borrowers are otherwise affected by adverse business conditions, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. If we are not able to maintain our past levels of growth, our future prospects and competitive position could be diminished and our profitability could be reduced.. We may not be able to sustain our growth at the rate we have enjoyed during the past several years. Our growth over the past several years has been driven primarily by a strong residential housing and commercial real estate market in our market areas and our ability to identify attractive expansion opportunities. A downturn in local economic market conditions, particularly in the real estate market, a failure to attract and retain high performing associates, heightened competition from other financial services providers, and an inability to attract additional core deposits and lending customers, among other factors, could limit our ability to grow as rapidly as we have in the past and as such have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may incur higher than anticipated costs and our ability to execute our growth strategy could be impaired.. We expect to continue to grow our assets and deposits by increasing our product and service offerings and expanding our operations through new branches and possibly acquisitions. Our ability to manage growth successfully will depend on our ability to:. •  identify suitable markets for expansion;. •  attract and retain qualified management;. •  attract funding to support additional growth;. •  maintain asset quality and cost controls;. •  maintain adequate regulatory capital and profitability to support our lending activities; and. •  find attractive acquisition candidates and successfully acquire and integrate the acquisitions in an efficient manner.. If we do not manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to realize the benefit from the investments in technology, infrastructure, and personnel that we have made to support our expansion. In addition, we may incur higher costs and realize less revenue growth than we expect, which would reduce our earnings and diminish our future prospects, and we may not be able to continue to implement our business strategy and successfully conduct our operations. Risks associated with failing to maintain effective financial and operational controls as we grow, such as maintaining appropriate loan underwriting procedures, determining adequate allowances for loan losses and complying with regulatory accounting requirements, including increased loan losses, reduced earnings and potential regulatory penalties and restrictions on growth, all could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 23. We may grow through mergers or acquisitions, which strategy may not be successful or, if successful, may produce risks in successfully integrating and managing the merged companies or acquisition and may dilute our shareholders.. As part of our growth strategy, we may pursue mergers and acquisitions of banks and nonbank financial services companies within and outside of our principal market area. Although we regularly identify and explore specific acquisition opportunities as part of our ongoing business practices, we may not find a suitable merger or acquisition opportunity. Mergers and acquisitions involve numerous risks, any of which could harm our business, including:. •  difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, existing contracts, accounting processes and personnel of the target and realizing the anticipated synergies of the combined businesses;. •  difficulties in supporting and transitioning customers of the target company;. •  diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations;. •  the price we pay or other resources that we devote may exceed the value we realize, or the value we could have realized if we had allocated the purchase price or other resources to another opportunity;. •  entering new markets or areas in which we have limited or no experience;. •  potential loss of key associates and customers from either our business or the target's business;. •  assumption of unanticipated problems or latent liabilities of the target; and. •  inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs.. Mergers and acquisitions also frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets, which are subject to potential impairments in the future and that could harm our financial results. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing shareholders may be diluted, which could affect the market price of our common shares. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate mergers, acquisitions or investments, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of any such merger or acquisition, and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. The failure to successfully evaluate and execute mergers, acquisitions or investments or otherwise adequately address these risks could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. On October 6, 2017, we completed the acquisition of $257 million in loans and seven Utah branch locations with approximately $160 million in deposits from Banner Bank (\"Banner\"). Also, on November 13, 2017, we completed the acquisition of Town & Country Bank, Inc. (\"T&C\"), located in St. George, Utah. Realization of the anticipated synergies from these acquisitions depends on our ability to effectively integrate the operation of the acquired branches into our existing operations, including, among other things, the integration of information systems and personnel policies and practices. In addition to the risks identified above, failure to successfully integrate these acquired branches into our operations could materially harm our business. Further, we may be unable to retain customers of Banner or T&C, which could result in our loss of deposit balances and materially harm our financial condition.. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses.. A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that we could sustain losses due to loan defaults and non-performance on loans. We maintain an allowance for loan losses in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States to provide for such defaults and other non-performance. As of December 31, 2017, our allowance for loan losses (\"ALLL\") as a percentage of loans held for investment was 1.12%.  In accordance with acquisition accounting, loans acquired from the Utah branches of Banner Bank and Town & Country Bank were recorded at their estimated fair value, which resulted in a net discount to the loans' contractual amounts, a portion of which reflects a discount for expected credit losses.  Credit discounts are included in the determination of fair value, and as a result, no allowance for loan losses is recorded for acquired loans at the acquisition date.  The discount recorded on the acquired loans is not reflected in the allowance for loan losses or related allowance coverage ratios.  The determination of the appropriate level of loan loss allowance is an inherently difficult process and is based on numerous assumptions. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond our control. In addition, our underwriting policies, adherence to credit monitoring processes, and risk management systems and controls may not prevent unexpected losses. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses. Moreover, any increase in our allowance for loan losses will adversely affect our earnings.. 24. In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") amended FASB ASC Topic 326, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses. The amendments in this Update replace the current incurred loss model with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses over the life of the loan and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to calculate credit loss estimates. The amendments are effective for public business entities for the first interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of these amendments to the Company's financial position and results of operations and currently does not know or cannot reasonably quantify the impact of the adoption of the amendments as a result of the complexity and extensive changes from the amendments. The ALLL is a material estimate of the Company and given the change from an incurred loss model to a methodology that considers the credit loss over the life of the loan, there is the potential for an increase in the ALLL at adoption date. The Company anticipates a significant change in the processes and procedures to calculate the ALLL, including changes in assumptions and estimates to consider expected credit losses over the life of the loan versus the current accounting practice that utilizes the incurred loss model. The Company is developing new procedures for determining an allowance for credit losses relating to held-to-maturity investment securities. In addition, the current accounting policy and procedures for other-than-temporary impairment on available-for-sale investment securities will be replaced with an allowance approach. The Company is developing and implementing processes and procedures to ensure it is fully compliant at adoption date.. We may have difficulty attracting additional necessary personnel, which may divert resources and limit our ability to successfully expand our operations.. Our business plan includes, and is dependent upon, our hiring and retaining highly qualified and motivated associates at every level. We expect to experience substantial competition in identifying, hiring and retaining top-quality associates. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified associates we may be unable to successfully execute our business strategy and manage our growth.. The unexpected loss of key officers would materially and adversely affect our ability to execute our business strategy, and diminish our future prospects.. Our success to date and our prospects for success in the future are substantially dependent on our senior management team. The loss of key members of our senior management team could materially and adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business plan and, as a result, our future prospects. The loss of senior management without qualified successors who can execute our strategy would also have an adverse impact on us.. Our profitability depends on interest rates generally, and we may be adversely affected by changes in market interest rates.. Our profitability depends in substantial part on our net interest income. Our net interest income depends on many factors that are partly or completely outside of our control, including competition, federal economic, monetary and fiscal policies, and economic conditions generally. Our net interest income will be adversely affected if market interest rates change so that the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings increases faster than the interest we earn on loans and investments. In addition, an increase in interest rates could adversely affect borrowers' ability to pay the principal or interest on existing loans or reduce their desire to borrow more money. This may lead to an increase in our non-performing assets, a decrease in loan originations, or a reduction in the value of and income from our loans, any of which could have a material and negative effect on our results of operations. Fluctuations in market rates and other market disruptions are neither predictable nor controllable and may adversely affect our financial condition and earnings.. The ratio of variable to fixed-rate loans in our loan portfolio, the ratio of short-term (maturing at a given time within 12 months) to long-term loans, and the ratio of our demand, money market and savings deposits to CDs (and their time periods), are the primary factors affecting the sensitivity of our net interest income to changes in market interest rates. The composition of our rate-sensitive assets or liabilities is subject to change and could result in a more unbalanced position that would cause market rate changes to have a greater impact on our earnings.  In periods of rising interest rates, commercial and consumer demand for new lending and re-financings decreases, this in turn adversely impacts our lending activities.. 25. Our funding sources may prove insufficient to provide liquidity, replace deposits and support our future growth.. We rely on customer deposits, advances from the FHLB, the Federal Reserve System and lines of credit at other financial institutions to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances if desired, we may not be able to replace such funds in the future if our financial condition, the financial condition of the FHLB or market conditions were to change. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our profitability would be adversely affected.. FHLB borrowings and other current sources of liquidity may not be available or, if available, sufficient to provide adequate funding for operations. Furthermore, our own actions could result in a loss of adequate funding. For example, our availability at the FHLB could be reduced if we are deemed to have poor documentation or processes. Accordingly, we may seek additional higher-cost debt in the future to achieve our long- term business objectives. Additional borrowings, if sought, may not be available to us or, if available, may not be available on favorable terms. If additional financing sources are unavailable or are not available on reasonable terms, our growth and future prospects could be adversely affected.. We may be adversely affected by the lack of soundness of other financial institutions or market utilities.. Our ability to engage in routine funding and other transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. Defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial institutions or market utilities, or the financial services industry generally, may lead to market-wide liquidity problems and losses of depositor, creditor and counterparty confidence and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions.. Impairment of investment securities could require charges to earnings, which would negatively impact our results of operations.. We maintain a significant amount of our assets in investment securities, and must periodically test our investment securities for impairment in value. In assessing whether the impairment of investment securities is other-than-temporary, we consider the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than cost, the financial condition and near- term prospects of the issuer, and the intent and ability to retain its investment in the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value in the near term. If we conclude that impairment of investment securities is required, we could be required to incur charges to earnings, which would result in a negative impact on our results of operations. The impact of these impairment matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. We face strong competition from banks, credit unions and other financial services providers that offer banking services, which may limit our ability to attract and retain banking customers.. Competition in the banking industry generally, and in our geographic market specifically, is strong. Competitors include banks, as well as other financial services providers, such as savings and loan institutions, consumer finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, our competitors include several larger national and regional financial institutions whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and ATMs, offer a wider array of banking services and conduct extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the credit needs of a broader customer base than us. Larger competitors may also be able to offer better lending and deposit rates to customers, and could increase their competition as we become a public company and our growth becomes more visible. Moreover, larger competitors may not be as vulnerable as us to downturns in the local economy and real estate market since they have a broader geographic area and their loan portfolio is more diversified. While our deposit base has increased, several larger banks have grown their deposit market share in our markets faster than we have resulting in a declining relative deposit market share for us in our existing markets. We. 26. believe our declining relative market share in deposits has resulted primarily from aggressive marketing and advertising, branch expansion, expanded delivery channels and more attractive rates offered by larger bank competitors. We also compete against community banks, credit unions and non-bank financial services companies that have strong local ties. These smaller institutions are likely to cater to the same small to medium sized businesses that we target. Additionally, financial technology companies (\"Fintech\") have developed technology which allows customers to obtain loans via the internet in an expeditious manner and could become competitors to us.  If we are unable to attract and retain banking customers, we may be unable to continue to grow our loan and deposit portfolios and our results of operations and financial condition may otherwise be adversely affected. Ultimately, we may be unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors.. Cyber-attacks or other security breaches could have a material adverse effect on our business.. In the normal course of business, we collect, process, and retain sensitive and confidential information regarding our customers. We also have arrangements in place with other third parties through whom we share and receive information about their customers who are or may become our customers. Although we devote significant resources and management focus to ensuring the integrity of our systems through information security and business continuity programs, our facilities and systems, and those of third party service providers, are vulnerable to external or internal security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming or human errors or other similar events.. Information security risks for financial institutions like us have increased recently in part because of new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies (including mobile devices) to conduct financial and other business transactions and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, perpetrators of fraud, hackers, terrorists and others. In addition to cyber-attacks or other security breaches involving the theft of sensitive and confidential information, hackers recently have engaged in attacks against large financial institutions, particularly denial of service attacks that are designed to disrupt key business services, such as customer-facing websites. We are not able to anticipate or implement effective preventive measures against all security breaches of these types, especially because the techniques used change frequently and because attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources. We employ detection and response mechanisms designed to contain and mitigate security incidents, but early detection may be thwarted by sophisticated attacks and malware designed to avoid detection.. We also face risks related to cyber-attacks and other security breaches in connection with credit and debit card transactions that typically involve the transmission of sensitive information regarding our customers through various third parties, including merchant acquiring banks, payment processors, payment card networks and our processors. Some of these parties have in the past been the target of security breaches and cyber-attacks, and because the transactions involve third parties and environments such as the point of sale that we do not control or secure, future security breaches or cyber-attacks affecting any of these third parties could impact us through no fault of our own, and in some cases we may have exposure and suffer losses for breaches or attacks relating to them. We also rely on numerous other third party service providers to conduct other aspects of our business operations and face similar risks relating to them. While we regularly conduct security assessments on these third parties, we cannot be sure that their information security protocols are sufficient to withstand a cyber-attack or other security breach.. The access by unauthorized persons to, or the improper disclosure by us, of confidential information regarding our customers or our own proprietary information, software, methodologies, and business secrets could result in significant legal and financial exposure, supervisory liability, damage to our reputation or a loss of confidence in the security of our systems, products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, recently there have been a number of well-publicized attacks or breaches affecting others in our industry that have heightened concern by consumers generally about the security of using credit and debit cards, which have caused some consumers, including our customers, to use our credit and debit cards less in favor of alternative methods of payment and has led to increased regulatory focus on, and potentially new regulations relating to, these matters. Further cyber-attacks or other breaches in the future, whether affecting us or others, could intensify consumer concern and regulatory focus and result in reduced use of our cards and increased costs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. To the extent we are involved in any future cyber-attacks or other breaches, our brand and reputation could be affected, and this could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  If we experience a cyber-attack, our insurance coverage may not cover all of our losses, and furthermore, we may experience a loss of reputation.. 27. Our risk management framework may not be effective in mitigating risks and losses to us.. Our risk management framework is comprised of various processes, systems and strategies, and is designed to manage the types of risk to which we are subject, including, among others, credit, market, liquidity, interest rate and compliance. Our framework also includes financial or other modeling methodologies that involve management assumptions and judgment. Our risk management framework may not be effective under all circumstances and may not adequately mitigate any risk of loss to us. If our framework is not effective, we could suffer unexpected losses and our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially and adversely affected. We may also be subject to potentially adverse regulatory consequences.. We are subject to certain operating risks, related to customer or employee fraud which could harm our reputation and business.. Employee error and employee and customer misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. Misconduct by our employees could include hiding unauthorized activities from us, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of our customers or improper use of confidential information. It is not always possible to prevent employee error and misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Employee error could also subject us to financial claims for negligence.  If our internal controls fail to prevent or detect an occurrence, or if any resulting loss is not insured, excess insurance coverage is denied or not available, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we need additional capital in the future to continue our growth, we may not be able to obtain it on terms that are favorable.. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to support our continued growth and to maintain our capital levels. Our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional securities will depend primarily upon our financial condition and the condition of financial markets at that time. Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain additional capital in the amounts or on terms satisfactory to us. Our growth may be constrained if we are unable to raise additional capital as needed.. If third parties infringe upon our intellectual property or if we were to infringe upon the intellectual property of third parties, we may expend significant resources enforcing or defending our rights or suffer competitive injury.. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret laws and confidentiality provisions to establish and protect our proprietary rights. If we fail to successfully maintain, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer. Similarly, if we were to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, our competitive position could suffer. Third parties may challenge, invalidate, circumvent, infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property, or such intellectual property may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product or service offerings or other competitive harm. We may also be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. Others, including our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products or services or design around our intellectual property, and in such cases we could not assert our intellectual property rights against such parties. Further, our contractual arrangements may not effectively prevent disclosure of our confidential information or provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of our confidential or proprietary information. We may have to litigate to enforce or determine the scope and enforceability of our intellectual property rights, trade secrets and know-how, which could be time-consuming and expensive, could cause a diversion of resources and may not prove successful. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to obtain rights with respect to third party intellectual property could harm our business and ability to compete. In addition, because of the rapid pace of technological change in our industry, aspects of our business and our products and services rely on technologies developed or licensed by third parties, and we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties on reasonable terms or at all.. 28. In some instances, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and protect our proprietary information, or to defend against claims by third parties that our products, services or technology infringe or otherwise violate their intellectual property or proprietary rights. Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents that could be infringed by our products, services or technology. Any of these third parties could bring an infringement claim against us with respect to our products, services or technology. We may also be subject to third party infringement, misappropriation, breach or other claims with respect to copyright, trademark, license usage or other intellectual property rights. In addition, in recent years, individuals and groups, including patent holding companies, have been purchasing intellectual property assets in order to make claims of infringement and attempt to extract settlements from companies in the banking and financial services industry. Any litigation or claims brought by or against us, whether with or without merit, could result in substantial costs to us and divert the attention of our management, which could harm our business and results of operations. In addition, any intellectual property litigation or claims against us could result in the loss or compromise of our intellectual property and proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities, including damage awards, result in an injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain of our services, require us to redesign affected products or services, or require us to seek licenses which may only be available on unfavorable terms, if at all, any of which could harm our business and results of operations.. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title.. Approximately 80.4% of our outstanding loan portfolio was secured by real estate as of December 31, 2017.  In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. We rely on our information technology and telecommunications systems and third party servicers, and the failure of these systems could adversely affect our business.. Our business is highly dependent on the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems and third party servicers. Our primary banking and accounting systems are third party software platforms operated on an in-house basis: however, we outsource certain of our information technology systems including our electronic funds transfer, or EFT, ATM and debit card processing, credit and debit card and transaction processing, and our online Internet bill payment and banking services. We rely on these systems to process new and renewal loans, provide customer service, facilitate collections and share data across our organization. The failure of these systems, or the termination of a third party software license or service agreement on which any of these systems is based, could interrupt our operations. Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third party systems fail or experience interruptions. If sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to process new and renewal loans and provide customer service or compromise our ability to collect loan payments in a timely manner.  In addition, our ability to adopt new information technology and technological products needed to meet our customers' banking needs may be limited if our third party servicers are slow to adopt or choose not to adopt such new technology and products. Such a failure to provide this technology and products to our customers could result in a loss of customers, which would negatively impact our business and results of operations.. 29. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties.. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. In deciding whether to extend credit, we may rely upon our customers' representations that their financial statements conform to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. We also may rely on customer representations and certifications, or other auditors' reports, with respect to the business and financial condition of our customers. Our financial condition, results of operations, financial reporting and reputation could be negatively affected if we rely on materially misleading, false, inaccurate or fraudulent information.. Our planned growth in our leasing division includes increased risks, including risks related to collateralizing leases, our relative inexperience in this area, and complying with state lending and other requirements with which we are unfamiliar.. We are growing our equipment lease financing business by originating direct leases on a national level through our GrowthFunding Equipment Finance (\"GEF\") division.  We formed our GEF division in 2016 to increase our leasing portfolio and to diversify our commercial and industrial loan portfolio. GEF is underwriting leases nationwide. These leases are used to purchase equipment essential to the operations of our borrowers/lessees and are secured by the specific equipment financed. Prior to forming GEF, we acquired rental streams of payments on leases from third-party leasing companies. The negotiation and administration of such leases is handled by third-party leasing companies. Because this division is a new line of business to the Bank, we are not certain how quickly a nationwide customer base will accept this business venture. Growing a new line of business requires significant investment in personnel which, if the business is not successful, may not be recovered.   While we have hired personnel with experience in leasing, there is no assurance we will be profitable or will be able to properly administer the lease portfolio. Finally, this division is subject to state lending requirements and other laws with which we are unfamiliar, and failure to comply with these requirements and laws could result in significant penalties to the Bank.. Leasing is traditionally based on cash flow lending. Cash flow lending involves lending money based primarily on the expected cash flow, profitability and enterprise value of a business rather than on the value of the assets or resale of the collateral for the loan or lease. When cash flow loans or leases become non-performing, our primary resource to recover some, or all, of the principal of our loan or lease is to liquidate the collateral. If there is a shortfall in the collateral value, the Bank must pursue the corporate or personal guarantors, the sale of the entire company as a going concern, or restructure the company in a way we believe would enable us to generate sufficient cash flow over time to repay our loan or lease. These alternatives may not generate enough proceeds to repay the loan or lease.. For some types of leases, the Bank will own and have risk of loss on the leased property and the customer will make rental lease payments over a set lease period. The lease payments are determined, in part, based on the expected residual value of the property at the end of the lease. At the end of the lease, the Bank must sell or re-lease the property to the lessee or a third party. Leases with significant residual values have higher risk than many other types of lending because the economics of the lease also rely on the leased property's value in addition to the other sources of repayment from the lease. We may be unable to re-lease or sell the property within a reasonable timeframe or may experience market price changes in the expected residual value of the leased property over the lease term. If we do not properly manage residual values of the leased property we may not be able to recover our investment.. Risks Related to Our Regulatory Environment. We are subject to regulation, which increases the cost and expense of regulatory compliance and therefore reduces our net income and may restrict our growth and ability to acquire other financial institutions.. As a bank holding company under federal law, we are subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, or the BHCA, and the examination and reporting requirements of the Federal Reserve. In addition to supervising and examining us, the Federal Reserve, through its adoption of regulations implementing the BHCA, places certain restrictions on the activities that are deemed permissible for bank holding companies to engage in. Changes in the number or scope of permissible activities could have an adverse effect on our ability to realize our strategic goals.. 30. As a Utah state-chartered bank that is not a member of the Federal Reserve System, the Bank is separately subject to regulation by both the FDIC and the Utah Department of Financial Institutions, or UDFI. The FDIC and UDFI regulate numerous aspects of the Bank's operations, including adequate capital and financial condition, permissible types and amounts of extensions of credit and investments, permissible non- banking activities and restrictions on dividend payments. The Bank undergoes periodic examinations by the FDIC and UDFI. Following such examinations, the Bank may be required, among other things, to change its respective asset valuations or the amounts of required loan loss allowances or to restrict its respective operations, as well as increase its respective capital levels, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. Supervision, regulation, and examination of PUB and the Bank by the bank regulatory agencies are intended primarily for the protection of consumers, bank depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund of the FDIC, rather than holders of our common shares.. Particularly as a result of new regulations and regulatory agencies under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, or the Dodd-Frank Act, we may be required to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with applicable laws and regulations. This allocation of resources, as well as any failure to comply with applicable requirements, may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.. Changes in laws, government regulation and monetary policy may have a material effect on our results of operations.. Financial institutions have been the subject of significant legislative and regulatory changes and may be the subject of further significant legislation or regulation in the future, none of which is within our control. For example, on February 3, 2017, President Trump signed an executive order pursuant to which he ordered the Secretary of the Treasury to consult with the heads of the member agencies of the Financial Stability Oversight Council on the extent to which existing laws, treaties, regulations, guidance, reporting and recordkeeping requirements, and other government policies promote certain core principles laid out in the executive order. This may result in repeals of, or amendments to, existing laws, treaties, regulations, guidance, reporting and recordkeeping requirements and other government policies.  Significant new laws or regulations or changes in, or repeals of, existing laws or regulations, including those with respect to federal and state taxation, may cause our results of operations to differ materially. In addition, the costs and burden of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Further, federal monetary policy significantly affects the Bank's credit conditions, as well as for the Bank's depositors and borrowers, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve, primarily through open market operations in U.S. government securities, the discount rate for bank borrowings and reserve requirements. A material change in any of these conditions could have a material impact on us, the Bank and the Bank's depositors and borrowers, and therefore on our results of operations.. The continuing enactment, potential repeal or amendment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 may have a material effect on our operations.. In 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was adopted, which imposes significant regulatory and compliance changes. The key effects of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business are, or may include:. •  increases in regulatory capital requirements and additional restrictions on the types of instruments that may satisfy such requirements;. •  creation of new government regulatory agencies (particularly the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, or CFPB, which develops and enforces rules for bank and non-bank providers of consumer financial products);. •  changes to deposit insurance assessments;. •  regulation of debit interchange fees we earn;. •  changes in retail banking regulations, including potential limitations on certain fees we may charge;. •  changes in regulation of consumer mortgage loan origination and risk retention; and. •  changes in corporate governance requirements for public companies.. 31. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act restricts the ability of banks to engage in certain proprietary trading or to sponsor or invest in private equity or hedge funds. The Dodd-Frank Act also contains provisions designed to limit the ability of insured depository institutions, their holding companies and their affiliates to conduct certain swaps and derivatives activities and to take certain principal positions in financial instruments.. Some provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act have not been completely implemented. In addition, President Trump's new administration has discussed the possibility of repealing or amending the Dodd-Frank Act and the February 3, 2017 executive order could lead to such repeals or amendments.  The changes resulting from this executive order and the continuing implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of our business activities or otherwise adversely affect our business. Failure to comply with the requirements may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. While we cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us, these changes could be materially adverse to investors in our common shares.. New and future rulemaking by the CFPB and other regulators, as well as enforcement of existing consumer protection laws, may have a material effect on our operations and operating costs.. The CFPB has the authority to implement and enforce a variety of existing federal consumer protection statutes and to issue new regulations but, with respect to institutions of our size, does not have primary examination and enforcement authority with respect to such laws and regulations. The authority to examine depository institutions with $10.0 billion or less in assets, such as the Bank, for compliance with federal consumer laws remains largely with our primary federal regulator, the FDIC. However, the CFPB may participate in examinations of smaller institutions on a \"sampling basis\" and may refer potential enforcement actions against such institutions to their primary regulators. In some cases, regulators such as the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, and the Department of Justice also retain certain rulemaking or enforcement authority, and we also remain subject to certain state consumer protection laws. As an independent bureau within the Federal Reserve, the CFPB may impose requirements more severe than the previous bank regulatory agencies. The CFPB has placed significant emphasis on consumer complaint management and has established a public consumer complaint database to encourage consumers to file complaints they may have against financial institutions. We are expected to monitor and respond to these complaints, including those that we deem frivolous, and doing so may require management to reallocate resources away from more profitable endeavors.. The CFPB has a number of significant rules which impact nearly every aspect of the lifecycle of a residential mortgage. These rules implement the Dodd-Frank Act amendments to the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Truth in Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. The rules require banks to, among other things: (i) develop and implement procedures to ensure compliance with a new \"reasonable ability to repay\" test and identify whether a loan meets a new definition for a \"qualified mortgage;\" (ii) implement new or revised disclosures, policies and procedures for servicing mortgages including, but not limited to, early intervention with delinquent borrowers and specific loss mitigation procedures for loans secured by a borrower's principal residence; (iii) comply with additional restrictions on mortgage loan originator compensation; and (iv) comply with new disclosure requirements and standards for appraisals and escrow accounts maintained for \"higher priced mortgage loans.\" These rules create operational and strategic challenges for us, as we are both a mortgage originator and a servicer. For example, business models for cost, pricing, delivery, compensation, and risk management will need to be re-evaluated and potentially revised, perhaps substantially.. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and recent rulemaking, we will become subject to more stringent capital requirements.. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the federal banking agencies adopted final rules, or the U.S. Basel III Capital Rules, to update their general risk-based capital and leverage capital requirements to incorporate agreements reflected in the Third Basel Accord adopted by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, or Basel III Capital Standards, as well as the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act. The U.S. Basel III Capital Rules are described in more detail in \"Supervision and Regulation  -  Basel III.\" While we are continuing to prepare for the impact of the U.S. Basel III Capital Rules, the U.S. Basel III Capital Rules may still have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the failure to meet the established capital requirements could result in one or more of our regulators placing limitations or conditions on our activities or restricting the commencement of new activities, and such failure could subject us to a variety of enforcement remedies available to the federal regulatory authorities, including limiting our ability to pay dividends, issuing a directive to increase our capital and terminating our FDIC deposit insurance. FDIC deposit insurance is critical to the continued operation of the Bank.. 32. Our ability to raise additional capital, when and if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, including investor perceptions regarding the banking industry and market condition, and governmental activities, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, we may not be able to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we fail to meet these capital and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Higher capital levels could also lower our return on equity.. Our failure to meet applicable regulatory capital requirements, or to maintain appropriate capital levels in general, could affect customer and investor confidence, our ability to grow, our costs of funds and FDIC insurance costs, our ability to pay dividends on common shares, our ability to make acquisitions, and our business, results of operations and financial condition, generally.. We may be required to contribute capital or assets to the Bank that could otherwise be invested or deployed more profitably elsewhere.. Federal law and regulatory policy impose a number of obligations on bank holding companies that are designed to reduce potential loss exposure to the depositors of insured depository subsidiaries and to the FDIC's deposit insurance fund. For example, a bank holding company is required to serve as a source of financial strength to its FDIC-insured depository subsidiaries and to commit financial resources to support such institutions where it might not do so otherwise, even if we would not ordinarily do so and even if such contribution is to our detriment or the detriment of our shareholders. These situations include guaranteeing the compliance of an \"undercapitalized\" bank with its obligations under a capital restoration plan, as described further in this prospectus.. A capital injection into the Bank may be required at times when we do not have the resources to provide it at the holding- company level, and therefore we may be required to issue common shares or debt to obtain the required capital. Issuing additional common shares would dilute our current shareholders' percentage of ownership and could cause the price of our common shares to decline. If we are required to issue debt, and in the event of a bankruptcy by PUB, the bankruptcy trustee would assume any commitment by us to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of the Bank. Moreover, bankruptcy law provides that claims based on any such commitment will be entitled to a priority of payment over the claims of PUB's general unsecured creditors, including the holders of any note obligations. Thus, any borrowing that must be done by PUB in order to make the required capital injection becomes more difficult and expensive and would adversely impact our cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Pursuant to applicable laws and regulations, the liabilities of the Bank could harm us. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, or FDIA, we may, under certain circumstances, be responsible for liabilities of the Bank and may be responsible for damages to the FDIC.. Banking agencies periodically conduct examinations of our business, including compliance with laws and regulations, and our failure to comply with any supervisory actions to which we become subject as a result of such examinations could materially and adversely affect us.. The UDFI, the FDIC, and the Federal Reserve periodically conduct examinations of our business, including compliance with laws and regulations. Accommodating such examinations may require management to reallocate resources, which would otherwise be used in the day-to-day operation of other aspects of our business. If, as a result of an examination, the UDFI or a federal banking agency were to determine that the financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity or other aspects of our operations had become unsatisfactory, or that we or our management was in violation of any law or regulation, it may take a number of different remedial actions as it deems appropriate. These actions include the power to enjoin \"unsafe or unsound\" practices, to require affirmative actions to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to issue an administrative order that can be judicially enforced, to direct an increase in our capital, to restrict our growth, to assess civil monetary penalties against us, our officers or directors, to remove officers and directors and, if it is concluded that such conditions cannot be corrected or there is an imminent risk of loss to depositors, to terminate our deposit insurance. FDIC deposit insurance is critical to the continued operation of the Bank. If we become subject to such regulatory actions, we could be materially and adversely affected.. 33. We face a risk of non-compliance and enforcement actions with respect to the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations.. Like all U.S. financial institutions, we are subject to monitoring requirements under federal law, including anti-money laundering, or AML, and Bank Secrecy Act, or BSA, matters. Since September 11, 2001, banking regulators have intensified their focus on AML and BSA compliance requirements, particularly the AML provisions of the USA Patriot Act. There is also increased scrutiny of compliance with the rules enforced by the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, which involve sanctions for dealing with certain persons or countries. While the Bank has adopted policies, procedures and controls to comply with the BSA, other AML statutes and regulations and OFAC regulations, this aggressive supervision and examination and increased likelihood of enforcement actions may increase our operating costs, which could negatively affect our results of operations and reputation.. We are subject to federal and state fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to material penalties.. Federal and state fair lending laws and regulations, such as the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and the Fair Housing Act, impose non-discriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. The FDIC, the Department of Justice, the CFPB and other federal and state agencies are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution's performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation. A successful challenge to our performance under the fair lending laws and regulations could adversely impact our rating under the Community Reinvestment Act, or CRA, and result in a wide variety of sanctions, including the required payment of damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, imposition of restrictions on merger and acquisition activity and restrictions on expansion activity, which could negatively impact our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.. Regulations relating to privacy, information security and data protection could increase our costs, affect or limit how we collect and use personal information and adversely affect our business opportunities.. We are subject to various privacy, information security and data protection laws, including requirements concerning security breach notification, and we could be negatively impacted by these laws. For example, our business is subject to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act which, among other things: (i) imposes certain limitations on our ability to share non-public personal information about our customers with non-affiliated third parties; (ii) requires that we provide certain disclosures to customers about our information collection, sharing and security practices and afford customers the right to \"opt out\" of any information sharing by us with non-affiliated third parties (with certain exceptions) and (iii) requires we develop, implement and maintain a written comprehensive information security program containing safeguards appropriate based on our size and complexity, the nature and scope of our activities, and the sensitivity of customer information we process, as well as plans for responding to data security breaches. Various state and federal banking regulators and states have also enacted data security breach notification requirements with varying levels of individual, consumer, regulatory or law enforcement notification in certain circumstances in the event of a security breach. Moreover, legislators and regulators in the United States are increasingly adopting or revising privacy, information security and data protection laws that potentially could have a significant impact on our current and planned privacy, data protection and information security-related practices, our collection, use, sharing, retention and safeguarding of consumer or employee information, and some of our current or planned business activities. This could also increase our costs of compliance and business operations and could reduce income from certain business initiatives. This includes increased privacy-related enforcement activity at the federal level, by the FTC, as well as at the state level, such as with regard to mobile applications.. Compliance with current or future privacy, data protection and information security laws (including those regarding security breach notification) affecting customer or employee data to which we are subject could result in higher compliance and technology costs and could restrict our ability to provide certain products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions or results of operations. Our failure to comply with privacy, data protection and information security laws could result in potentially significant regulatory or governmental investigations or actions, litigation, fines, sanctions and damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 34. We may be unable to, or choose not to, pay dividends on our common shares.. We have declared an annual cash dividend for over 50 years. We began declaring quarterly cash dividends in 2015 with the dividend being declared after the end of each quarter. Our ability to pay dividends depends on the following factors, among others:. •  because PUB is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank and does not conduct stand-alone operations, our ability to pay dividends depends on the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to PUB and the FDIC, the UDFI and Utah state law may, under certain circumstances, prohibit the payment of dividends to us from the Bank;. •  the Federal Reserve policy requires bank holding companies to pay cash dividends on common shares only out of net income available over the past year and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization's expected future needs and financial condition; and. •  our Board of Directors may determine that, even though funds are available for dividend payments, retaining the funds for internal uses, such as expansion of our operations, is necessary or appropriate in light of our business plan and objectives.. Such a failure to pay dividends may negatively impact your investment.. The price of our common shares may fluctuate significantly and our stock may have low trading volumes which may make it difficult for you to resell common shares owned by you at times or prices you find attractive.. The stock market and, in particular, the market for financial institution stocks, has experienced significant volatility.  The markets may produce downward pressure on stock prices for certain issuers without regard to those issuers' underlying financial strength.  As a result, the trading volume in our common shares may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur.  This may make it difficult for you to resell common shares owned by you at times or at prices you find attractive.  The low trading volume in our common shares on the Nasdaq Capital Market means that our shares may have less liquidity than other publicly traded companies.  We cannot ensure that the volume of trading in our common shares or the price of our common shares will be maintained or will increase in the future.. The impacts of recent tax reform are not yet fully known, and these and other tax regulations could be subject to potential legislative, administrative, or judicial changes or interpretations.. The tax reform bill enacted on December 22, 2017 has had, and is expected to continue to have, far-reaching and significant effects on our Company, our customers and the U.S. economy. The tax reform bill lowered the corporate federal statutory tax rate and eliminated or limited certain federal corporate deductions. It is too early to evaluate all of the potential consequences of the tax reform bill, but such consequences could include lower commercial customer borrowings, either due to the increase in cash flows as a result of the reduction in the corporate statutory tax rate or the utilization by businesses in certain sectors of alternative non-debt financing and/or early retirement of existing debt. Further, there can be no assurance that any benefits realized by us as a result of the reduction in the corporate federal statutory tax rate will ultimately result in increased net income, whether due to decreased loan yields as a result of competition or to other factors. Uncertainty also exists related to state and other taxing jurisdictions' response to federal tax reform, which will continue to be monitored and evaluated.    Federal income tax treatment of corporations may be further clarified and modified by other legislative, administrative or judicial changes or interpretations at any time. Any such changes could adversely affect us.. 35"
