[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business faces certain risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business. If any of the events or circumstances described as risks below or elsewhere in this report actually occurs, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. We rely on a few key customers, and a significant decrease in business from the loss of any one key customer or key program could substantially reduce our revenues and harm our business.. We derive a significant amount of our revenues from a few major customers. For example, net sales to our five largest customers accounted for approximately 46% of net sales in fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017 and 47% of net sales in fiscal and 2016. For fiscal 2018,. 18. two customers accounted for over 10% of net sales; Walmart accounted for 15% and The Marmaxx Group accounted for 11%. For fiscal 2017, two customers accounted for over 10% of net sales; Walmart accounted for 13% and The Marmaxx Group accounted for 10%. For fiscal 2016, three customers accounted for over 10% of net sales; Walmart accounted for 12%, The Marmaxx Group accounted for 11% and Macy's accounted for 10% of net sales, respectively.. A significant decrease in business from or loss of any of our major customers could adversely affect our financial results by causing a significant decline in our revenues. During the past several years, the retail industry has experienced a great deal of consolidation and other ownership changes, as well as management changes and store closing programs, and we expect such circumstances to continue and perhaps increase. In addition, store closings by our customers decrease the number of stores carrying our products, while the remaining stores may purchase a smaller amount of our products and may reduce the retail floor space designated for our brands. In the future, retailers may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their affiliations or reposition their stores' target markets or marketing strategies. Any of these types of actions could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the concentration within the retail industry. These changes could decrease our opportunities in the market, increase our reliance on a smaller number of large customers and decrease our negotiating strength with our customers. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We do not have long-term contracts with any of our customers and purchases generally occur on an order-by-order basis. We believe that purchasing decisions are generally made independently by individual department stores within a company-controlled group. There has been a trend, however, toward more centralized purchasing decisions. As such decisions become more centralized, the risk to us of customer concentration increases. Furthermore, our customers could curtail or cease their business with us because of changes in their strategic and operational initiatives, such as an increased focus on private label, consolidation with another retailer, changes in our customer's buying patterns, financial instability and other reasons. If our customers curtail or cease business with us, our revenues could significantly decrease and our financial condition could be significantly harmed.. Our business and financial results could be negatively affected as a result of the unsolicited go-private proposal received from George Feldenkreis.. On February 6, 2018, we received a non-binding proposal from George Feldenkreis, a current member and former Executive Chairman of our Board, and Fortress Credit Advisors LLC to acquire all of our outstanding common shares not already beneficially owned by Mr. Feldenkreis (the \"Proposal\"). On February 13, 2018, the Board authorized the formation of a special committee (the \"Special Committee\") of our Board to evaluate the Proposal. The Special Committee has hired Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP and Akerman LLP as its legal counsel and PJ SOLOMON as its financial advisor to assist in its review of the Proposal and potential strategic alternatives thereto. No decision has been made with respect to our response to the Proposal. There is no assurance that the Proposal will result in a definitive Proposal to purchase our outstanding capital stock or that any definitive agreement will be executed. These circumstances may have an adverse impact on our business, operating results and/or financial condition because, among other things:. <U+0095>   George Feldenkreis, a director of the Company, and Oscar Feldenkreis, a director and CEO of the Company, are each potentially interested in the transaction described in the Proposal, including as a result of their potential purchase (directly or indirectly) of the Company's securities in such transaction. Moreover, as the son of George Feldenkreis, Oscar Feldenkreis may be viewed as having indirect personal interests in the Proposal regardless of whether he participates in any such transaction. The potential interests of each of George and Oscar Feldenkreis (and/or entities they have interests in) could be materially different than the interests of other Company shareholders proposed to receive cash in such transaction. Such potentially conflicting interests has led to the establishment of the Special Committee, the retention of third-party advisors to the Special Committee and the establishment of an independent process to review the Company's strategic alternatives by the Special Committee.. <U+0095>   The Special Committee's evaluation of the Proposal and related matters, including potential strategic alternatives thereto, have been, and may continue to be, a significant distraction for our management and employees and have required, and may continue to require, our expenditure of significant time and resources, including, but not limited to, those related to the formation of the Special Committee and the third-party advisors the Special Committee has hired to assist in evaluating the Proposal and potential strategic alternatives thereto. Costs associated with evaluating and responding to the Proposal and potential strategic alternatives thereto have been, and may continue to be, substantial.. <U+0095>   Perceived uncertainties among current and potential customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies as to our future direction as a consequence of these circumstances may result in lost sales, weaker execution of our business strategies and the loss of potential business opportunities and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners.. <U+0095>   Actions that the Company (including any of its officers or directors) has taken, or may take, in response to the Proposal or strategic alternatives thereto, or the existence of potential or actual conflicts of interest, may result in litigation against us. If such litigation materializes, it may be a significant distraction for our management and employees and may require us to incur significant costs. Further, if determined adversely to us, such lawsuits could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. <U+0095>   The future trading price of our common stock could be subject to increased volatility based on uncertainties associated with the Proposal and potential strategic alternatives thereto.. Deteriorating economic conditions, including turmoil in the financial and credit markets, may adversely affect our business.. Deteriorating economic conditions may adversely affect our business, our customers, and our financing and other contractual arrangements. In addition, conditions may become depressed in the future or may be subject to further deterioration. Recent and future developments in the United States and global economies may lead to reductions in consumer spending, which could have an adverse effect on the sales of our products. Such events could adversely affect the business of our wholesale and retail customers, which may among other things, result in financial difficulties leading to restructuring, bankruptcies, liquidations, and other unfavorable events of our customers, and may cause such customers to reduce or discontinue orders of our products. Financial difficulties of our customers may also affect the ability of our customers to access credit markets or lead to higher credit risk relating to receivables from customers. Future turmoil in the financial and credit markets could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing or refinance existing debt when the need arises or on terms that would be acceptable to us.. Domestic and international political situations may also affect consumer confidence. The threat, outbreak or escalation of terrorism, military conflicts or other hostilities could lead to further decreases in consumer spending.. The worldwide apparel industry is highly cyclical and heavily influenced by general economic conditions, which could negatively impact our orders and our overall results of operations.. The apparel industry is highly cyclical and heavily dependent upon the overall level of consumer spending. Purchases of apparel and related goods tend to be highly correlated with cycles in the disposable income of consumers. Our wholesale customers may anticipate and respond to adverse changes in economic conditions and uncertainty by reducing inventories and canceling orders. Accordingly, a reduction in consumer spending in any of the regions in which we compete could adversely affect the sales of our products.. We may not be able to anticipate consumer preferences and fashion trends, which could negatively affect acceptance of our products by retailers and consumers and result in a significant decrease in our net sales.. Our failure to anticipate, identify and respond effectively to changing consumer demands and fashion trends could adversely. 19. affect acceptance of our products by retailers and consumers and may result in a significant decrease in net sales or leave us with a substantial amount of unsold inventory. We believe that our success depends on our ability to anticipate, identify and respond to changing fashion trends in a timely manner. Our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change. We may not be able to continue to develop appealing styles or successfully meet constantly changing consumer demands in the future. In addition, any new products or brands that we introduce may not be successfully received by retailers and consumers. Due to the acquisitions of Laundry by Shelli Segal, and Rafaella, we have increased our exposure to women's apparel, thus making us subject to additional changes in fashion trends as women's fashion trends have historically changed more rapidly than men's fashion trends. If our products are not successfully received by retailers and consumers and we are left with a substantial amount of unsold inventory, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess, slow-moving inventory. If this occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially adversely affected.. The failure of our suppliers to use acceptable ethical business practices could cause our business to suffer.. We require our suppliers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices, conflict minerals and environmental compliance. Additionally, we or our customers' operating guidelines may require additional obligations in those areas. We do not, however, control our suppliers or their labor and other business practices. If one of our suppliers violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the United States, the shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted, orders could be cancelled, relationships could be terminated and our reputation could be damaged. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and, consequently, our results of operations.. Increases in the prices of raw materials used to manufacture our products or increases in costs to transport our products could materially increase our costs and decrease our profitability.. The principal fabrics used in our business are made from cotton, wool, silk, synthetic and cotton-synthetic blends. The prices we pay for these fabrics are dependent on the market prices for the raw materials used to produce them, primarily cotton and chemical components of synthetic fabrics. These raw materials are subject to price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, government regulations, energy costs, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. Fluctuations in petroleum prices may also influence the prices of related items such as chemicals, dyestuffs and polyester yarn as well as the costs we incur to transport products from our suppliers and costs we incur to distribute products to our customers. Any raw material price increase or increase in costs related to the transport of our products (primarily petroleum costs) could increase our cost of sales and decrease our profitability unless we are able to pass higher prices on to our customers. In addition, if one or more of our competitors is able to reduce its production costs by taking greater advantage of any reductions in raw material prices or favorable sourcing agreements, we may face pricing pressures from those competitors and may be forced to reduce our prices or face a decline in net sales, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of the fabrics or other raw materials used to manufacture our products, as well as the price for labor, marketing and transportation, could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales or our ability to meet our customers' demands. The prices for such fabrics depend largely on the market prices for the raw materials used to produce them. The price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors. In the future, we may not be able to pass all or a portion of such higher prices on to our customers.. Problems with our distribution system, could impact our ability to deliver our products to the market.. We rely on owned or independently-operated distribution facilities to warehouse and ship product to our customers. These distribution systems include computer-controlled and automated equipment, which may be subject to a number of risks related to security or computer viruses, the proper operation of software and hardware, power interruptions or other system failures. Since all of. 20. our products are distributed from a relatively small number of locations, the operations could also be interrupted by earthquakes, floods, fires or other natural disasters that impact our distribution centers. We maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from the adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions in our distribution facilities. In addition, our distribution capacity is dependent on the timely performance of services by third parties, including the transportation of product to and from our distribution facilities. If we encounter problems with our distribution system, our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve operating efficiencies could be materially adversely affected.. We are dependent upon the revenues generated by brands we license from third parties, and the loss or inability to renew certain of these licenses could reduce our net income.. The interruption of the business of third parties that license their brands to us could adversely affect our net income. We currently license the Nike, PGA TOUR, Jack Nicklaus, Callaway Golf and Guy Harvey brands from third parties. These licenses vary in length of term, renewal conditions and royalty obligations. The average initial term of these licenses is three to five years with options to renew depending upon whether we achieve certain targeted sales goals. We may not be able to renew or extend any of these licenses on favorable terms, if at all. If we are unable to renew or extend any of these licenses, we could experience a decrease in net income.. We are dependent upon the revenues generated by the licensing of our brands to third parties, and the loss or inability to renew certain of these licenses could reduce our royalty income and consequently reduce our net income.. The loss of several licensees of our brands at any one time could adversely affect our royalty income and net income. Royalty income from licensing our brands to third parties accounted for $34.6 million or 4% of total revenues for fiscal 2018 and $36.0 million, or 4% of total revenues, for fiscal 2017. These licenses vary in length of term, renewal conditions and royalty obligations. The average term of these licenses is three to five years with options to renew depending upon whether certain targeted performance goals are met. We may not be able to renew or extend any of these licenses on favorable terms, if at all. If we are unable to renew or extend any of these licenses, we could experience a decrease in royalty income and net income.. Our business could be harmed if we do not deliver quality products in a timely manner.. Our sourcing, logistics and technology functions operate within substantial production and delivery requirements and subjects us to the risks associated with suppliers, transportation, distribution facilities and other risks. Labor disruptions at independent factories where our goods are produced, the shipping ports we use, or our transportation carriers create significant risks for our business, particularly if these disputes result in work slowdowns, lockouts, strikes, or other disruptions.. If we do not comply with customer product requirements or meet their delivery requirements, our customers could reduce our selling prices, require significant margin support, reduce the amount of business they do with us, or cease to do business with us, all of which could harm our business.. Our sales and operating results are influenced by seasonality, weather patterns and natural disasters.. Like other companies in the apparel industry, our sales volume may be adversely affected by unseasonable weather conditions or natural disasters, which may cause consumers to alter their purchasing habits or result in a disruption to our operations. Because of the seasonality of our business and the concentration of a significant proportion of our customers in certain geographic regions, the occurrence of such events could disproportionately impact our business, financial condition and operating results.. If any of the laws or regulations to which we are subject are amended or if new laws or regulations are adopted, compliance could become more expensive and directly affect our income.. We are subject to U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our business, including those promulgated under or by the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Consumer Product Safety Act, the Flammable Fabrics Act, the Textile Fiber Product Identification Act, the Consumer Products Safety Commission, the Department of Homeland Security and various labor, workplace and related laws, as well as environmental laws and regulations. If any of these laws are amended or new laws are adopted, our compliance could become more costly, and our failure to comply with such laws may expose us to potential liabilities, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operation or financial condition.. 21. Because we do business abroad, our business could be harmed by changes in foreign exchange rates.. Our business operations have several international components including sourcing of product, licensing and distribution arrangements and direct operations in Canada, Mexico and Europe, which expose us to foreign exchange risk and such risk may increase as we expand our international operations and licensing and distribution portfolio. Changes in exchange rates between the United States dollar and other currencies can impact our financial results in two ways; a translation impact and a transaction impact. The translation impact refers to the impact that changes in exchange rates can have on our published financial results, as our revenue and profit earned in local foreign currencies is translated into United States dollars using an average exchange rate over the representative period. Accordingly, during times of a strengthening United States dollar, particularly against the British Pound, the Canadian dollar, and the Mexican Peso, our results of operations will be negatively impacted, as was the case during fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016, and during times of a weakening United States dollar, our results of operations will be favorably impacted as was the case in fiscal 2018.. \"Transaction\" impact refers to settlement of inventory payment or receivables collected in other than local currency that can have a favorable impact when the local currency is strong and an unfavorable impact when the foreign currency is stronger. In accordance with our operating practices, we hedge a portion of our foreign currency transaction exposures arising in the ordinary course of business to reduce risks in our cash flows and earnings. Our hedging strategy may not be effective in reducing all risks, and no hedging strategy can completely insulate us from foreign exchange risk. We do not hedge foreign currency translation rate changes. Further, our use of derivative financial instruments may expose us to counterparty risks. Although we only enter into hedging contracts with counterparties having investment grade credit ratings, it is possible that the credit quality of a counterparty could be downgraded or a counterparty could default on its obligations, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Although we have not been affected in a material way by any of the foregoing factors, we cannot predict the likelihood or frequency of any such events occurring and any material disruption may have an adverse effect on our business.. We may face challenges integrating the operations of our acquired brands or any businesses we may acquire, which may negatively impact our business.. As part of our strategy of making selective acquisitions, we acquire new brands and product categories. Acquisitions have inherent risks, including the risk that the projected sales and net income from the acquisition may not be generated, the risk that the integration is more costly and takes longer than anticipated, risks of retaining key personnel, and risks associated with unanticipated events and unknown legal liabilities. Any of these and other risks may harm our business. We cannot assure you that any acquisition will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. With respect to acquisitions, we may face challenges in consolidating functions and integrating management procedures, personnel and operations in an efficient and effective manner, which if not managed as projected, could negatively impact our business. Some of these challenges included increased demands on management related to the significant increase in the size and diversity of our business after the acquisition, the dedication of management's attention to implement our strategies for the business, the retention and integration of key employees, determining aspects of the acquired business that were to be kept separate and distinct from our other businesses, and difficulties in assimilating corporate culture and practices into ours.. We have outstanding debt, which could have important negative consequences to us, including making it difficult for us to satisfy all of our obligations in the event we experience financial difficulties.. As of February 3, 2018, we had approximately $94.6 million of debt outstanding as compared to approximately $106.6 million as of January 28, 2017 (excluding amounts outstanding under our letter of credit facility). Our indebtedness could have important consequences, including:. <U+0095>   making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our senior subordinated notes,. 22. <U+0095>   increasing our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions, as we are required to devote a proportionally greater amount of our cash flow to paying principal and interest on our debt,. <U+0095>   limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund large capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate requirements,. <U+0095>   requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes,. <U+0095>   increasing our vulnerability to adverse changes in governmental regulations,. <U+0095>   limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, and. <U+0095>   placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors during periods in which we experience lower earnings and cash flow.. Our ability to pay interest on our indebtedness and to satisfy our other debt obligations will depend upon, among other things, our future operating performance and cash flow and possibly our ability to refinance indebtedness when necessary. Each of these factors is, to a large extent, dependent on general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. If, in the future, we cannot generate sufficient cash from operations to make scheduled payments on our indebtedness or to meet our liquidity needs or other obligations, we will need to refinance our existing debt, obtain additional financing or sell assets. If we are unable to do so, we cannot assure you that we will be able otherwise to renegotiate or refinance any of our debt, or obtain additional debt, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow, or that we will be able to obtain funding sufficient to satisfy our debt service requirements.. Our profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on our product prices.. The apparel industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products and changes in consumer spending patterns. These factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, which could cause our gross margin to decline. If we fail to adequately manage our product costs or operating expenses, our profitability will decline. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.. Our ability to conduct business in international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks.. Our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets is subject to risks associated with international operations. These include:. <U+0095>   the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations,. <U+0095>   compliance with U.S. and other country laws relating to foreign operations, including U.S. and foreign anti-corruption laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits U.S. companies from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business,. <U+0095>   unexpected changes in regulatory requirements,. <U+0095>   new tariffs or other barriers in some international markets,. 23. <U+0095>   political instability and terrorist attacks,. <U+0095>   changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, and. <U+0095>   general economic fluctuations in specific countries or markets.. We cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes, or other similar restrictions will be imposed by the United States, the European Union, countries in Asia, or other countries upon the import or export of our products in the future, or what effect any of these actions would have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in regulatory, geopolitical, social or economic policies and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our business in the future or may require us to significantly modify our current business practices.. In addition, the new U.S. administration has publicly supported potential trade proposals, including import tariffs, tariffs (including the Trump administration's recent introduction of tariffs on China and China's retaliatory tariffs on certain products from the U.S.), modifications to international trade policy, and other changes that may affect U.S. trade relations with other countries, any of which may require us to significantly modify our current business practices or may otherwise materially impact our business.. We operate in a highly competitive and fragmented industry and our failure to successfully compete could result in a loss of one or more significant customers.. The apparel industry is highly competitive and fragmented. Our competitors include numerous apparel designers, manufacturers, importers and licensors, many of which have greater financial and marketing resources than us. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the apparel industry are:. <U+0095>   brand name and brand identity,. <U+0095>   timeliness, reliability and quality of services provided,. <U+0095>   market share and visibility,. <U+0095>   the ability to obtain sufficient retail floor space,. <U+0095>   price, and. <U+0095>   the ability to anticipate customer and consumer demands and maintain appeal of products to customers.. The level of competition and the nature of our competitors vary by product segment with low-margin, mass-market manufacturers being our main competitors in the less expensive segment of the market and U.S. and foreign designers and licensors competing with us in the more upscale segment of the market. If we do not maintain our brand names and identities and continue to provide high quality and reliable services on a timely basis at competitive prices, we may not be able to continue to successfully compete in our industry. If we are unable to compete successfully, we could lose one or more of our significant customers, which, if not replaced, could negatively impact our sales and financial performance.. Our ability to attract customers to our stores, the stores of our largest customers that are located in regional malls and other shopping centers depends heavily on the success of the malls and the centers in which these stores are located, and any decrease in customer traffic to these malls and centers could cause our sales to be less than expected, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow.. The majority of our current stores and our largest customer's stores are located in shopping malls and other retail centers. Sales at these stores are derived in considerable part from the volume of traffic generated in those malls or retail centers and surrounding areas. To take advantage of customer traffic and the shopping preferences of our customers, we and our largest customers need to maintain or acquire stores in desirable locations where competition for suitable store locations is strong. These stores benefit from the ability of. 24. nearby tenants to generate consumer traffic near these stores, and the continuing popularity of the regional malls and outlet, lifestyle and power centers where these stores are located. Customer traffic and, in turn, our sales volume may be adversely affected by a wide variety of factors. A continued reduction in customer traffic could result in lower sales and leave us with excess inventory. In such circumstances, we may have to respond by increasing markdowns or initiating marketing promotions to reduce excess inventory, which could adversely impact our financial results and business.. If we are unable to compete effectively with the growing e-commerce sector, our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.. With the continued expansion of Internet use, as well as mobile computing devices and smart phones, competition from the e-commerce sector continues to grow. There can be no assurance we will be able to grow our e-commerce business in a profitable manner. Certain of our competitors, and a number of e-commerce retailers, have established e-commerce operations against which we compete for customers. The increasing competition from the e-commerce sector may reduce our market share, gross margin, and operating margin, and may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations in other ways.. Our balance sheet includes intangible assets. A decline in the estimated fair value of an intangible asset or of a reporting unit could result in an impairment charge recorded in our operating results, which could be material.. Indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment annually and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate the carrying amount may be impaired. Also, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment if an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If the carrying value of an intangible asset were to exceed its fair value, the asset would be written down to its fair value, with the impairment charge recognized as a noncash expense in our operating results. Adverse changes in future market conditions or weaker operating results compared to our expectations may impact our projected cash flows and estimates of weighted average cost of capital, which could result in a potentially material impairment charge if we are unable to recover the carrying value of our intangible assets.. Our success depends upon the continued protection of our trademarks and other intellectual property rights.. Our registered and common law trademarks, as well as certain of our licensed trademarks, have significant value and are instrumental to our ability to market our products. Our failure to successfully protect our intellectual property rights, or the substantial costs that we may incur in doing so, may have an adverse effect on our operations.. We may have additional tax liabilities.. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions. In addition to judgments associated with valuation accounts, our current tax provision can be affected by our mix of income and identification or resolution of uncertain tax positions. Because income from domestic and international sources may be taxed at different rates, the shift in mix during a year or over years can cause the effective tax rate to change. We regularly are under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of our tax liabilities as a result of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made.. The recently enacted Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") has resulted in significant changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system. These changes include, but are not limited to, requiring a one-time transition tax on certain unrepatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries that is payable over eight years (the \"Transition Tax\"). The Tax Act also establishes new tax laws that will affect fiscal 2019 and later years, including, but not limited to, a reduction of the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, a general elimination of U.S. federal income taxes on dividends from foreign subsidiaries, makes certain changes to the depreciation rules, and. 25. additional limitations on executive compensation. Finally, while the Tax Act provides for a territorial tax system, beginning in fiscal 2019, it includes two new U.S. tax base erosion provisions, the global intangible low-taxed income (\"GILTI\") provisions and the base-erosion and anti-abuse tax (\"BEAT\") provisions.. Our preliminary estimate of the Transition Toll Tax and the remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities is subject to the finalization of management's analysis related to certain matters, such as developing interpretations of the provisions of the Tax Act, changes to certain estimates and amounts related to the earnings and profits of certain subsidiaries and the filing of our tax returns. U.S. Treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions interpreting the Tax Act may require further adjustments and changes in our estimates, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial conditions. Given the timing, scope, and magnitude of the changes enacted by the Tax Act, along with on-going implementation efforts, guidance, and other developments from U.S. regulatory and standard-setting bodies, the completion of the accounting for certain tax items of the Tax Act, that have been reported as provisional, or where no estimate of the impact was provided as a result of us not having the necessary information, may be subject to material change. Any significant changes to our future effective tax rate, including final resolution of provisional amounts relating to effects of the 2017 Tax Act, may result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. Finally, because we are subject to taxation by the various taxing authorities at the federal, state and local levels where we do business, further legislation or regulation which could affect our tax burden could be enacted by any of these governmental authorities. We cannot predict the timing or extent of such tax-related developments which could have a negative impact on our financial results.. We depend on certain key personnel the loss of which could negatively impact our ability to manage our business.. Our future success depends to a significant extent on retaining the services of certain executive officers and directors. The loss of the services of any of our key members of management could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. Our continued success is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management and operational personnel to support our future growth. Our inability to do so may have a significant negative impact on our ability to manage our business.. We rely significantly on the use of information technology. Cybersecurity risks - any technology failures causing a material disruption to operational technology or cyber-attacks on our systems affecting our ability to protect the integrity and security of customer and employee information could harm our reputation and/or could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our business.. We increasingly rely on information technology systems to process, transmit and store electronic information. A significant portion of the communication between personnel, customers and suppliers depends on information technology. We use information technology systems and networks in our operations and supporting departments such as marketing, accounting, finance, and human resources. The future success and growth of our business depend on streamlined processes made available through information systems, global communications, internet activity and other network processes.. Like most companies, despite our current security measures, our information technology systems, and those of our third-party service providers, may be vulnerable to information security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses and interruption or loss of valuable business data. Stored data might be improperly accessed due to a variety of events beyond our control, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hackers and other security issues. Our technology security initiatives and disaster recovery may not be adequate or implemented properly to ensure that our operations are not disrupted or that data security breaches do not occur. Any disruption to these systems or networks could result in product fulfillment delays, key personnel being unable to perform duties or communicate throughout the organization, loss of retail and internet sales, significant costs for data restoration and other adverse impacts on our business and reputation.. 26. Hackers and data thieves are increasingly sophisticated and operate large-scale and complex automated attacks. Any breach of our network may result in the loss of valuable business data, misappropriation of our consumers' or employees' personal information, or a disruption of our business. If our network was compromised, it could give rise to unwanted media attention, materially damage our customer relationships, harm our business, reputation, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, result in fines or lawsuits, and may increase the costs we incur to protect against such information security breaches, such as increased investment in technology, the costs of compliance with consumer protection laws and costs resulting from consumer fraud."
