[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The statements in this Section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. In addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.. Our disclosure and analysis in this 2017 Form 10-K and in our 2017 Annual Report to Shareholders contain forward-looking statements. From time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public, as well as oral forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. We have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as \"will,\" \"may,\" \"could,\" \"likely,\" \"ongoing,\" \"anticipate,\" \"estimate,\" \"expect,\" \"project,\" \"intend,\" \"plan,\" \"believe,\" \"assume,\" \"target,\" \"forecast,\" \"guidance,\" \"goal,\" \"objective,\" \"aim\" and other words and terms of similar meaning or by using future dates in connection with any discussion of, among other things, our anticipated operating and financial performance, business plans and prospects, in-line products and product candidates, including anticipated regulatory submissions, data read-outs, approvals, performance, timing of exclusivity and potential benefits of Pfizer's products and product candidates, strategic reviews, capital allocation, business-development plans, manufacturing and product supply and plans relating to share repurchases and dividends. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, business plans and prospects, our acquisitions and other business development activities, the disposition of the HIS net assets, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, plans relating to share repurchases and dividends, government regulation and financial results, including, in particular, the availability of raw materials for 2018 set forth in Item 1. Business -  - Raw Materials in this 2017 Form 10-K; the expected impact of the recent hurricanes in Puerto Rico set forth in the Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook -  - Our Business -  - Impact of Recent Hurricanes in Puerto Rico section in our 2017 Financial Report; the anticipated progress in remediation efforts at certain of our Hospira manufacturing facilities set forth in the Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook -  - Our Business -  - Product Manufacturing section in our 2017 Financial Report; the anticipated timeframe for any decision regarding strategic alternatives for Pfizer Consumer Healthcare set forth in the Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook -  - Our Strategy -  - Our Business Development Initiatives section in our 2017 Financial Report; our anticipated liquidity position set forth in the Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook -  - The Global Economic Environment and the Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources sections in the 2017 Financial Report; the financial impact of the recently passed Tax Cuts and Jobs Act set forth in the Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook -  - The Global Economic Environment, Significant Accounting Policies and Application of Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions - Income Tax Assets and Liabilities, Provision/(Benefit) for Taxes on Income - Changes in Tax Laws and Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources - Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources - Contractual Obligations sections in our 2017 Financial Report and in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - Note 1. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies and  - Note 5. Tax Matters; plans relating to increasing investment in the U.S. following the expected positive net impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act set forth in the Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook -  - Our Strategy -  - Capital Allocation and Expense Management section in our 2017 Financial Report; the financial guidance set forth in the Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook - Our Financial Guidance for 2018 section in our 2017 Financial Report; the anticipated costs and cost savings, including from our acquisition of Hospira and our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives, set forth in the Costs and Expenses - Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives section in our 2017 Financial Report and in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - Note 3. Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives; the expected plan for repatriating the majority of our cash held internationally in 2018 set forth in the Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources - Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources - Domestic and International Short-Term Funds section in our 2017 Financial Report; the benefits expected from our business development transactions; the planned capital spending set forth in the Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources - Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources - Contractual Obligations section in our 2017 Financial Report; and the contributions that we expect to make from our general assets to the Company's pension and postretirement plans during 2018 set forth in the Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources - Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources - Contractual Obligations section and in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - Note 11. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans in our 2017 Financial Report.. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized. Achievement of anticipated results is subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements, and you are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward-looking statements.. We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law or by the rules and regulations of the SEC. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects. Also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, may cause our actual results to differ materially from expected, projected or historical results. We note these factors. Pfizer Inc. 2017 Form 10-K 10. TABLE OF CONTENTS. for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS, INDUSTRY AND OPERATIONS:. MANAGED CARE TRENDS. Consolidation among MCOs has increased the negotiating power of MCOs and other private insurers. Private third-party insurers, as well as governments, increasingly employ formularies to control costs by negotiating discounted prices in exchange for formulary inclusion. Failure to obtain or maintain timely or adequate pricing or formulary placement for our products or obtaining such pricing or placement at unfavorable pricing could adversely impact revenue. In addition to formulary tier co-pay differentials, private health insurance companies and self-insured employers have been raising co-payments required from beneficiaries, particularly for branded pharmaceuticals and biotechnology products. They are also trying newer programs like copay accumulators to shift more of the cost burden to manufacturers and patients. This cost shifting has given consumers greater control of medication choices, as they pay for a larger portion of their prescription costs and may cause consumers to favor lower cost generic alternatives to branded pharmaceuticals. MCOs also use additional measures such as new-to-market blocks, exclusion lists, indication-based pricing, and value-based pricing/contracting to improve their cost containment efforts. Private health insurance companies also are increasingly imposing utilization management tools, such as clinical protocols, requiring prior authorization for a branded product if a generic product is available or requiring the patient to first fail on one or more generic products before permitting access to a branded medicine. As the U.S. payer market concentrates further and as more drugs become available in generic form, biopharmaceutical companies may face greater pricing pressure from private third-party payers, who will continue to drive more of their patients to use lower cost generic alternatives.. GENERIC COMPETITION. Competition from manufacturers of generic drugs is a major challenge for our branded products around the world, and the loss or expiration of intellectual property rights can have a significant adverse effect on our revenues. The date at which generic competition commences may be different from the date that the patent or regulatory exclusivity expires. However, upon the loss or expiration of patent protection for one of our products, or upon the \"at-risk\" launch (despite pending patent infringement litigation against the generic product) by a generic manufacturer of a generic version of one of our patented products, we can lose the major portion of revenues for that product in a very short period of time, which can adversely affect our business. A number of our products are expected to face significantly increased generic competition over the next few years.. Also, generic manufacturers have filed applications with the FDA seeking approval of product candidates that such companies claim do not infringe our patents; these include candidates that would compete with, among other products, Xeljanz and Xtandi. Our licensing and collaboration partners also face challenges by generic drug manufacturers to patents covering products for which we have licenses or co-promotion rights. In addition, our patent-protected products may face competition in the form of generic versions of competitors' branded products that lose their market exclusivity.. COMPETITIVE PRODUCTS. We cannot predict with accuracy the timing or impact of the introduction of competitive products, including new product entrants, in-line branded products, generic products, private label products, biosimilars and product candidates that treat diseases and conditions similar to those treated by our in-line drugs and drug candidates. The introduction of competitive products can result in erosion of the sales of our existing products and potential sales of products in development, as well as unanticipated product obsolescence. Competitive product launches have occurred in recent years, and certain potentially competitive products are in various stages of development, some of which have been filed for approval with the FDA and with regulatory authorities in other countries.. We also produce generic and biosimilar pharmaceutical products that compete with products from competitors, including other generic and biosimilar manufacturers. The ability to launch a generic or biosimilar pharmaceutical product at or before the anticipated formation of the generic or biosimilar marketplace is important to that product's profitability. Prices for products typically decline, sometimes dramatically, following generic or biosimilar entry, and as additional companies receive approvals to market that product, competition intensifies. If a company's generic or biosimilar product can be \"first-to-market\" such that its only competition is the branded drug for a period of time, higher levels of sales and profitability can be achieved until other generic or biosimilar competitors enter the market. With increasing competition in the generic or biosimilar product market, the timeliness with which we can market new generic or biosimilar products will increase in importance. Our success will depend on our ability to bring new products to market quickly. Also, we may face access challenges for our biosimilar products where our product may not receive access at parity to the innovator product and remains in a disadvantaged position. For example, Inflectra/Remsima has experienced access challenges among commercial payers. In September 2017, Pfizer filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania against Johnson & Johnson (J&J) alleging that J&J's exclusionary contracts and other anticompetitive practices concerning Remicade® (infliximab) violate federal antitrust laws.. Pfizer Inc. 2017 Form 10-K 11. TABLE OF CONTENTS. DEPENDENCE ON KEY IN-LINE PRODUCTS. We recorded direct product and/or alliance revenues of more than $1 billion for each of nine biopharmaceutical products in 2017: Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13, Lyrica, Ibrance, Eliquis, Enbrel, Lipitor, Xeljanz, Viagra and Sutent. Those products accounted for 46% of our total revenues in 2017. If these products or any of our other major products were to become subject to problems such as loss of patent protection (if applicable), changes in prescription growth rates, material product liability litigation, unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity affecting doctor or patient confidence, pressure from existing competitive products, changes in labeling, access pressures or, if a new, more effective treatment should be introduced, the adverse impact on our revenues could be significant. Patents covering several of our best-selling medicines have recently expired or will expire in the next few years (including some of our billion-dollar and previously billion-dollar products), and patents covering a number of our best-selling medicines are, or have been, the subject of pending legal challenges. For example, as a result of a patent litigation settlement, Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. launched a generic version of Viagra in the U.S. in December 2017. In addition, our revenues could be significantly impacted by the timing and rate of commercial acceptance of key new products. For additional information, see the Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook -  - Our Operating Environment - Industry-Specific Challenges - Intellectual Property Rights and Collaboration/Licensing Rights - Recent Losses and Expected Losses of Product Exclusivity section in our 2017 Financial Report.. Further, our Alliance revenues will be adversely affected by the termination or expiration of collaboration and co-promotion agreements that we have entered into and that we may enter into from time to time. For additional information on recent losses of collaborations rights, see the Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook -  - Our Operating Environment - Industry-Specific Challenges - Intellectual Property Rights and Collaboration/Licensing Rights - Recent Losses of Collaboration Rights section in our 2017 Financial Report.. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENT. The discovery and development of safe, effective new products, as well as the development of additional uses for existing products, are necessary for the continued strength of our businesses. Our product lines must be replenished over time in order to offset revenue losses when products lose their market exclusivity, as well as to provide for earnings growth. Our growth potential depends in large part on our ability to identify and develop new products or new indications for existing products that address unmet medical needs and receive reimbursement from payers, either through internal R&D or through collaborations, acquisitions, joint ventures or licensing or other arrangements with third parties. However, balancing current growth, investment for future growth and the delivery of shareholder return remains a major challenge. The average costs of product development continue to rise, as do the regulatory requirements in many therapeutic areas, which may affect the number of candidates funded as well as the sustainability of the R&D portfolio. Our ongoing investments in new product introductions and in R&D for new products and existing product extensions could exceed corresponding sales growth.. Additionally, our R&D investment plans and resources may not be correctly matched between science and markets, and failure to invest in the right technology platforms, therapeutic segments, product classes, geographic markets and/or in-licensing and out-licensing opportunities in order to deliver a robust pipeline could adversely impact the productivity of our pipeline. Further, even if the areas with the greatest market attractiveness are identified, the science may not work for any given program despite the significant investment required for R&D, and the commercial potential of the product may not be as competitive as expected because of the highly dynamic market environment and the hurdles in terms of access and reimbursement.. We continue to strengthen our global R&D organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in R&D to achieve a sustainable pipeline that will deliver value in the near term and over time. There can be no assurance that these strategies will deliver the desired result, which could affect profitability in the future.. BIOTECHNOLOGY PRODUCTS. Abbreviated legal pathways for the approval of biosimilars exist in certain international markets and, since the passage of the ACA, a framework for such approval exists in the U.S. If competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for biosimilars referencing our biotechnology products, our biotechnology products may become subject to competition from these biosimilars, with attendant competitive pressure, and price reductions could follow. For example, Enbrel faces ongoing biosimilar competition in most developed Europe markets, which is expected to continue. The expiration or successful challenge of applicable patent rights could trigger this competition, assuming any relevant regulatory exclusivity period has expired. We may face litigation with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to our biotechnology products.. We are developing biosimilar medicines. The evolving pathway for registration and approval of biosimilar products by the FDA and regulatory authorities in certain other countries could diminish the value of our investments in biosimilars. Other risks related to our development of biosimilars include the potential for steeper than anticipated price erosion due to increased competitive intensity, coupled with high costs associated with clinical development or intellectual property challenges that may preclude timely commercialization of our potential biosimilar products. There is also a risk of lower prescriptions for biosimilars due to potential concerns over comparability with innovator medicines. See also the Competitive Products risk factor above.. Pfizer Inc. 2017 Form 10-K 12. TABLE OF CONTENTS. RESEARCH STUDIES. Decisions about research studies made early in the development process of a drug or vaccine candidate can have a substantial impact on the marketing strategy and payer reimbursement possibilities if it receives regulatory approval. For example, a wider range of studies can lead to approval for a broader set of indications that may impact the marketing and payer reimbursement process. However, each additional indication must be balanced against the time and resources required to demonstrate benefit, the increased complexity of development and the potential delays to approval of the lead indication. We try to plan clinical trials prudently and to reasonably anticipate and address challenges, but there is no guarantee that an optimal balance between trial conduct, speed and desired outcome will be achieved each time. The degree to which such potential challenges are foreseen and addressed could affect our future results.. RISKS AFFECTING INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS. Our international operations could be affected by currency fluctuations, capital and exchange controls, expropriation and other restrictive government actions, changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, and marketing of, reimbursement for and access to our products, as well as by political unrest, unstable governments and legal systems and inter-governmental disputes. Any of these changes could adversely affect our business.. Many emerging markets have experienced growth rates in excess of developed markets, leading to an increased contribution to the industry's global performance. As a result, we have been employing strategies to grow in emerging markets. However, there is no assurance that our strategies in emerging markets will be successful or that these countries will continue to sustain these growth rates. In addition, some emerging market countries may be particularly vulnerable to periods of financial or political instability or significant currency fluctuations or may have limited resources for healthcare spending. Even though we constantly monitor the evolving emerging markets for any unanticipated risk to Pfizer, certain financial or political events in such markets, as discussed above, can adversely affect our results.. SPECIALTY PHARMACEUTICALS. Specialty pharmaceuticals are medicines that treat rare or life-threatening conditions that typically have smaller patient populations. The growing availability and use of innovative specialty pharmaceuticals, combined with their relative higher cost as compared to other types of pharmaceutical products, has generated payer interest in developing cost-containment strategies targeted to this sector. The impact of payers' efforts to control access to and pricing of specialty pharmaceuticals is increasing. For Pfizer to date, a number of factors create a more challenging paradigm given our growing specialty business portfolio. These include formulary restrictions and dispensation barriers, such as step edits, leading to higher negotiated rebates or discounts to health plans and PBMs in the U.S., as well as the increasing use of health technology assessments in markets around the world.. CONSUMER HEALTHCARE. The Consumer Healthcare business may be impacted by economic volatility, the timing and severity of the cough, cold and flu season, generic or store brand competition affecting consumer spending patterns and market share gains of competitors' branded products or generic store brands. In addition, regulatory and legislative outcomes regarding the safety, efficacy or unintended uses of specific ingredients in our Consumer Healthcare products may require withdrawal, reformulation and/or relabeling of certain products (e.g., cough/cold products). See The Global Economic Environment and Strategic Alternatives for Pfizer Consumer Healthcare risk factors below.. PRODUCT MANUFACTURING, SALES AND MARKETING RISKS. Difficulties or delays in product manufacturing, sales or marketing could affect future results through regulatory actions, shut-downs, approval delays, withdrawals, recalls, penalties, supply disruptions or shortages, reputational harm, product liability, unanticipated costs or otherwise. Examples of such difficulties or delays include, but are not limited to, the inability to increase production capacity commensurate with demand; the failure to predict market demand for, or to gain market acceptance of, approved products; the possibility that the supply of incoming materials may be delayed or become unavailable and that the quality of incoming materials may be substandard and not detected; the possibility that we may fail to maintain appropriate quality standards throughout the internal and external supply network and/or comply with cGMPs and other applicable regulations such as serialization (which allows for track and trace of products in the supply chain to enhance patient safety); risks to supply chain continuity and commercial operations as a result of natural (including hurricanes, earthquakes and floods) or man-made disasters at our facilities or at a supplier or vendor, including those that may be related to climate change; or failure to maintain the integrity of our supply chains against intentional and criminal acts such as economic adulteration, product diversion, product theft, counterfeit goods and cyberattacks.. Regulatory agencies periodically inspect our drug manufacturing facilities to evaluate compliance with applicable cGMP requirements. Failure to comply with these requirements may subject us to possible legal or regulatory actions, such as warning letters, suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product, injunctions, debarment or voluntary recall of a product, any of. Pfizer Inc. 2017 Form 10-K 13. TABLE OF CONTENTS. which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In February 2017, we received a warning letter from the FDA communicating the FDA's view that certain violations of cGMP regulations exist at Hospira's manufacturing facility in McPherson, Kansas. We are undertaking corrective actions to address the concerns raised by the FDA. In January 2018, the FDA upgraded the status of Pfizer's McPherson, Kansas manufacturing facility to Voluntary Action Indicated (VAI) based on an October 2017 inspection. The change to VAI status will lift the compliance hold that the FDA placed on approval of pending applications, and is an important step toward resolving the issues cited in the February 2017 FDA warning letter. In addition, in September 2017, Meridian, a subsidiary of Pfizer Inc., received a warning letter from the FDA asserting the FDA's view that certain violations of cGMP and Quality System Regulations exist at Meridian's manufacturing sites in St. Louis, Missouri. We are undertaking corrective actions to address the concerns raised by the FDA, and communication with the FDA is ongoing. Until the corrective actions are implemented and approved by the FDA, the FDA may refuse to grant premarket approval of applications and/or the FDA may refuse to grant export certificates related to products manufactured at our St. Louis, Missouri sites.. OUTSOURCING AND ENTERPRISE RESOURCE PLANNING. We outsource certain services to third parties in areas including transaction processing, accounting, information technology, manufacturing, clinical trial execution, clinical lab services, non-clinical research, safety services, integrated facilities management and other areas. For example, in 2017, we placed the majority of our clinical trial execution services with four Clinical Research Organizations (CROs). Service performance issues with these CROs may adversely impact the progression of our clinical trial programs. Outsourcing of services to third parties could expose us to sub-optimal quality of service delivery or deliverables, which may result in repercussions such as missed deadlines or other timeliness issues, erroneous data, supply disruptions, non-compliance (including with applicable legal requirements and industry standards) or reputational harm, with potential negative implications for our results.. We are migrating to a consistent enterprise resource planning system across the organization. These are enhancements of ongoing activities to standardize our financial systems. If any difficulties in the migration to or in the operation of our enterprise resource planning system were to occur, they could adversely affect our operations, including, among other ways, through a failure to meet demand for our products, or adversely affect our ability to meet our financial reporting obligations.. COLLABORATIONS AND OTHER RELATIONSHIPS WITH THIRD PARTIES. We depend on third-party collaborators, service providers, and others in the research, development and commercialization of our products and product candidates and also enter into joint ventures and other business development transactions in connection with our business. To achieve expected longer term benefits, we may make substantial upfront payments in such transactions, which may negatively impact our reported earnings. We rely heavily on these parties for multiple aspects of our drug development, manufacturing and commercialization activities, but we do not control many aspects of those activities. Third parties may not complete activities on schedule or in accordance with our expectations. Failure by one or more of these third parties to meet their contractual or other obligations to Pfizer; failure of one or more of these parties to comply with applicable laws or regulations; or any disruption in the relationships between Pfizer and one or more of these third parties, could delay or prevent the development, approval or commercialization of our products and product candidates and could also result in non-compliance or reputational harm, all with potential negative implications for our product pipeline and business.. BIOPHARMACEUTICAL WHOLESALERS. In 2017, our largest biopharmaceutical wholesaler accounted for approximately 16% of our total revenues (and approximately 33% of our total U.S. revenues), and our top three biopharmaceutical wholesalers accounted for approximately 38% of our total revenues (and approximately 79% of our total U.S. revenues). If one of our significant biopharmaceutical wholesalers should encounter financial or other difficulties, such wholesaler might decrease the amount of business that it does with us, and we might be unable to collect all the amounts that the wholesaler owes us on a timely basis or at all, which could negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, we expect that consolidation and integration of pharmacy chains and wholesalers will increase competitive and pricing pressures on pharmaceutical manufacturers, including us.. BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES. We expect to continue to enhance our in-line products and product pipeline through collaborations, alliances, license and funding agreements, joint ventures, equity- or debt-based investments, mergers and acquisitions. However, these enhancement plans are subject to the availability and cost of appropriate opportunities, competition from other pharmaceutical companies that are seeking similar opportunities and our ability to successfully identify, structure and execute transactions, including the ability to satisfy the conditions to closing of announced transactions in the anticipated timeframe or at all, and integrate acquisitions. Further, while we seek to mitigate risks and liabilities of such transactions through, among other things, due diligence, there may be risks and liabilities that such due diligence efforts fail to discover, that are not disclosed to us, or that we inadequately assess. Legal proceedings or regulatory issues often arise as a result of activities that occurred at acquired companies, their partners and other third parties. In 2016, for example, we paid $784.6 million to resolve allegations related to Wyeth's reporting of prices to the government with respect to Protonix for activities that occurred prior to our. Pfizer Inc. 2017 Form 10-K 14. TABLE OF CONTENTS. acquisition of Wyeth. Additionally, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of such transactions, including the possibility that expected synergies and accretion will not be realized or will not be realized within the expected time frame.. COUNTERFEIT PRODUCTS. A counterfeit medicine is one that has been deliberately and fraudulently mislabeled as to its identity and source. A counterfeit Pfizer medicine, therefore, is one manufactured by someone other than Pfizer, but which appears to be the same as an authentic Pfizer medicine. The prevalence of counterfeit medicines is a significant and growing industry-wide issue due to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the following: the widespread use of the Internet, which has greatly facilitated the ease by which counterfeit medicines can be advertised, purchased and delivered to individual patients; the availability of sophisticated technology that makes it easier for counterfeiters to make counterfeit medicines; the growing involvement in the medicine supply chain of under-regulated wholesalers and repackagers; the lack of adequate inspection at certain international postal facilities as counterfeit medicines are increasingly delivered direct to customers in small parcel packages; and the relatively modest risk of penalties faced by counterfeiters compared to the large profits that can be earned by them from the sale of counterfeit medicines. Further, laws against pharmaceutical counterfeiting vary greatly from country to country, and the enforcement of existing law varies greatly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. For example, in some countries, pharmaceutical counterfeiting is not a crime; in others, it may result in only minimal sanctions. In addition, those involved in the distribution of counterfeit medicines use complex transport routes in order to evade customs controls by disguising the true source of their products.. Pfizer's global reputation makes its medicines prime targets for counterfeiting organizations. Counterfeit medicines pose a risk to patient health and safety because of the conditions under which they are manufactured - often in unregulated, unlicensed, uninspected and unsanitary sites - as well as the lack of regulation of their contents. Failure to mitigate the threat of counterfeit medicines, which is exacerbated by the complexity of the supply chain, could adversely impact our business, by, among other things, causing the loss of patient confidence in the Pfizer name and in the integrity of our medicines, potentially resulting in lost sales, product recalls, and an increased threat of litigation.. We undertake significant efforts to counteract the threats associated with counterfeit medicines, including, among other things, working with the FDA and other regulatory authorities and multinational coalitions to combat the counterfeiting of medicines and supporting efforts by law enforcement authorities to prosecute counterfeiters; assessing new and existing technologies to seek to make it more difficult for counterfeiters to copy our products and easier for patients and healthcare providers to distinguish authentic from counterfeit medicines; implementing business practices designed to protect patient health; promoting public policies intended to hinder counterfeiting; working diligently to raise public awareness about the dangers of counterfeit medicines; and working collaboratively with wholesalers, pharmacies, customs offices, and law enforcement agencies to increase inspection coverage, monitor distribution channels, and improve surveillance of distributors and repackagers. No assurance can be given, however, that our efforts and the efforts of others will be entirely successful, and the presence of counterfeit medicines may continue to increase.. RISKS RELATED TO GOVERNMENT REGULATION AND LEGAL PROCEEDINGS:. PRICING AND REIMBURSEMENT. U.S. and international governmental regulations that mandate price controls and limitations on patient access to our products or establish prices paid by government entities or programs for our products impact our business, and our future results could be adversely affected by changes in such regulations or policies.. In the U.S., many of our products are subject to increasing pricing pressures. Pharmaceutical product pricing is subject to enhanced government and public scrutiny and calls for reform. Some states have implemented, and other states are considering, pharmaceutical price controls or patient access constraints under the Medicaid program, and some states are considering price-control regimes that would apply to broader segments of their populations that are not Medicaid-eligible. Efforts by government officials or legislators to implement measures to regulate prices or payments for pharmaceutical products, including legislation on drug importation, could adversely affect our business if implemented. Private third-party payers, such as health plans, increasingly challenge pharmaceutical product pricing, which could result in lower prices, lower reimbursement rates and a reduction in demand for our products. Pricing pressures for our products may occur as a result of highly competitive insurance markets. Healthcare provider purchasers, directly or through group purchasing organizations, are seeking enhanced discounts or implementing more rigorous bidding or purchasing review processes.. We encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. In certain international markets, such as Europe, Japan, China, Canada and South Korea, governments have significant power as large single payers to regulate prices, access criteria (e.g., through public or private health technology assessments), or other means of cost control, particularly under recent global financing pressures. As a result, we expect that pressures on the pricing component of operating results will continue.. The adoption of restrictive price controls in new jurisdictions or more restrictive ones in existing jurisdictions, failure to obtain or maintain timely or adequate pricing or formulary placement for our products or obtaining such pricing or placement at unfavorable pricing could also adversely impact revenue. In our vaccines business, we participate in a tender process in many. Pfizer Inc. 2017 Form 10-K 15. TABLE OF CONTENTS. countries for participation in national immunization programs. Failure to secure participation in national immunization programs or to obtain acceptable pricing in the tender process could adversely affect our business.. U.S. HEALTHCARE REFORM/HEALTHCARE LEGISLATION. The U.S. healthcare industry is highly regulated and subject to frequent and substantial changes. For example, the ACA was enacted by Congress in March 2010 and established a major expansion of healthcare coverage, financed in part by a number of new rebates, discounts, and taxes that had a significant effect on our expenses and profitability. See the discussion under the Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook - Our Operating Environment - Industry-Specific Challenges - Regulatory Environment/Pricing and Access - U.S. Healthcare Legislation section in our 2017 Financial Report and in Item 1. Business under the caption Government Regulation and Price Constraints - In the United States. We face uncertainties due to federal legislative and administrative efforts to repeal, substantially modify or invalidate some or all of the provisions of the ACA. The likelihood of such a repeal currently appears low given the recent failure of the Senate's multiple attempts to repeal various combinations of such ACA provisions. In October 2017, the President signed an Executive Order directing federal agencies to look for ways to authorize more health plans that could be less expensive because the plans would not have to meet all of the ACA's coverage requirements, and announced that his administration will withhold the cost-sharing subsidies paid to health insurance exchange plans serving low-income enrollees. These and similar actions by the administration are widely expected to lead to fewer Americans having comprehensive ACA-compliant health insurance, even in the absence of a legislative repeal. The revenues generated for Pfizer by the health insurance exchanges under the ACA are minor, so the impact of the recent administration actions is expected to be limited. There is no assurance that any future replacement, modification or repeal of the ACA will not adversely affect our business and financial results, particularly if the legislation reduces incentives for employer-sponsored insurance coverage, and we cannot predict how future federal or state legislative or administrative changes relating to healthcare reform will affect our business.. Other U.S. federal or state legislative or regulatory action and/or policy efforts could adversely affect our business, including, among others, changes in patent laws, the importation of prescription drugs from outside the U.S. at prices that are regulated by governments of various foreign countries (which is among the U.S. presidential administration's policy proposals), restrictions on U.S. direct-to-consumer advertising, limitations on interactions with healthcare professionals, or the use of comparative effectiveness methodologies that could be implemented in a manner that focuses primarily on cost differences and minimizes the therapeutic differences among pharmaceutical products and restricts access to innovative medicines.. U.S. ENTITLEMENT REFORM. In the U.S., government action to reduce federal spending on entitlement programs including Medicare and Medicaid may affect payment for our products or services provided using our products. The Congressional Budget Office routinely releases options for reducing federal spending, and the December 2016 release includes proposals to cap Medicaid grants to the states, and to require manufacturers to pay a minimum rebate on drugs covered under part D of Medicare for low-income beneficiaries. Significant Medicare reductions could also result if Congress proceeds with certain proposals to convert the Medicare fee-for-service program into a premium support program, or Congress chooses to implement the recommendations made annually by the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, which are primarily intended to extend the fiscal solvency of the Medicare program. These and any other significant spending reductions or cost controls affecting Medicare, Medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs that may be implemented could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. SUBSTANTIAL REGULATION. We are subject to extensive, complex, costly and evolving regulation by federal and state governmental authorities in the U.S., principally by the FDA and the DEA, and foreign regulatory authorities. Failure to comply with all applicable regulatory requirements may subject us to operating restrictions and criminal prosecution, monetary penalties and other disciplinary actions, including, sanctions, warning letters, product seizures, recalls, fines, injunctions, suspension, revocation of approvals, or exclusion from future participation in government healthcare programs.. DEVELOPMENT, REGULATORY APPROVAL AND MARKETING OF PRODUCTS. Innovation is critical to the success of our company, and drug discovery and development is time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. The outcome of the lengthy and complex process of identifying new compounds and developing new products is inherently uncertain and involves a high degree of risk and cost. The process from early discovery or design to development to regulatory approval can take many years. Drug candidates can and do fail at any stage of the process, including as the result of unfavorable pre-clinical and clinical trial results, including unfavorable new clinical data and additional analyses of existing clinical data. There can be no assurance regarding our ability to meet anticipated pre-clinical and clinical trial commencement and completion dates, regulatory submission and approval dates, and launch dates for product candidates, or as to whether or when we will receive regulatory approval for new products or for new indications or dosage forms for existing products, which will depend on the assessment by regulatory authorities of the benefit-risk profile suggested by the totality of the efficacy and safety information submitted. Decisions by regulatory authorities regarding labeling, ingredients and other matters could adversely affect the availability or commercial potential of our products. There is no assurance that we will be able to address. Pfizer Inc. 2017 Form 10-K 16. TABLE OF CONTENTS. the comments received by us from regulatory authorities such as the FDA and the EMA with respect to certain of our drug applications to the satisfaction of those authorities, that any of our pipeline products will receive regulatory approval and, if approved, be commercially successful or that recently approved products will be approved in other markets and/or be commercially successful. There is also a risk that we may not adequately address existing regulatory agency findings concerning the adequacy of our regulatory compliance processes and systems or implement sustainable processes and procedures to maintain regulatory compliance and to address future regulatory agency findings, should they occur. In addition, there are risks associated with preliminary, early stage or interim data, including the risk that final results of studies for which preliminary, early stage or interim data have been provided and/or additional clinical trials may be different from (including less favorable than) the preliminary, early stage or interim data results and may not support further clinical development of the applicable product candidate or indication. In addition, clinical trial data are subject to differing interpretations, and, even when we view data as sufficient to support the safety and/or effectiveness of a product candidate or a new indication for an in-line product, regulatory authorities may not share our views and may require additional data or may deny approval altogether.. There are many considerations that can affect the marketing of our products around the world. Regulatory delays, the inability to successfully complete or adequately design and implement clinical trials within the anticipated quality, time and cost guidelines or in compliance with applicable regulatory expectations, claims and concerns about safety and efficacy, new discoveries, patent disputes and claims about adverse side effects are a few of the factors that can adversely affect our business. Further, claims and concerns that may arise regarding the safety and efficacy of in-line products and product candidates can result in a negative impact on product sales, product recalls or withdrawals, and/or consumer fraud, product liability and other litigation and claims. Increasing regulatory scrutiny of drug safety and efficacy, with regulatory authorities increasingly focused on product safety and the risk/benefit profile of products as they relate to already-approved products, has resulted in a more challenging, expensive and lengthy regulatory approval process due to requests for, among other things, additional clinical trials prior to granting approval or increased post-approval requirements, such as risk evaluation and mitigation strategies.. In addition, failure to put in place adequate controls and/or resources for effective collection, reporting and management of adverse events from clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance, in compliance with current and evolving regulatory requirements could result in risks to patient safety, regulatory actions and risks to product sales.. The FDA, along with other regulatory agencies around the world, has been experiencing a backlog of generic drug applications, which may result in delayed approvals of new generic products. While the FDA is taking steps to address the backlog of pending applications, continued approval delays may be experienced by generic drug applicants over the next few years.. POST-APPROVAL DATA. As a condition to granting marketing approval of a product, the FDA may require a company to conduct additional clinical trials. The results generated in these Phase 4 trials could result in the loss of marketing approval, changes in product labeling, and/or new or increased concerns about the side effects or efficacy of a product. Regulatory agencies in countries outside the U.S. often have similar authority and may impose comparable requirements. Post-marketing studies, whether conducted by us or by others and whether mandated by regulatory agencies or voluntary, and other emerging data about marketed products, such as adverse event reports, may also adversely affect the availability or commercial potential of our products. Further, the discovery of significant problems with a product similar to one of our products that implicate (or are perceived to implicate) an entire class of products could have an adverse effect on the availability or commercial potential of the affected products. Accordingly, new data about our products, or products similar to our products, could negatively impact demand for our products due to real or perceived side effects or uncertainty regarding efficacy and, in some cases, could result in updated labeling, restrictions on use, product withdrawal or recall.. INTERACTIONS WITH HEALTHCARE PROFESSIONALS AND GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS. Risks and uncertainties apply if we provide something of value to a healthcare professional, other healthcare provider and/or government official. If the interaction is found to be improper, government enforcement actions and penalties could result. These risks may increase as non-U.S. jurisdictions adopt or increase enforcement efforts of new anti-bribery laws and regulations. Requirements or industry standards in the U.S. and certain jurisdictions abroad that require pharmaceutical manufacturers to track and disclose financial interactions with healthcare professionals and healthcare providers increase government and public scrutiny of such financial interactions.. CHANGES IN LAWS AND ACCOUNTING STANDARDS. Our future results could be adversely affected by changes in interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or changes in laws and regulations, including, among others, changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements (including tax rate changes, new tax laws, changes to existing tax laws and revised tax law and regulatory clarifications and/or interpretations, including changes affecting the taxation by the U.S. of income earned outside the U.S. that may result from pending and possible future proposals, including further clarifications and/or interpretations of the recently passed Tax Cuts and Jobs Act), competition laws, privacy laws and environmental laws in the U.S. and other countries. For additional information, see the Provision/(Benefit) for Taxes on Income - Changes in Tax Laws and New Accounting Standards sections, and Notes to Consolidated Financial. Pfizer Inc. 2017 Form 10-K 17. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Statements - Note 1B. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies: Adoption of New Accounting Standards in 2017 in our 2017 Financial Report.. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. We and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in various legal proceedings, including patent, product liability and other product-related litigation, including personal injury, consumer, off-label promotion, securities, antitrust and breach of contract claims, commercial, environmental, government investigations, employment, tax litigation and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur. Although we believe we have substantial defenses in these matters, we could in the future incur judgments, enter into settlements of claims or revise our expectations regarding the outcomes of certain matters, and such developments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the amounts are accrued and/or our cash flows in the period in which the amounts are paid.. Claims against our patents include challenges to the coverage and/or validity of our patents on various products or processes. Although we believe we have substantial defenses to these challenges with respect to all of our material patents, there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these matters, and a loss in any of these cases could result in a loss of patent protection for the product at issue, which could lead to a significant loss of sales of that product and could materially affect future results of operations.. Like other pharmaceutical companies, we are subject to investigations and extensive regulation by government agencies in the U.S., other developed markets and multiple emerging markets in which we operate. As a result, we have interactions with government agencies on an ongoing basis. Criminal charges, substantial fines and/or civil penalties, limitations on our ability to conduct business in applicable jurisdictions, as well as reputational harm and increased public interest in the matter could result from government investigations.. Our activities relating to the sale and marketing and the pricing of our products are subject to extensive regulation under the FFDCA, the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, the FCPA and other federal and state statutes, including those discussed elsewhere in this 2017 Form 10-K, as well as anti-kickback and false claims laws, and similar laws in international jurisdictions. Like many companies in our industry, we have from time to time received inquiries and subpoenas and other types of information demands from government authorities, and been subject to claims and other actions related to our business activities brought by governmental authorities, as well as by consumers and private payers. In some instances, we have incurred significant expense, civil payments, fines and other adverse consequences as a result of these claims, actions and inquiries. For example, these claims, actions and inquiries may relate to alleged failures to accurately interpret or identify or prevent non-compliance with the laws and regulations associated with the dissemination of product information (approved and unapproved), potentially resulting in government enforcement and damage to our reputation. This risk may be heightened by digital marketing, including social media, mobile applications and blogger outreach.. ENVIRONMENTAL CLAIMS AND PROCEEDINGS. We and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to numerous contingencies arising in the ordinary course of business relating to environmental claims and proceedings. Amounts recorded for contingencies can result from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions. While we have accrued for worldwide environmental liabilities, there is no guarantee that additional costs will not be incurred beyond the amounts accrued. If we fail to properly manage the safety of our facilities and the environmental risks associated therewith or if we are required to increase our accruals for contingencies for environmental claims and proceedings in the future, it could potentially have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. RISKS RELATED TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY:. PATENT PROTECTION. Our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. We rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of intellectual property, including patent, trademark, trade dress, copyright, trade secret and domain name protection laws, as well as confidentiality and license agreements, to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. If we fail to obtain and maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not be able to prevent third parties from launching generic versions of our branded products, using our proprietary technologies or from marketing products that are very similar or identical to ours. Our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents, or be granted on a timely basis. Similarly, any term extensions that we seek may not be granted on a timely basis, if at all. In addition, our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products or provide us with any competitive advantage, including exclusivity in a particular product area. The scope of our patent claims also may vary between countries, as individual countries have distinct patent laws. We may be subject to challenges by third parties regarding our intellectual property, including, among others, claims regarding validity, enforceability, scope and effective term.. Pfizer Inc. 2017 Form 10-K 18. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Our ability to enforce our patents also depends on the laws of individual countries and each country's practice with respect to enforcement of intellectual property rights, and the extent to which certain sovereigns may seek to engage in a policy of routine compulsory licensing of pharmaceutical intellectual property as a result of local political pressure or in the case of national emergencies. In countries that provide some form of regulatory exclusivity, mechanisms exist permitting some form of challenge to our patents by competitors or generic drug marketers prior to or immediately following the expiration of such regulatory exclusivity, and generic companies are increasingly employing aggressive strategies, such as \"at risk\" launches to challenge our patent rights. Most of the suits involve claims by generic drug manufacturers that patents covering our products, processes or dosage forms are invalid and/or do not cover the product of the generic drug manufacturer. Independent actions have been filed alleging that our assertions of, or attempts to enforce, patent rights with respect to certain products constitute unfair competition and/or violations of antitrust laws. Such claims may also be brought as counterclaims to actions we bring to enforce our patents. We are also party to other patent damages suits in various jurisdictions pursuant to which generic drug manufacturers, payers, governments or other parties are seeking damages from us for alleged delay of generic entry. We also are often involved in other proceedings, such as inter partes review, post-grant review, re-examination or opposition proceedings, before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, the European Patent Office, or other foreign counterparts relating to our intellectual property or the intellectual property rights of others. Also, if one of our patents is found to be invalid by such proceedings, generic or competitive products could be introduced into the market resulting in the erosion of sales of our existing products. For example, several of the patents in our pneumococcal vaccine portfolio have been challenged in inter partes review and post-grant review proceedings in the U.S. The invalidation of these patents could potentially allow a competitor pneumococcal vaccine into the marketplace. Further, if we are unable to maintain our existing license agreements or other agreements pursuant to which third parties grant us rights to intellectual property, including because such agreements expire or are terminated, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. Likewise, in the U.S. and other countries, we currently hold issued trademark registrations and have trademark applications pending, any of which may be the subject of a governmental or third-party objection, which could prevent the maintenance or issuance of the trademark. As our products mature, our reliance on our trademarks and trade dress to differentiate us from our competitors increases and as a result, if we are unable to prevent third parties from adopting, registering or using trademarks and trade dress that infringe, dilute or otherwise violate our trademark rights, our business could be materially adversely affected. We actively seek to protect our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, by requiring our employees, consultants, other advisors and other third parties to execute proprietary information and confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of their employment, engagement or other relationship. Despite these efforts and precautions, we may be unable to prevent a third party from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our trade secrets or our other intellectual property without authorization, and legal remedies in some countries may not adequately compensate us for the damages caused by such unauthorized use. Further, others may independently and lawfully develop substantially similar or identical products that circumvent our intellectual property by means of alternative designs or processes or otherwise.. THIRD PARTY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY CLAIMS. A properly functioning intellectual property regime is essential to our business model. We are committed to respecting the valid intellectual property rights of other companies, but the patent granting process is imperfect. Accordingly, the pursuit of valid business opportunities may require us to challenge intellectual property rights held by other companies that we believe were improperly granted. Such challenges may include negotiation and litigation, which may not be successful.. Part of our EH business depends upon successfully identifying generic pharmaceutical product and biosimilar opportunities and launching products to take advantage of those opportunities, which may involve litigation, associated costs and time delays, and may ultimately not be successful. These opportunities may arise in situations where patent protection of equivalent branded products has expired, where patents have been declared invalid, or where products do not infringe the patents of others. To achieve a \"first-to-market\" or early market position for generic pharmaceutical products and biosimilars, we may take action, such as litigation, asserting that our products do not infringe patents of existing products or that those patents are invalid or unenforceable.. Third parties may claim that our products infringe one or more patents owned or controlled by the third party. Claims of intellectual property infringement can be costly and time-consuming to resolve, may delay or prevent product launches, and may result in significant damages. We are involved in patent-related disputes with third parties over our attempts to market generic pharmaceutical products and biosimilars. Once we have final regulatory approval of the related generic pharmaceuticals products or biosimilars, we may decide to commercially market these products even though associated legal proceedings (including any appeals) have not been resolved (i.e., \"at-risk\" launch). If one of our marketed products is found to infringe valid patent rights of a third party, such third party may be awarded significant damages, or we may be prevented from further sales of that product. Such damages may be enhanced as much as three-fold in the event that we or one of our subsidiaries, like Hospira, is found to have willfully infringed valid patent rights of a third party. Any of these adverse consequences could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition.. Pfizer Inc. 2017 Form 10-K 19. TABLE OF CONTENTS. RISK RELATED TO TECHNOLOGY:. INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND SECURITY. Significant disruptions of information technology systems or breaches of information security could adversely affect our businesses. We rely to a large extent upon sophisticated information technology systems to operate our businesses. In the ordinary course of business, we collect, store and transmit large amounts of confidential information (including, but not limited to, personal information and intellectual property), and we deploy and operate an array of technical and procedural controls to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of such confidential information. We also have outsourced significant elements of our operations to third parties, including significant elements of our information technology infrastructure and, as a result, we are managing many independent vendor relationships with third parties who may or could have access to our confidential information. The size and complexity of our information technology and information security systems, and those of our third-party vendors with whom we contract (and the large amounts of confidential information that is present on them), make such systems potentially vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees or vendors, or from attacks by malicious third parties. Such attacks are of ever-increasing levels of sophistication and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives (including, but not limited to, industrial espionage) and expertise, including organized criminal groups, \"hacktivists,\" nation states and others. As a global pharmaceutical company, our systems are subject to frequent attacks. Due to the nature of some of these attacks, there is a risk that they may remain undetected for a period of time. While we have invested in the protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent service interruptions or security breaches. Any such interruption or breach of our systems could adversely affect our business operations and/or result in the loss of critical or sensitive confidential information or intellectual property, and could result in financial, legal, business and reputational harm to us. We maintain cyber liability insurance; however this insurance may not be sufficient to cover the financial, legal, business or reputational losses that may result from an interruption or breach of our systems.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR STRATEGIC TRANSACTIONS:. STRATEGIC ACQUISITIONS. The success of our acquisitions of Hospira, Anacor, Medivation and AstraZeneca's small molecule anti-infectives business will depend, in large part, on our ability to realize anticipated benefits from combining these businesses with Pfizer. We, for example, may fail to achieve cost savings anticipated with the acquisition of Hospira, or such cost savings within the expected time frame. Similarly, the accretive impact anticipated from the acquisitions of Hospira, Anacor and Medivation may not be realized or may be delayed. Integration of these businesses may result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing business, including third-party relationships, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. We also may fail to generate the revenue growth for the acquired business that we expected at the time of entering into the transaction. Expected revenue from acquired products and product candidates also may be constrained by developments outside of our control. Unsuccessful clinical trials, regulatory hurdles and commercialization challenges may adversely impact revenue and income contribution from products and product candidates, including those acquired in these acquisitions. Hospira, for example, has experienced manufacturing disruptions and substantial regulatory scrutiny due to quality issues, including receiving a warning letter from the FDA in February 2017 communicating the FDA's view that certain violations of cGMP regulations exist at Hospira's manufacturing facility in McPherson, Kansas. Manufacturing problems, as well as any corrective actions and their operational implementation, could adversely impact the revenue we generate from products acquired from Hospira and result in substantial unanticipated costs. For additional information, see the Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook -  - Our Business - Product Manufacturing section in our 2017 Financial Report. Also, the success of our acquisition of Medivation depends on our ability to grow revenues for Xtandi and expand Xtandi into the non-metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer setting.. STRATEGIC ALTERNATIVES FOR PFIZER CONSUMER HEALTHCARE. In October 2017, we announced plans to review a range of strategic alternatives for our Consumer Healthcare business, including a full or partial separation of the Consumer Healthcare business from Pfizer through a spin-off, sale or other transaction, as well as the possibility that we may ultimately determine to retain the business. We expect that a decision regarding strategic alternatives for the Consumer Healthcare business would be made in 2018.. We will incur expenses in connection with the review of strategic alternatives and are likely to incur significant expenses if we determine to move forward with any strategic alternatives. Our future results may be affected by the impact of our review and, if applicable, consummation of strategic alternatives for our Consumer Healthcare business, which are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, including, among other things, the ability to realize the anticipated benefits of any strategic alternatives we may pursue, the potential for disruption to our business and diversion of management's attention from other aspects of our business, the possibility that such strategic alternatives will not be completed on terms that are advantageous to Pfizer and the possibility that we may be unable to realize a higher value for our Consumer Healthcare through strategic alternatives.. Pfizer Inc. 2017 Form 10-K 20. TABLE OF CONTENTS. OTHER RISKS:. THE GLOBAL ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT. Like all businesses, we are exposed to both global and industry-specific economic conditions. Governments, corporations and insurance companies, which provide insurance benefits to patients, have implemented increases in cost-sharing and restrictions on access to medicines, potentially causing patients to switch to generic or biosimilar products, delay treatments, skip doses or use less effective treatments. Government financing pressures can lead to negative pricing pressure in various markets where governments take an active role in setting prices, access criteria (e.g., through public or private health technology assessments), or other means of cost control. Examples include Europe, Japan, China, Canada, South Korea and a number of other international markets. The U.S. continues to maintain competitive insurance markets, but has also seen significant increases in patient cost-sharing and growing government influence as government programs continue to grow as a source of coverage.. The global economic environment has not had, nor do we anticipate that it will have, a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources. Due to our significant operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. We monitor our liquidity position continuously in the face of evolving economic conditions, but there can be no guarantee that changes in global financial markets and global economic conditions will not affect our liquidity or capital resources or impact our ability to obtain financing in the future.. We continue to monitor credit, capital restrictions and economic situations in volatile regions and markets, especially where the ability to obtain U.S. dollars for local currency is unpredictable and challenging. We cannot predict the likelihood of future changes in these economic conditions, or what impact they may have on our results of operations, financial condition or business.. In addition, given that a significant portion of our business is conducted in the EU, including the U.K., the formal change in the relationship between the U.K. and the EU caused by Brexit may pose certain implications to our research, commercial and general business operations in the U.K. and the EU, including the approval and supply of our products. Details on how Brexit will be executed and the impact on the remaining EU countries will dictate how and whether the broader EU will be impacted and what the resulting impact on our business may be. For additional information, see the Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources - Global Economic Conditions - U.K. section in our 2017 Financial Report.. We also continue to monitor the global trade environment and potential trade conflicts. If trade restrictions reduce global economic activity, or if other factors lead to a general economic downturn, potential impacts could include declining sales; increased costs; volatility in foreign exchange rates; a decline in the value of our financial assets and pension plan investments; required increases of our pension funding obligations; increased government cost control efforts; delays or failures in the performance of customers, suppliers, and other third parties on whom we may depend for the performance of our business; and the risk that our allowance for doubtful accounts may not be adequate.. FOREIGN EXCHANGE AND INTEREST RATE RISK. Significant portions of our revenues, costs and expenses, as well as our substantial international net assets, are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. 50% of our total 2017 revenues were derived from international operations, including 21% from Europe and 20% from Japan and the rest of Asia. As we operate in multiple foreign currencies, including the euro, the Japanese yen, the Chinese renminbi, the U.K. pound, the Canadian dollar and approximately 100 other currencies, changes in those currencies relative to the U.S. dollar will impact our revenues and expenses. If the U.S. dollar were to weaken against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would increase, having a positive impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would increase, having a negative impact on earnings. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar were to strengthen against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would decrease, having a negative impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would decrease, having a positive impact on earnings. Therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates can impact our results and our financial guidance.. The impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates or significant exchange fluctuations can impact our results and financial guidance. For additional information about our exposure to foreign currency risk, see the Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook -  - Our Financial Guidance for 2018 and Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources sections in our 2017 Financial Report.. In addition, our interest-bearing investments and borrowings, and our pension benefit obligations, net, and our postretirement benefit obligations, net, are subject to risk from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. These risks and the measures we have taken to help contain them are discussed in the Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results - Financial Risk Management section in our 2017 Financial Report. For additional details, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - Note 7F. Financial Instruments: Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities and  - Note 11. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans in our 2017 Financial Report and the. Pfizer Inc. 2017 Form 10-K 21. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Significant Accounting Policies and Application of Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions -  - Benefit Plans section in our 2017 Financial Report. Those sections of our 2017 Financial Report are incorporated by reference.. Notwithstanding our efforts to foresee and mitigate the effects of changes in external fiscal circumstances, we cannot predict with certainty changes in currency and interest rates, inflation or other related factors affecting our businesses.. COST AND EXPENSE CONTROL/UNUSUAL EVENTS/FAILURE TO REALIZE THE ANTICIPATED BENEFITS OF STRATEGIC INITIATIVES AND ACQUISITIONS. Growth in costs and expenses, changes in product, segment and geographic mix and the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, internal reorganizations, product withdrawals, recalls and other unusual events that could result from evolving business strategies, evaluation of asset realization and organizational restructuring could adversely affect future results. Such risks and uncertainties include, in particular, our ability to realize the projected benefits of (i) our cost-reduction and productivity initiatives; (ii) our internal separation of our commercial operations into our current operating structure; (iii) any other corporate strategic initiatives, such as our evaluation of strategic alternatives for our Consumer Healthcare business; and (iv) any acquisitions, divestitures or other initiatives, such as our acquisitions of Hospira, Anacor, Medivation and AstraZeneca's small molecule anti-infectives business.. INTANGIBLE ASSETS, GOODWILL AND EQUITY-METHOD INVESTMENTS. Our consolidated balance sheet contains significant amounts of intangible assets, including goodwill. For IPR&D assets, the risk of failure is significant, and there can be no certainty that these assets ultimately will yield successful products. The nature of the biopharmaceutical business is high-risk and requires that we invest in a large number of projects in an effort to achieve a successful portfolio of approved products. Our ability to realize value on these significant investments is often contingent upon, among other things, regulatory approvals and market acceptance. As such, we expect that many of these IPR&D assets will become impaired and be written off at some time in the future. For goodwill, all reporting units can confront events and circumstances that can lead to a goodwill impairment charge (such as, among other things, unanticipated competition, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, a significant adverse change in legal matters or in the business climate and/or a failure to replace the contributions of products that lose exclusivity). Any such charge may be significant. Our other intangible assets, including developed technology rights and brands, face similar risks for impairment and charges related to such assets may be significant as well. For additional details, see the Significant Accounting Policies and Application of Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions section in our 2017 Financial Report.. We also regularly review our equity-method investments for impairment. An impairment charge may result from the occurrence of unexpected adverse events or management decisions that impact our estimates of expected cash flows to be generated from these investments. We may recognize impairment charges as a result of a weak economic environment, events related to particular customers or asset types, challenging market conditions or decisions by management.. INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING. The accuracy of our financial reporting depends on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements and may not prevent or detect misstatements. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, or lapses in disclosure controls and procedures, could undermine the ability to provide accurate disclosure (including with respect to financial information) on a timely basis, which could cause investors to lose confidence in our disclosures (including with respect to financial information), require significant resources to remediate the lapse or deficiency, and expose us to legal or regulatory proceedings.. TERRORIST ACTIVITY. Our future results could be adversely affected by changes in business, political and economic conditions, including the cost and availability of insurance, due to the threat of terrorist activity in the U.S. and other parts of the world and related U.S. military action overseas.. Pfizer Inc. 2017 Form 10-K 22. TABLE OF CONTENTS"
