[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected by any or all of the following factors, in which event the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Business. We operate with significant levels of indebtedness and are required to comply with certain financial and non-financial covenants; and we have guaranteed certain indebtedness and obligations of our subsidiaries.. As of December 31, 2017, our total credit facilities outstanding, including debt, capital lease obligations and our vendor accounts payable related to financing of Ricoh product inventory for a client, was approximately $54.4 million. We cannot provide assurance that our credit facilities will be renewed by the lending parties. Additionally, these credit facilities include both financial and non-financial covenants, many of which also include cross-default provisions applicable to other agreements. Certain of these covenants also restrict our ability to transfer funds among our various subsidiaries, which may adversely affect the ability of our subsidiaries to operate their businesses or comply with their respective loan covenants. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to maintain compliance with these covenants. A non-renewal, default under or acceleration of any of our credit facilities may have a material adverse impact upon our business and financial condition. We have guaranteed most of the indebtedness of our subsidiary Supplies Distributors. Furthermore, we are obligated to repay any over-advance made to Supplies Distributors by its lenders to the extent Supplies Distributors is unable to do so.. Our business and future growth depend on our continued access to bank and commercial financing.. Our business and future growth currently depend on our ability to access bank, vendor and commercial lines of credit. We currently depend on line of credit facilities provided by various banks and commercial lenders that provided for an aggregate of up to approximately $77.5 million in available financing as of December 31, 2017. These lines of credit currently mature at dates through August 2020 and are secured by substantially all our assets. Our ability to renew our lines of credit depends upon various factors, including the availability of bank loans and commercial credit in general, as well as our financial condition and prospects. Therefore, we cannot guarantee that these credit facilities will continue to be available beyond their current maturities on reasonable terms or at all. Our inability to renew or replace our credit facilities or find alternative financing would have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.. We are uncertain about the availability of additional capital.. We may require additional capital to take advantage of opportunities, including strategic alliances and acquisitions, and to fund capital expenditures, or to respond to changing business conditions and unanticipated competitive pressures. We may also require additional funds to finance operating losses. Should these circumstances arise, our existing cash balance and credit facilities may be. 12. insufficient and we may need to raise additional funds either by borrowing money or issuing additional equity or both. We cannot assure you that such resources will be adequate or available for all of our future financing needs. Our inability to finance our growth, either internally or externally, may limit our growth potential and our ability to execute our business strategy. If we are successful in completing an additional equity financing, this could result in further dilution to our shareholders' ownership or reduce the market value of our common stock.. We anticipate incurring significant expenses in the foreseeable future, which may reduce our ability to achieve or maintain profitability.. To reach our business growth objectives, we currently expect to increase our operating, sales, and marketing expenses, as well as capital expenditures. To offset these expenses, we will need to generate additional profitable business. If our revenue declines or grows slower than either we anticipate or our clients' projections indicate, or if our operating, sales and marketing expenses exceed our expectations or cannot be reduced to an appropriate level, we may not generate sufficient revenue to be profitable or be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Additionally, if our revenue grows slower than either we anticipate or our clients' projections indicate, we may incur unnecessary or redundant costs and our operating results could be adversely affected.. Our service fee revenue and gross margin are dependent upon our clients' business and transaction volumes and our costs. A reduction in our clients' ecommerce business or our inability to grow our business or increase service fee revenue from new or existing clients could negatively impact our operating results.. Our service fee revenue is primarily transaction and project based and fluctuates with the volume of transactions or level of sales of the products by our clients for whom we provide omni-channel services and the size and scope of projects for clients for whom we perform technology and agency services. If we are unable to retain existing clients or attract new clients, or if we dedicate significant resources to clients whose business does not generate revenues at projected levels or sufficient revenues, or whose products do not generate substantial customer sales, our business may be materially adversely affected in a number of ways.. For example, we seek to maintain sufficient capacity in our fulfillment, call center and professional services operations and computer technology systems to support our projected existing and new client business activity, including seasonal volumes and we currently plan on increasing capacity to support future projected growth. The fixed cost structure of many of these investments limits our flexibility to reduce our costs when excess capacity occurs. A reduction in our clients' business or our inability to grow our business or increase service fee revenue from new or existing clients could result in an underutilization in our invested assets. While certain of our building leases permit early termination in advance of their regular scheduled maturity date, these early terminations would require incremental termination related payments which reduce the potential benefit of this flexibility.. Similarly, salaries and payroll-related expenses are a significant component of our costs. Balancing our workforce levels against the demands for our services is difficult. We generally cannot reduce our labor costs as quickly as negative changes in revenue may occur. We may retain underutilized employees to maintain scalability to meet client demand. We must maintain our utilization at an appropriate rate to achieve our desired level of profitability. If we are unable to achieve and maintain our target utilization rates, our profitability could be adversely impacted. Further, if labor costs increase, this could put upward pressure on our costs and adversely affect our profitability if we are unable to recover these increased costs by increasing the prices for our services.. Moreover, our ability to estimate service fee revenue for future periods is substantially dependent upon our clients' and our own projections, the accuracy of which has been, and will continue to be, unpredictable. Therefore, our planning for client activity and targeted goals for service fee revenue and gross margin may be materially adversely affected by incomplete, delayed or inaccurate projections. In addition, most of our service agreements with our clients are non-exclusive and we cannot assure you any of our clients will continue to use our services for any period of time. The loss of a significant amount of service fee revenue due to client terminations or material reductions in the services provided to one or more clients could have a material adverse effect on our ability to cover our costs and thus on our profitability.. We may incur financial penalties if we fail to meet contractual service levels under client service agreements.. Many of our client service agreements contain minimum service level requirements and impose financial penalties if we fail to meet such requirements. The imposition of a substantial amount of such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. In the event we are unable to meet the service levels expected by the client, our relationship with the client will suffer and may result in financial penalties and/or the termination of the client contract.. We are dependent on our key personnel, and if we are unable to keep our supply of skills and resources in balance with client demand and attract and retain skilled professionals, our business, the utilization rate of our professionals and our results of operations may be materially adversely affected.. Our performance is highly dependent on the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel, the loss of any of whom could materially adversely affect our business. In addition, we need to attract and retain other highly-skilled, technical and managerial personnel for whom there is intense competition. For example, if we are unable to hire or continually train our employees. 13. to keep pace with the rapid and continuing changes in technology and the markets we serve or changes in the types of services our clients are demanding, we may not be able to develop and deliver new services and solutions to fulfill client demand. As we expand our services and solutions, we must also hire and retain an increasing number of professionals with different skills and expectations than those of the professionals we have historically hired and retained. We cannot assure you we will be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the continuing growth of our business. Our inability to attract and retain qualified technical and managerial personnel could materially adversely affect our ability to maintain and grow our business significantly.. Our business may suffer if we are unable to hire and retain sufficient temporary workers or if labor costs increase.. We regularly hire a large number of part-time and seasonal workers, particularly during the fourth quarter holiday season and to meet temporary increases in client activity volume related to \"flash sales\" and other short-term marketing programs. Any difficulty we may encounter in hiring such workers could result in significant increases in labor costs, or inability to support our clients' business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also hire more full-time and part-time employees to mitigate the risk of the unavailability of temporary workers, and our failure to maintain an appropriate mix of labor personnel may result in higher costs. Competition for labor could also substantially increase our labor costs. Although we seek to preserve the contractual ability to pass through increases in labor costs to our clients, not all of our current contracts provide us with this protection, and we may enter into contracts in the future, which limit or prohibit our ability to pass through increases in labor costs to our clients.. Our expenses could be adversely impacted by increases in healthcare costs.. We provide healthcare benefits to our employees. Increased costs of providing such benefits, including potential impact from modifications to healthcare legislation and related regulations, could materially impact our future healthcare costs, which would adversely affect our results and cash flow.. Our business is susceptible to risks associated with international operations.. Outside of the United States, we currently maintain distribution facilities, call centers, technology centers, administrative offices and/or have sales personnel in Belgium, Canada, India, Bulgaria and U.K., and we currently intend to expand our international operations. We cannot assure you we will be successful in expanding in these or any additional international markets. In addition, we may face competition from companies that may have more experience with operations in these countries or with international operations generally. We may also face difficulties integrating new facilities in different countries into our existing operations, as well as integrating employees that we hire in different countries into our existing corporate culture. In addition to the uncertainty regarding our ability to generate revenue or profits from foreign operations and expand our international presence, there are risks inherent in doing business internationally that we have not generally faced in our U.S. operations, including:. •  lack of familiarity with, and resulting risk of breach of, and/or unanticipated additional cost of compliance with, foreign laws and regulations governing privacy, data security, data transfer, employment, taxes, tariffs, trade restrictions, transfer pricing and other matters;. •  changes in regulatory environments;. •  difficulties and expenses associated with localizing our services and operations to local markets, including language and cultural differences;. •  difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, including complex and costly hiring, disciplinary, and termination requirements;. •  the complexities of foreign value-added taxes and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings;. •  reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries;. •  political, social and economic instability abroad, terrorist attacks and security concerns;. •  fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and. •  increased accounting and reporting burdens and complexities.. Additionally, operating in international market requires significant management attention and financial resources. We cannot be certain that the investments and additional resources required to establish and maintain operations in other countries will hold their value or produce desired levels of revenues or profitability. Any negative impact from our international business efforts could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition as a whole.. Our financial results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in the foreign currency exchange markets.. The revenues and expenses of our international operations generally are denominated in local currencies. Accordingly, we are subject to exchange rate fluctuations between such local currencies and the U.S. dollar. These exchange rate fluctuations subject us to currency translation risk with respect to the reported results of our international operations. Significant strengthening or weakening of. 14. the U.S. dollar against currencies like the Canadian Dollar, British Pound and the Euro may materially impact our revenue and profits. As we continue to expand our presence in India, we will have increased exposure to fluctuations between the Indian Rupee and the U.S. dollar. In addition, we have transactions with clients, as well as inter-company transactions between our subsidiaries, that cross currencies and expose us to foreign currency gains and losses. These types of events are difficult to predict and may recur. There can be no assurance that we will be able to reduce the currency risks associated with our international operations. We seek to manage our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates through our normal operating and financing activities and, if deemed appropriate, we may use derivative financial instruments. There is no assurance that we will be successful in managing or controlling foreign currency risks.. We may engage in future strategic alliances or acquisitions that could dilute our existing shareholders' ownership, cause us to incur significant expenses or harm our business. Acquisitions can result in an increase in our operating costs, divert management's attention away from other operational matters and expose us to other risks associated with acquisitions.. We have pursued an acquisition strategy designed to enhance or add to our offerings of services and solutions, or to enable us to expand in certain geographic and other markets, and we may continue to seek appropriate acquisition candidates. We may not succeed in completing targeted transactions, or achieve desired results of operations. Furthermore, we face risks in successfully integrating any businesses we acquire. Ongoing business may be disrupted and our management's attention may be diverted by acquisitions, transition or integration activities. In addition, we might need to dedicate additional management and other resources, and our organizational structure could make it difficult for us to efficiently integrate acquired businesses into our ongoing operations and assimilate and retain employees of those businesses into our culture and operations.. We might fail to realize the expected benefits or strategic objectives of any acquisition we make. We might not achieve our expected return on investment, or we may lose money. We may be adversely impacted by liabilities that we assume from a company we acquire, including from that company's known and unknown obligations, intellectual property or other assets, terminated employees, current or former clients, or other third parties, and we may fail to identify or adequately assess the magnitude of certain liabilities, shortcomings or other circumstances prior to acquisition, which could result in unexpected legal or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting treatment, unexpected increases in taxes, or other adverse effects on our business. If we are inefficient or unsuccessful at integrating any acquired businesses into our operations, we may not be able to achieve our planned rates of growth or improve our market share, profitability, or competitive position in specific markets or services.. In addition, acquisitions involve further risks, such as:. •  lack of synergy, or inability to realize expected synergies, resulting from the acquisition;. •  the risk that the issuance of our common stock, if any, in an acquisition or merger, or the consolidation of an acquired company's financial results could be dilutive to our shareholders;. •  acquired assets becoming impaired as a result of technological advancements or worse-than-expected performance of the acquired company;. •  the potential impact of the announcement or consummation of a proposed transaction on the market value of our common stock or relationships with third parties;. •  reductions in cash balances and/or increases in debt obligations to finance activities associated with a transaction, including future payments under earn-outs and other contingent payments, which reduce the availability of cash flow for general corporate or other purposes or impact our financial results; and. •  inadequacy or ineffectiveness of an acquired company's internal financial controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and/or other policies or practices; and unknown, underestimated and/or undisclosed commitments or liabilities.. Our financial results may be negatively impacted by impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill.. Goodwill represented approximately 25% of our total assets as of December 31, 2017. The carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of an acquired business in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. We are required to test goodwill for impairment annually and when factors or indicators become apparent that could reduce the fair value of any of our reporting units below its book value. Such factors requiring an interim test for impairment include financial performance indicators, such as negative or declining cash flows or a decline in actual or planned revenue or earnings, and a sustained decrease in share price. A significant downward revision in the fair value of one or more of our business units that causes the carrying value to exceed the fair value could cause goodwill to be considered impaired, and could result in a non-cash impairment charge in our consolidated statement of operations.. Our business and profitability could be adversely affected if the operations of one or more of our facilities were interrupted or shut down as the result of a natural disaster.. We operate a majority of our distribution facilities in the Memphis, Tennessee area and our headquarters and call center operations are centered in the Dallas, Texas area. We also maintain facilities in Canada, Europe and India. A natural disaster or other. 15. serious disruption to our facilities due to fire, tornado, flood, severe weather or any other cause could substantially disrupt our operations and could impair our ability to adequately service our clients and customers. In addition, we could incur significantly higher costs during the time it takes for us to reopen or replace any one or more of our facilities, which may or may not be reimbursed by insurance. As a result, disruption at one or more of our facilities could adversely affect our business and profitability.. A breach of our eCommerce security measures could reduce demand for our services. Credit card fraud and other fraud could adversely affect our business.. A requirement of the continued growth of eCommerce is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or interrupt our operations. Any compromise or elimination of our security could reduce demand for our services.. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to address any problem they may cause. Because our activities involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information, such as credit card numbers, security breaches could damage our reputation, cause us to lose clients, impact our ability to attract new clients and we could be exposed to litigation and possible liability. Our security measures may not prevent security breaches, and failure to prevent security breaches may disrupt our operations. The failure to adequately control fraudulent transactions on either our behalf or our client's behalf could increase our expenses and expose us to reputational damage which would adversely affect our business.. We may be liable for misappropriation of our customers' and our clients' customers' personal information.. Data security laws are becoming more stringent in the United States and abroad. Third parties are engaging in increased cyber-attacks against companies doing business on the internet and individuals are increasingly subjected to identity and credit card theft on the internet. If third parties or unauthorized employees are able to penetrate our network security or otherwise misappropriate our customers' or our clients' customers' personal information or credit card information, or if we give third parties or our employees' improper access to customers' personal information or credit card information, we could be subject to liability. This liability could include claims for unauthorized purchases with credit card information, impersonation or other similar fraud claims, as well as claims for other misuses of personal information, including unauthorized marketing purposes. Liability for misappropriation of this information could decrease our profitability and adversely affect our business. In such circumstances, we also could be liable for failing to provide timely notice of a data security breach affecting certain types of personal information. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission and state agencies have brought numerous enforcement actions against internet companies for alleged deficiencies in those companies' privacy and data security practices, and they may continue to bring such actions. We could incur additional expenses if new regulations regarding the collection, use or storage of personal information are introduced or if government agencies investigate our privacy or security practices.. We rely on encryption and authentication technology to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of sensitive customer information such as customer credit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments may result in a compromise or breach of the measures that we use to protect customer transaction data. If any such compromise of security were to occur, it could subject us to liability, damage our reputation and diminish the value of our brand-name. A party who is able to circumvent the security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in operations. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against such security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. Our security measures are designed to prevent security breaches, but our failure to prevent such security breaches could subject us to liability, damage our reputation and diminish the value of our brand-name.. Our insurance policies may not fully cover all losses we may incur.. Although we attempt to limit our liability for damages arising from negligent acts, errors or omissions through contractual provisions, the limitations of liability included in our contracts may not fully protect us from liability or damages and may not be enforceable in all instances. In addition, not all of our contracts may limit our exposure for certain liabilities, such as data security claims or claims of third parties for which we may be required to indemnify our clients. Although we have general liability and errors and omissions insurance coverage, this coverage may not continue to be available on terms reasonable to us or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims, and our insurers may disclaim coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that are excluded from our insurance coverage or that exceed our available insurance coverage, or changes in our insurance policies (including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements), could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Changes in regulations, regulatory scrutiny, or user concerns regarding privacy and protection of user data could adversely affect our business.. We are subject to U.S. and foreign laws relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of personally identifiable information. The interpretation and application of user data protection laws are in a state of flux, and may vary from country to country. In many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between or among ourselves, our subsidiaries and other parties with which we have commercial relations. Further, these laws continue to develop in ways. 16. we cannot predict and which may adversely impact our business. For example, new laws or regulations, in particular, financial or privacy laws or regulations, may be enacted in jurisdictions in which we do business that require data (including customer information, transaction data or other information) to be stored locally on servers in that jurisdiction and/or prohibit such data from being transmitted outside of that jurisdiction, which would increase our operational costs or capital expenditures and potentially impact the performance or availability of our services and/or our ability to use or process customer data.. On October 6, 2015, the Court of Justice of the European Union (\"CJEU\") invalidated the long - standing U.S.-EU Safe Harbor Framework, which previously established means for legitimizing the transfer of personal data by U.S. companies from the European Economic Area (\"the EEA\") to the U.S. The EU Parliament approved General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR (Regulation (EU) 2016/679) on April 14, 2016. This regulation replaces the Data Protection Directive 95/46/EC and is designed to harmonize data privacy across EU members and protect the privacy of EU citizens. In light of the CJEU decision, we are reviewing our business practices and may find it necessary or desirable to make changes to our handling of personal data to comply with new requirements under applicable European law. We may be unsuccessful in establishing legitimate means for our transfer and receipt of personal data from the EEA or otherwise responding to the CJEU decision or new European requirements, and we may experience reluctance or refusal by current or prospective European customers to use our services. We may be required to assume additional liabilities or incur additional costs, and our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Because of the uncertainty arising from the CJEU decision, we may face a risk of enforcement actions by data protection authorities in the EEA. Any such enforcement actions could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, distract management and technical personnel and negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. We or our clients may be a party to litigation involving our eCommerce intellectual property rights. If third parties claim we or our clients are infringing their intellectual property rights, we could incur significant litigation costs, be required to pay damages, or change our business or incur licensing expenses.. Third parties have asserted, and may in the future assert, that our business or the technologies we use infringe on their intellectual property rights. As a result, we or our clients may be subject to intellectual property legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of business. We cannot predict whether third parties will assert claims of infringement in the future or whether any future claims will prevent us from offering popular products or services. If we or our clients are found to infringe, we may be required to pay monetary damages, which could include treble damages and attorneys' fees for any infringement that is found to be willful, and either be enjoined or required to pay ongoing royalties with respect to any technologies found to infringe. Further, as a result of infringement claims either against us or our clients, we may be required, or deem it advisable, to develop non-infringing technology, which could be costly and time consuming, or enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may be unavailable on terms that are acceptable, or at all. If a third party successfully asserts an infringement claim against us or our clients and we are enjoined or required to pay monetary damages or royalties or we are unable to develop suitable non-infringing alternatives or license the infringed or similar technology on reasonable terms on a timely basis, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially harmed.. We rely on third party providers for a portion of our client services, and we are subject to various risks and liabilities if we are unable to continue our relationship with such providers, such providers do not provide the third party services or provide them in a manner that does not meet required service levels.. We currently, and may in the future, rely on third party providers to provide various material portions of our solution service offering. If our business relationship with a third-party provider of a material portion of our solution service offering is negatively affected, or is terminated, we might not be able to deliver the corresponding service offering to our clients, which could cause us to lose clients and future business, reducing our revenues. Under the terms of several of our contracts with our service clients, we remain liable to provide such third party services and may be liable for the actions and omissions of such third party providers. In certain instances, certain clients prepay in advance a portion of the service fees payable in respect of the third party services, and, under certain circumstances, including our breach or the breach by our third party provider of our or their respective obligations, we are liable to refund all or a portion of such prepaid fees. Consequently, in the event our third party provider fails to provide the third party services in compliance with required services levels, or otherwise breaches its obligations, or discontinues its business, whether as the result of bankruptcy, insolvency or otherwise, we may be required to provide such services at a higher cost to us and may otherwise be liable for various costs and expenses related to such event. In addition, any such failure may damage our reputation and otherwise result in a material adverse effect upon our business and financial condition.. We may incur liability for indemnification obligations under our contracts with our clients and business partners, which may have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We include indemnification provisions in the contracts we enter into with our clients and business partners. Generally, the provisions require us to defend claims arising out of our infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, breach of contractual obligations and/or unlawful or otherwise culpable conduct, including breach of data security. The indemnity obligations generally cover damages, costs and attorneys' fees arising out of such claims. In many instances, our indemnification obligations to our clients include the actions or omissions of our third-party service providers. Although we seek to limit our total liability under such. 17. provisions to either a portion of the value of the contract or a specified, agreed-upon amount, in some cases our total liability under such provisions is unlimited. Although in many cases our third party service providers indemnify us for their actions and omissions, such providers may dispute or be unable to satisfy their indemnification obligation to us. In addition, our indemnification obligation to our clients may be broader in scope, or may be subject to larger limitations of liability, than the indemnification obligation of our third party service providers to us. In most cases, the term of the indemnity provision is perpetual. If we are required to indemnify a claim in a material amount, or if a series of indemnification claims are in the aggregate a material amount, we may be required to expend significant resources to defend the claims, which may have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our business is subject to the risk of customer and supplier concentration.. Most of our client agreements state a contract expiration date, but many also include an early termination clause permitting the client to terminate the contract for convenience prior to its stated expiration date or to reduce the scope of services or delay the commencement of services to be provided under the contract. Termination, reduction, or delay of our services under a contract could result from factors unrelated to our work product or the progress of the project, such as factors related to business or financial conditions of the client, changes in client strategies or the domestic or global economy generally. The early termination, reduction or substantial delay of services any significant client, or nonrenewal of any significant client contract, or the nonpayment of a material amount of our service fees by a significant client, could have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operation and financial condition.. The majority of our Supplies Distributors product revenue is generated by sales of product purchased under distributor agreements with Ricoh Company Limited and Ricoh USA, Inc., a strategic business unit within the Ricoh Family Group of Companies (collectively hereafter referred to as \"Ricoh\"). These agreements are terminable at will and no assurance can be given that Ricoh will continue the distributor agreements with Supplies Distributors. Supplies Distributors does not have its own sales force and relies upon Ricoh's sales force and product demand generation activities for its sale of Ricoh product. As a result of certain operational restructuring of its business and its discontinuance of certain product lines, Ricoh has implemented, and will continue to implement, certain changes in the sale and distribution of Ricoh products. The changes have resulted, and are expected to continue to result, in reduced revenues and profitability for Supplies Distributors. Further material reduction in the Ricoh business may have a material adverse effect on Supplies Distributors' business and the termination of the Ricoh business would adversely affect our overall profitability.. Our operating results are materially impacted by our client mix and the seasonality of their business.. Our business is materially impacted by our client mix and the seasonality of their business. Based upon our current client mix and their current projected business volumes, we anticipate our service fee revenue business activity will be at its highest in our fourth quarter. We are unable to predict how the seasonality of future clients' business may affect our quarterly revenue and whether the seasonality may change due to modifications to a client's business. As such, we believe results of operations for a quarterly period may not be indicative of the results for any other quarter or for the full year.. Our systems may not accommodate significant growth in our number of clients; we may incorrectly design client solutions.. Our success depends on our ability to handle a large number of transactions for many different clients in various product categories and to design client solutions that are effective and profitable. We expect the volume of transactions will increase significantly as we expand our operations. In addition, client marketing programs, such as \"secret sales\", \"flash sales\" or holiday related promotions often result in significant short-term spikes in transaction volumes. When this occurs, additional stress is placed upon our network hardware and software and our ability to efficiently manage our operations, and we cannot assure you of our ability to efficiently manage a large number of transactions. In addition, if we incorrectly design a client solution, we may incur additional costs to operate the solution, which may result in the client solution being unprofitable or otherwise not meeting our margin targets. If we are not able to maintain an appropriate level of operating performance, we may be in breach of our client contractual obligations, develop a negative reputation, and impair existing and prospective client relationships and our business would be materially adversely affected.. We may not be able to recover all or a portion of our start-up costs associated with one or more of our clients.. We generally incur start-up costs in connection with the planning and implementation of business process solutions for our clients. Although we generally attempt to recover these costs from the client in the early stages of the client relationship, or upon contract termination if the client terminates without cause prior to full amortization of these costs, there is a risk that the client contract may not fully cover the start-up costs or that the client will terminate the contract for cause and withhold payment of any unamortized start-up costs. To the extent start-up costs exceed the start-up fees received, certain excess costs will be expensed as incurred. Additionally, in connection with new client contracts, we may incur capital expenditures associated with assets whose primary use is related to the client solution. There is a risk that the contract may end before expected and we may not recover the full amount of our capital costs.. 18. We face competition from many sources that could adversely affect our business; growth in our clients' ecommerce business may make it more efficient for the client to perform our services themselves.. Many companies offer, on an individual basis, one or more of the same services we do, and we face competition from many different sources depending upon the type and range of services requested by a potential client. Our competitors include vertical outsourcers, which are companies that offer a single function, such as call centers, public warehouses or professional services firms such as system integrators and digital agencies. We compete against transportation logistics providers who offer product management functions as an ancillary service to their primary transportation services. We also compete against other infrastructure service providers, who perform many similar services as us. Many of these companies have greater capabilities than we do for the single or multiple functions they provide. In addition, we compete against other professional service firms that have substantial offshore operations with lower labor costs, which enable them to offer lower pricing to potential clients. In many instances, our competition is the in-house operations of potential clients themselves. The in-house operations of potential clients often believe they can perform the same services we do, while others are reluctant to outsource business functions that involve direct customer contact. We cannot be certain we will be able to compete successfully against these or other competitors in the future.. In addition, growth in our clients' ecommerce businesses may cause a client to consider making the necessary investments to process their ecommerce operations in-house. In such event, unless we can provide a more cost-effective solution to the client, the client may choose to terminate our services. There is no assurance that we will be able to provide a more cost-effective solution, or that any such solution will not reduce our profitability or be accepted by the client.. Our sales and implementation cycles are highly variable and our ability to finalize pending contracts may cause our operating results to vary widely.. The sales cycle for our services is variable, typically ranging between several months to up to a year or longer from initial contact with the potential client to the signing of a contract. Occasionally the sales cycle requires substantially more time. Delays in signing and executing client contracts may affect our revenue and cause our operating results to vary widely. A potential client's decision to purchase our services is discretionary, involves a significant commitment of the client's resources and is influenced by intense internal and external pricing and operating comparisons. To successfully sell our services, we generally must educate our potential clients regarding the use and benefit of our services, which can require significant time and resources. Consequently, the period between initial contact and the purchase of our services is often long and subject to delays associated with the lengthy approval and competitive evaluation processes that typically accompany significant operational decisions. Additionally, the time required to finalize pending contracts and to implement our systems and integrate a new client can range from several weeks to many months. Delays in signing and integrating new clients may affect our revenue and cause our operating results to vary widely.. Our business could be adversely affected by a systems or equipment failure, whether ours or our clients.. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our distribution facilities, customer service centers, computer and telecommunications equipment and software systems against damage and failures. Damage or failures could result from fire, power loss, equipment malfunctions, system failures, natural disasters and other causes. If our business is interrupted either from accidents or the intentional acts of others, our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, in the event of widespread damage or failures at our facilities, our short-term disaster recovery and contingency plans and insurance coverage may not be sufficient.. Our clients' businesses may also be harmed from any system or equipment failures we experience. In that event, our relationship with these clients may be adversely affected, we may lose these clients, our ability to attract new clients may be adversely affected and we could be exposed to liability.. Interruptions could also result from the intentional acts of others, like hackers. If our systems are penetrated by computer hackers, or if computer viruses infect our systems, our computers could fail or proprietary information could be misappropriated.. If our clients suffer similar interruptions in their operations, for any of the reasons discussed above or for others, our business could also be adversely affected. Many of our clients' computer systems interface with our systems. If our clients suffer interruptions in their systems, the link to our systems could be severed and sales of the client's products could be slowed or stopped.. We and our clients may be subject to sales tax in one or more jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business.. We collect sales or other similar taxes for shipments of our and our clients' goods in certain states and jurisdictions. One or more local, state or foreign jurisdictions may seek to impose sales tax collection obligations on us and other out-of-state companies, including our clients, that engage in online commerce, depending upon the nexus we or our clients may have with that jurisdiction and the product or services being performed. If unexpected sales tax obligations are successfully imposed upon us or our clients by a state or other jurisdiction, we or our clients could be exposed to substantial tax liabilities for past sales and fines and penalties for failure to collect sales taxes and we or our clients could suffer decreased sales in that state or jurisdiction as the effective cost of purchasing goods from or through us increases for those residing in that state or jurisdiction. In addition, new legislation or regulation, the application of laws and regulations from jurisdictions whose laws do not currently apply to our business or the application of existing laws and regulations to the internet and commercial online services could result in significant additional taxes or regulatory. 19. restrictions on our business. These taxes could have an adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations. Furthermore, there is a possibility that we or our clients may be subject to significant fines or other payments for any past failures to comply with these requirements.. Determinations under government audits could negatively affect our business.. We provide services to a U.S. government agency under a contract that provides the agency with the right to audit and review our performance under the contract, our pricing practices, our cost structure, and our compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards. If a government audit determines that we are in breach of our contractual terms, or have engaged in improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of the contract, suspension of payments, or disqualification from continuing to do business, or bidding on new business, with this agency and other federal agencies.. We may recognize losses or reduced profitability if we do not accurately estimate the cost of engagements conducted on a fixed-price basis.. When making a proposal for or managing a fixed-price engagement, we rely on our estimates of costs and timing for delivering our services, which may be based on limited data and could be inaccurate. If we do not accurately estimate our costs and the timing for completion of a fixed-price project, the contract for such a project could prove unprofitable or yield a profit margin that is lower than expected. Losses, if any, on fixed-price contracts are recognized when the loss is determined. Any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of fixed-price contracts, including delays caused by factors outside of our control, could make these contracts less profitable or unprofitable and may affect the amount of revenue, profit, and profit margin reported in any period.. Risks Related to Our Industry. Our market is subject to rapid technological change and to compete we must continually enhance our systems to comply with evolving standards.. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality and features of our services and the underlying network infrastructure. If we are unable to adapt to changing market conditions, client requirements or emerging industry standards, our business could be adversely affected. The internet and eCommerce environments are characterized by rapid technological change, changes in user requirements and preferences, frequent new product and service introductions embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render our technology and systems obsolete. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to both internally develop and license leading technologies to enhance our existing services and develop new services. We must continue to address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our clients and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. The development of proprietary technology involves significant technical and business risks. We may fail to develop new technologies effectively or to adapt our proprietary technology and systems to client requirements or emerging industry standards.. Risks Related to Our Stock and/or Stockholders. Institutional shareholders hold a significant amount of our common stock and these shareholders may have conflicts of interests with the interests of our other shareholders.. As of December 31, 2017, institutional investors (including transcosmos, Inc., our largest shareholder) own or control approximately 84% of the voting power of our common stock. The interests of these shareholders may differ from our other shareholders in material respects. This concentration of voting power of our common stock may make it difficult for our other shareholders to approve or defeat matters that may be submitted for action by our shareholders, including the election of directors and amendments to our Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws. This also may have the effect of deterring, delaying, or preventing a change in control, even when such a change in control could benefit our other shareholders. These shareholders may have the power to exert significant influence over our affairs in ways that may be adverse to the interests of our other shareholders.. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. You may not be able to sell your shares at or above the price at which you purchased such shares.. The trading price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in operating results, announcements of material adverse events, general conditions in our industry or the public marketplace and other events or factors, including the thin trading of our common stock. In addition, stock markets have experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many technology-related companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, if our operating results differ from our. 20. announced guidance or the expectations of equity research analysts or investors, the price of our common stock could decrease significantly.. Our stock price could decline if a significant number of shares become available for sale.. The current and future issuance and/or vesting of shares of our common stock under our outstanding and future stock options, stock awards, performance shares and deferred stock units, sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the public market following the issuance and/or vesting of such shares, and/or the perception that future sales of these shares could occur, could reduce the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to sell equity securities in the future.. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, our shareholder rights plan and Delaware law make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, despite the possible benefit to our shareholders.. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, our shareholder rights plan and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. For example, our certificate of incorporation permits our Board of Directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock, which may have rights and preferences superior to those of the common stock. The ability to issue preferred stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring us. We have also adopted a shareholder rights plan. These provisions could discourage takeover attempts and could materially adversely affect the price of our stock. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit large shareholders from consummating a merger with, or acquisition of us. These provisions may prevent a merger or acquisition that would be attractive to shareholders and could limit the price investors would be willing to pay in the future for our common stock.. There are limitations on the liabilities of our directors and executive officers.. Pursuant to our bylaws and under Delaware law, our directors are not liable to us or our shareholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty, except for liability for breach of a director's duty of loyalty, acts or omissions by a director not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, or any transaction in which a director has derived an improper personal benefit.. Actions of activist shareholders could be disruptive and potentially costly, and the possibility that activist shareholders may seek changes that conflict with our strategic direction could cause uncertainty about the strategic direction of our business.. Activist investors may attempt to effect changes in our strategic direction or our business objectives, or to acquire control or Board representation to advocate corporate actions such as financial restructuring, stock repurchases or sales of assets or the entire company. Activist campaigns that contest or conflict with our strategic direction could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial conditions, as responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist shareholders can disrupt our operations, be costly and time consuming and divert the attention of our Board and senior management from the pursuit of business strategies. These types of actions could cause significant fluctuations in our stock price based on temporary or speculative market perceptions or other factors that do not necessarily reflect the underlying fundamentals and prospects of our business."
