[1] "ITEM 1A.     Risk Factors. The following discussion identifies the most significant risks or uncertainties that could (i) materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or prospects or (ii) cause our actual results to differ materially from our anticipated results or other expectations. You should carefully consider these factors, in addition to the other information set forth in this report, when evaluating our business and whether to purchase, sell or hold our securities. Please note that the following discussion is not intended to comprehensively list all risks or uncertainties faced by us. Our operations or actual results could also be similarly impacted by additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to us that we currently deem to be immaterial, that arise in the future, or that are not specific to us or our industry, such as general economic conditions.. Risks Inherent in our Industry. If we fail to maintain our safety record, our ability to attract and retain customers could be seriously harmed.. A favorable safety record is one of the primary factors a customer reviews in selecting an aviation services provider. If we fail to maintain our safety and reliability record, our ability to attract new customers and maintain our current customers could be materially adversely affected.. Helicopter operations are inherently risky, and our insurance may be insufficient to cover our losses.. The operation of helicopters inherently involves a high degree of risk. Aircraft accidents, collisions, fire, adverse weather, and other hazards may result in loss of life, serious injury to employees and third parties, damages to equipment or property owned by us or others, loss of revenues, termination of customer contracts, fines, penalties, restrictions on conducting business, increased insurance costs, or damage to our reputation or customer relationships. Accidents involving other helicopter companies could adversely impact us if they (i) cause governmental agencies to impose flight moratoriums or (ii) reduce demand for the specific model of helicopter involved in the accidents or for helicopter services generally.. We maintain hull and liability insurance on our aircraft, which insures us against physical loss of, or damage, to our aircraft and against certain legal liabilities to others. In addition, we carry war risk, expropriation, confiscation and nationalization insurance for our aircraft involved in international operations. We do not, however, carry insurance against all types of losses. For instance, we are not insured for loss of use of our aircraft, business interruption, or loss of flight hours.. While we believe that our insurance and indemnification arrangements provide reasonable protection for a substantial portion of our foreseeable losses, we cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to maintain adequate arrangements in the future. Moreover, our current arrangements are subject to deductibles, retentions, coverage limits, and coverage exceptions, the aggregate impact of which could be material. Accordingly, our incurrence of severe casualty losses, the expropriation or confiscation of significant assets, or other events that are not partially or fully covered by insurance could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, access to affordable insurance, or cash flows.. We furnish to and receive from our customers indemnities relating to damages caused or sustained by us in connection with our operations. Our customers' changing views on risk allocation could cause us to accept greater risk to win new business or could result in us losing business if we are not prepared to take such risks. To the extent that we accept such additional risk, and seek to insure against it, our insurance premiums could rise.. 6. Table of Contents. Negative publicity may adversely impact us.. Accidents, customer complaints or governmental investigations involving aircraft operated by us or another operator could cause substantial adverse publicity affecting us specifically or our industry generally. In either case, media coverage and public statements that insinuate improper actions by us or other industry participants, regardless of their factual accuracy or truthfulness, may result in negative publicity, litigation, governmental investigations, or additional regulation. Addressing negative publicity and any resulting litigation or investigations may distract management, increase costs, and divert resources. Negative publicity may have an adverse impact on our reputation and the morale of our employees, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Our aircraft have been involved in accidents in the past, some of which have included the loss of life and property damages. We may experience similar accidents in the future.. Our operations are affected by adverse weather conditions and seasonal factors.. We are subject to weather-related or seasonal factors, including primarily:. • poor weather conditions which often prevail during winter but can develop in any season;. • hurricanes, typhoons, cyclones or other tropical storms in the Gulf of Mexico or our other tropical or sub-tropical markets; and. • reduced daylight hours during the winter months.. Poor visibility, high winds and heavy precipitation can affect the operation of helicopters and significantly reduce our flight hours. A significant portion of our operating revenue is dependent on actual flight hours and a substantial portion of our direct costs is fixed. Thus, prolonged periods of adverse weather can materially and adversely affect our operating revenues and net earnings.. In most of our markets, the winter months generally have more days of adverse weather conditions than the other months of the year. Also, during the summer tropical storm season, we are unable to operate in the area of the storm and can incur significant expense in moving our aircraft to safer locations. In addition, as many of our offshore bases are located along coastal areas, hurricanes, typhoons, cyclones and other tropical storms may cause substantial damage to our property, including helicopters that we are unable to relocate.. Because the fall and winter months have fewer hours of daylight, our flight hours are generally lower at those times, which typically results in a reduction in operating revenues during those months.. Our helicopters may not always be profitably deployed.. Our helicopters may not always be profitably deployed. Customers often require a specific type of helicopter, which may be different from those in our fleet. The duration of our typical customer contract is generally too short to recover our full cost of purchasing a helicopter, subjecting us to the risk that we will be unable to recoup our investment in the helicopter. Helicopters we acquire may not be covered by customer contracts when they are added to our fleet. Once a new helicopter is delivered to us, we generally spend between two and three months installing mission-specific or customer-specific equipment before we place it into service. As a result, there can be a significant delay between the delivery date for a new helicopter and the time that it is able to generate revenues for us. In addition, unscheduled maintenance or repairs can interrupt our service and adversely impact our operating results. As discussed in greater detail elsewhere in this report, the downturn in the oil and gas industry since mid-2014 has significantly reduced the demand for and utilization of our fleet of offshore aircraft in recent years.. Moreover, we typically incur substantial fixed costs on our aircraft (including insurance, maintenance, crew wages and benefits, and lease costs, if applicable), regardless of whether they are operating. Accordingly, our inability to deploy aircraft has a substantial detrimental impact on the profitability of our operations.. The market for the sale of used aircraft is limited and volatile.. If we cannot find an acceptably profitable use for a helicopter, or if a helicopter no longer meets our strategic objectives, including due to age, we will frequently seek to sell it. Prices in the used helicopter market have been volatile over time, and we may incur gains or losses from the sale of helicopters. The number of aircraft sales and the amount of gains and losses recorded on these sales depends on a wide variety of factors, and is inherently unpredictable. Moreover, there may be limited or no demand for certain types of used aircraft, especially older medium or heavy helicopters. Recently, the demand for various types of used aircraft has diminished. Our inability to dispose of our aircraft in the secondary markets on acceptable terms or at all may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation and cash flow.. 7. Table of Contents. Our contracts generally can be terminated or downsized by our customers without penalty.. Most of our fixed-term contracts contain provisions permitting early termination by the customer, sometimes with as little as 30 days' notice for any reason and generally without penalty. In addition, many of our contracts permit our customers to decrease the number of aircraft under contract with a corresponding decrease in the fixed monthly payments without penalty. During the span of weak offshore market conditions that began in mid-2014, certain of our customers requested reductions in the number of aircraft under contract, pricing concessions or both, and we may receive additional such requests in the future. As a result, you should not place undue reliance on the existence or current terms of our customer contracts.. The aviation services business is competitive.. All segments of our business are highly competitive. We generally compete on the basis of safety, price, reliability, aircraft availability, experience, fleet configuration and quality of service.. We have two major competitors and several small competitors operating in the Gulf of Mexico, including leasing companies. We believe competition in our international offshore markets is as great or greater than the competition we face in the Gulf of Mexico. In addition, most of our customers and potential customers could operate their own helicopter fleets if they chose to do so.. Our Air Medical segment competes for business primarily under the independent provider model and, to a lesser extent, under the traditional provider model. Under the independent provider model, we have no contracts and no fixed revenue stream, but must compete for transport referrals on a daily basis with other independent operators in the area. Under the traditional provider model, we contract directly with the healthcare facilities to provide their transportation services, with the contracts typically awarded on a competitive bid basis. Under both models, we compete against national and regional companies, and there is usually more than one competitor in each local market. In addition, we compete against hospitals that operate their own helicopters. Demand for our Air Medical flight services would decrease if more hospitals in our operating areas develop their own aviation capability. Over the past several years, we believe the number of air medical helicopters operating in the U.S. has increased, thereby intensifying competitive pressures.. We depend on our ability to qualify as an eligible bidder under contract criteria and to compete successfully against other qualified bidders in order to obtain certain of our contracts.. Certain of our customers in each of our segments conduct competitive processes for awarding certain contracts pursued by us. We typically face strong competition and pricing pressures for competitively bid contract awards, and we may be required to qualify or continue to qualify under applicable contract criteria. Our inability to qualify as an eligible bidder under contract criteria could preclude us from competing for certain contract awards. In addition, our inability to qualify as an eligible bidder, or to compete successfully when bidding for certain contracts and to win those contracts, could materially adversely affect us.. Our customers might be able to obtain services comparable to ours through other forms of transportation.. In certain markets worldwide, oil and gas companies have elected to transport personnel and equipment to and from their offshore rigs and platforms through the use of marine transportation vessels, especially when such rigs and platforms are located close to shore. Technological improvements that increase the speed or efficiency of these vessels could reduce the demand for our oil and gas flight transportation services. For instance, the development and implementation of equipment that reduces the amount of time necessary to load personnel on and off offshore rigs and platforms could enhance the attractiveness of marine vessels and reduce demand for flight services.. Our Air Medical operations compete in certain markets with ground-based ambulance services. The construction of additional hospitals and medical treatment centers in currently unserved areas would likely increase the ability of ground-based ambulances to provide services currently provided by air medical providers such as us. Consequently, the construction of additional medical facilities in our markets could under certain circumstances reduce demand for our Air Medical flight transportation services.. The offshore helicopter services industry is cyclical.. The offshore helicopter services industry has historically been cyclical and is affected by the volatility of oil and gas price levels. There have been periods of high demand for our offshore services, followed by periods of low demand. Changes in commodity prices can have a significant effect on demand for our offshore services, and periods of low activity intensify price competition in the industry and could result in our aircraft being idle for prolonged periods. As noted elsewhere in this report, the downturn in the oil and gas markets since mid-2014 has impacted our operations by reducing our aircraft utilization rates and intensifying pricing pressures. Unless and until these market conditions change, we expect these trends will continue to negatively impact our business and operating results.. 8. Table of Contents. The market value of our offshore fleet of aircraft is cyclical.. The fair market value of each of our offshore aircraft is dependent upon a variety of factors, including:. • general economic and market conditions affecting the oil and gas industry, including commodity prices and the level of oil and gas exploration and production;. • the number of comparable aircraft servicing the market;. • the types and sizes of comparable aircraft available;. • the specific age and attributes of the aircraft;. • demand for the aircraft in different industries; and. • changes in regulation or competition from other air transport companies and other modes of transportation.. As a result of the decline of demand for our offshore aircraft and services since mid-2014, the fair market value of our offshore aircraft has declined in recent periods and may decline further in the future. Lower aircraft values can adversely impact us in several ways, including potential asset impairment charges, potential breaches of loan covenants or lower proceeds in the event of aircraft sales.. We depend on a small number of helicopter manufacturers for our supply of new helicopters.. There are a small number of helicopter manufacturers that can meet our needs for new aircraft to expand our fleet or replace aircraft that no longer meet our needs. These manufacturers have a limited capacity to produce new helicopters, particularly heavy helicopters. In addition, there is typically a substantial delay between the order and delivery dates for most new aircraft, especially new medium and heavy helicopters, which makes it more difficult to adjust quickly to changes in industry conditions. Significant unplanned delays could delay the implementation of our business strategies or materially increase our cost of meeting our commitments to our customers. If we are unable to obtain aircraft from these manufacturers with delivery dates, prices and other terms acceptable to us, our profitability and growth prospects could be adversely impacted, and the impact may be material.. We require aircraft components and parts for the maintenance and repair of aircraft, and supply constraints or cost increases could adversely affect our business.. In connection with maintaining and repairing our aircraft, we rely on a few key vendors for the supply and overhaul of components fitted to our aircraft. These vendors have historically worked at or near full capacity supporting the aircraft production lines and the maintenance requirements of a range of customers. From time to time, these vendors may experience backlogs in their delivery schedules, and some parts may be in limited supply. If we are unable to perform timely maintenance and repairs, our aircraft may be unable to meet contract demands or may be underutilized, which could have an adverse impact on our financial performance. Additionally, cost increases for critical aircraft components or repair services could also reduce the profitability of our operations. Supply constraints or cost increases for important aircraft components and services could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Obtaining supplies of aircraft components and parts can be more challenging or costly in our foreign operations. In connection with conducting operations in foreign locations, we typically attempt to store nearby a sufficient amount of key integral parts. If we store too few of these parts, we could incur the type of maintenance and repair delays described above. On the other hand, if we store too many parts in remote locations, a portion of them could become unusable or obsolete, causing us to record impairment charges.. Failure to develop or implement new technologies could affect our results of operations.. Many of the aircraft that we operate are characterized by changing technology and shifting client or regulatory demands, including technology preferences. Our future growth and financial performance will depend in part upon our ability to develop, market and integrate new services and to accommodate the latest technological advances and client preferences. If we are unable to upgrade our operations or fleet with the latest technological advances in a timely manner, or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted.. Our Air Medical operations expose us to numerous special risks, including collection risks and potential medical malpractice claims.. Our Air Medical operations expose us to a number of risks that we do not encounter in our Oil and Gas operations. For instance, the fees for our Air Medical services generally are paid by insurance companies, government agencies under federal programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, or individual patients. Reimbursement rates vary among payor types, with commercial insurers typically reimbursing us at a higher rate than Medicare, Medicaid, and self-pay reimbursement rates. We respond to calls for emergency air medical transport without reviewing the creditworthiness or insurance coverage of the patient and are not permitted to refuse service to patients based on their inability to pay. As a result, the profitability of our Air Medical operations depends not only on our ability to generate an acceptable volume of patient transports, but also on our ability to collect our transport fees.. 9. Table of Contents. Because our mix of customers is subject to change and their payment rates vary, the collection rates of our Air Medical invoices are more volatile than the collection rates of our Oil and Gas invoices.. Our reliance on our ability to collect air medical transport fees gives rise to several risks. Complexity associated with patient billing typically causes delays in the collection process, which decreases our cash flows and frequently increases the risk of nonpayment. As noted further below, our collection rates are directly impacted by the number of payments we receive from third party payors and the rates they are willing or authorized by law to pay. Our collection rates may decline due to several factors beyond our control, including (i) an aging population that causes more patients to become eligible for Medicare coverage and (ii) continuing federal and state legislative action that increases the number of younger patients eligible for Medicaid coverage.. We employ paramedics, nurses, and other medical professionals for these operations, which can give rise to medical malpractice claims against us, which, if not fully covered by our medical malpractice insurance, could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In the normal course of transporting patients, we may come into contact with individuals suffering from an infectious disease, which could be transmitted to our employees or others. These transmissions could give rise to employee shortages, quarantines, or medical malpractice claims, any of which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Relating to Our Recently-Completed Acquisition of HNZ's Offshore Aviation Business. We may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of the HNZ Offshore Business.. We will be required to devote management attention and resources to integrating certain of our business practices, operations and strategies with those of the HNZ Offshore Business, and to completing the final stages of the transaction. We may encounter difficulties in connection with these processes, including the following:. • the complexities associated with managing the combined businesses out of several different locations and integrating personnel from the two companies, while at the same time attempting to provide consistent, high quality services under a unified culture;. • the additional complexities of combining businesses with different markets, customer bases, histories and regulatory restrictions;. • the failure to retain key employees of either of the two companies;. • unanticipated impediments in integrating systems, technologies, books and records, procedures and policies, and in maintaining uniform standards and controls, including internal control over financial reporting;. • the inability to negotiate and receive regulatory approval of definitive arrangements necessary to complete the final stages of the transaction;. • potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or regulatory conditions associated with the acquisition; and. • performance shortfalls at one or both of the two companies as a result of the diversion of management's attention caused by integrating the companies' operations.. In addition, while we are engaged in integrating the acquired operations and completing the transaction, we may be unable to pursue other strategic transactions, undertake significant capital projects, undertake certain significant financing transactions and otherwise pursue other similar actions, even if such actions would prove beneficial.. For all these reasons, you should be aware that the process of integrating the businesses and completing the transaction could result in the distraction of our management, the disruption of our ongoing business or inconsistencies in our services, standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, vendors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, or could otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results.. We may be unable to retain key employees following the acquisition of the HNZ offshore business.. Our success after the acquisition of the HNZ Offshore Business will depend in part upon our ability to retain key PHI and HNZ offshore employees. Key employees may depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with us following the acquisition. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that we will be able to retain key employees to the same extent that we or HNZ have been able to in the past.. We expect to incur expenses related to our acquisition of the HNZ offshore business.. Although we currently envision initially operating the newly-acquired HNZ operations on a standalone basis, we nonetheless expect to incur expenses in connection with integrating certain of HNZ's offshore operations, networks, systems, technologies, policies and procedures with ours. We also expect to continue to incur costs to complete the final stages of the transaction. While we have assumed that a certain level of transaction and integration expenses would be incurred, there are a number of factors. 10. Table of Contents. beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of these expenses. Many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately at the present time. Due to these factors, these expenses could be greater than currently anticipated, and could reduce the profitability of our investment in the HNZ Offshore Business.. Risks Relating to Regulatory Matters. Our operations are heavily regulated, which restricts our flexibility and subjects us to various costs and compliance risks.. The aviation services industry is regulated by various laws and regulations that apply to the domestic and international markets in which we operate.. Our domestic operations are heavily regulated by a number of federal and state agencies. All of our U.S. flight operations are regulated by the FAA. Aircraft accidents are subject to the jurisdiction of the National Transportation Safety Board. Standards relating to workplace health and safety are monitored by OSHA. We are also subject to various federal and state healthcare, communications, and other laws and regulations.. The FAA has jurisdiction over many aspects of our business, including personnel, aircraft, maintenance, training and ground facilities, and has the power to suspend or curtail the use of aircraft deemed unsafe. We are required to have an Air Taxi Certificate, granted by the FAA, to transport personnel and property domestically in our helicopters. This certificate contains operating specifications that allow us to conduct our present operations, but it is potentially subject to amendment, suspension, or revocation in accordance with procedures set forth in the Federal Aviation Act of 1958. In recent years, the FAA has imposed separate safety rules applicable to helicopter air ambulance service, which has increased our capital costs.. FAA regulations currently require that at least 75% of our voting securities be owned or controlled by citizens of the U.S. or one of its possessions, and that our president and at least two-thirds of our directors be U.S. citizens. Currently, our president and each of our directors are U.S. citizens. Moreover, as noted further below under the heading \" -  Other Risks Specific to our Company  -  Our articles of incorporation limit the ownership of voting securities by persons who are not U.S. Citizens, which could have adverse effects,\" our charter provides for the automatic reduction in voting power of each share of voting common stock owned or controlled by a non-U.S. citizen if necessary to comply with these regulations.. Our domestic operations are subject to significant regulatory oversight by OSHA and similar state agencies and are also subject to the Communications Act of 1934 because of our ownership and operation of radio communications networks that we use to communicate with our pilots throughout our market territories.. Numerous other federal statutes and rules extensively regulate our domestic offshore operations and those of our oil and gas customers. Under these statutes and rules, the federal government has broad discretion to establish the terms under which offshore properties are leased and operated, and to suspend, curtail, or modify certain or all offshore operations. A suspension or substantial curtailment of offshore oil and gas operations for any prolonged period would have an immediate and materially adverse effect on us. A substantial modification of offshore operations could adversely affect the economics of such operations and result in reduced demand for our services. For additional related information, see \" -  Other Risks Specific to our Company\" below.. In each of the international jurisdictions in which we operate, we typically must comply with a broad range of aviation and safety laws similar to those described above. In most of those markets, we must obtain approvals from civil aviation regulators to provide services. These regulatory requirements could delay, impede or prevent us from implementing plans to enter new international markets.. As noted in greater detail in the risk factors below, the healthcare industry is heavily regulated and closely scrutinized by federal, state and local governments. Among other things, these laws and regulations govern our reimbursements from Medicare and Medicaid and the privacy and security of the medical records of patients transported by us. Our domestic Air Medical operations are subject to regulation by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, and further require us to obtain, maintain and periodically renew various state ambulance licenses. If we cannot timely obtain and thereafter maintain and renew these licenses in our operating markets, our ability to conduct or expand our Air Medical operations could be adversely affected.. Many of the principal governmental agencies that regulate us regularly conduct audits or inspections of our aircraft, facilities, training procedures, records or operations, and, if warranted by their findings, investigations of our affairs. Several of these agencies also require us to file reports confirming our continued compliance with applicable regulations. This continuous monitoring of our operations increases the risk that regulators will allege that we have failed to comply with all applicable laws and regulations.. If we fail to comply with certain of the regulations cited above, we could lose our operating authority or participation rights under one or more of the above-described licenses, certificates, programs or laws. In addition, these detailed regulations increase our operating and compliance costs, limit our operational flexibility, and subject us to the risk of substantial fines and penalties in the event we fail to comply therewith.. 11. Table of Contents. Our operations are subject to stringent and comprehensive environmental laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities.. Our operations are subject to stringent laws and regulations relating to environmental protection. Inherent in our business is the risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities due to our (i) handling of petroleum products and generated wastes, (ii) air emissions and wastewater discharges, and (iii) historical operations and waste disposal practices. Environmental laws and regulations generally require us to obtain permits such as air emissions and wastewater permits, require us to remain in compliance with the permits, restrict the types, quantities and concentration of materials that can be released into the environment in connection with regulated activities, and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from operations. Several of these laws impose joint and several strict liability on responsible parties. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations or the terms or conditions of required environmental permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil or criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations or corrective actions, and the issuance of injunctions limiting or prohibiting some or all of our operations. In many cases, we would not be able to recoup our losses from insurance.. We currently own or lease, and have in the past owned or leased, properties that have been used for many years by us or others for various aviation operational support and maintenance activities. Petroleum products and wastes may have been disposed or released on or under properties owned or leased by us or on or under other locations where we have arranged for such petroleum products or wastes to be taken for disposal or recycling. In addition, many of these properties have been operated by third parties whose treatment and disposal or release of petroleum products or wastes were not under our control.. Our Air Medical operations are governed by various federal and state laws and regulations concerning the disposal of medical wastes. Similar to the regulation of other hazardous substances, the regulation of the labeling, transportation and disposal of medical waste is rigorous, and subjects us to substantial potential penalties in the event we fail to comply therewith.. Changes in any of the above-described laws, regulations or enforcement policies could require us to obtain more costly pollution control equipment or subject us to more stringent waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements or other unforeseen liabilities, any of which could require us to make significant expenditures. For example, certain domestic or foreign governmental bodies have pursued regulatory initiatives designed to restrict the emission of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases. Any adoption of laws or regulations that limits emissions of greenhouse gases from equipment or operations could result in increased costs to reduce such emissions from our operations as well as those of our customers and could adversely affect demand for our services.. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated and if we fail to comply with these laws and government regulations, we could incur penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations.. As noted above, the healthcare industry is heavily regulated and closely scrutinized by various federal, state and local governmental agencies. Comprehensive statutes and regulations govern the manner in which we provide and bill for services, our contractual relationships with our vendors and customers, our marketing activities and other aspects of our operations. Some of these laws are further described below. Failure to comply with these laws can result in civil and criminal penalties such as fines, damages and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The risk of us being found to be in violation of these laws and regulations is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are sometimes open to a variety of interpretations. Any action against us for violation of these laws or regulations, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business.. In addition, certain state laws or regulations require our Air Medical operations to obtain and maintain accreditation with specified accreditation authorities. The accreditation process is rigorous, and any failure to obtain or maintain accreditation in any particular state could expose us to fines, penalties, loss of contracts or reputational harm.. Changes in healthcare laws and regulation could have a material impact on our business.. In 2010, the U.S. Congress enacted the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (\"PPACA\"), which comprehensively reformed the domestic healthcare regulatory system by introducing changes designed to expand the number of Americans with healthcare coverage and to control healthcare costs. The long-term impact of the continuing implementation of the PPACA on our Air Medical operations remains uncertain, because any benefits we may receive from serving fewer uninsured patients may be partly or fully offset by any resulting decrease in reimbursement rates per flight from Medicaid, Medicare and commercial insurance payors or by any increase in the number of Medicaid payors. During 2017, the U.S. Congress took certain steps that could substantially impact the availability of healthcare coverage in the U.S. Any such changes could have a material impact on our Air Medical operations. We also anticipate that Congress, state legislatures and third-party payors may continue to review and assess alternative healthcare delivery and payment systems, which could result in additional fundamental changes in the U.S. healthcare system. Moreover, changes in the leadership of governmental agencies that regulate us could lead to changes in healthcare regulations or. 12. Table of Contents. policies or changes in the manner in which they are interpreted or enforced. For all these reasons, we cannot currently assess the ultimate impact of prevailing and future healthcare laws and regulations on our business, operations, financial results or prospects.. Our Air Medical operations are subject to comprehensive and complex laws and rules that govern the manner in which we bill and are paid for our services by third party payors, and our failure to comply with these rules could have serious consequences.. Like most healthcare providers, the majority of our Air Medical services are paid for by private and governmental third party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid. These third party payors typically have differing and complex billing and documentation requirements that we must meet in order to receive payment for our services. Reimbursement to us is typically conditioned on our providing the correct codes and properly documenting the services, including the level of service provided, the medical necessity for the services, and the site of service.. We must also comply with numerous other laws applicable to our Air Medical documentation and the claims we submit for payment, including but not limited to (1) \"coordination of benefits\" rules that dictate which payor we must bill first when a patient has potential coverage from multiple payors; (2) requirements that we timely repay any payor which pays us more than the amount to which we are entitled; (3) limitations on who we can bill for certain services; (4) requirements that our electronic claims for payment be submitted using certain standardized transaction codes and formats; and (5) laws requiring us to handle all health and financial information of our patients in a manner that complies with specified security and privacy standards. From time to time, the failure of the federal government to timely issue Medicare or Medicaid billing numbers has impeded our potential to expand operations.. Governmental and private third party payors and other enforcement agencies carefully audit and monitor our compliance with these and other applicable rules. Our failure to comply with the billing and other rules applicable to us could result in non-payment for services rendered or refunds of amounts previously paid for such services. In addition, non-compliance with these rules may cause us to incur civil and criminal penalties, including fines and exclusion from government healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, under a number of state and federal laws.. Changes in the rates or methods of third-party reimbursements may adversely affect Air Medical's revenue and operations.. Our Air Medical segment derives most of its revenue from billings to third-party payors such as Medicare, Medicaid and private health insurance companies. As a result, any unfavorable changes in the rates or methods of reimbursement for the services we provide could have a significant adverse impact on our revenue and financial results. Over the past several years, the U.S. Congress has taken steps to contain or reduce Medicare and Medicaid spending levels, which has resulted in lower reimbursement rates for our services and constrained our ability to charge higher amounts to cover cost increases. In addition to the above-described changes in reimbursement rates effected pursuant to the PPACA, in 2012 the U.S. Congress adopted legislation implementing \"sequestration\" reductions in federal spending. Under these \"sequestration\" budget cuts (as subsequently extended by Congress), Medicare provider payments have been reduced by 2% annually commencing April 1, 2013, and are scheduled to remain in effect through 2023.. We believe that regulatory trends in cost containment will continue, and that additional budget cuts might be imposed in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to offset reduced operating margins through cost reductions, increased volume, or otherwise. Future rate reductions could place downward pressure on the rates payable by private health insurance providers. Any such rate reductions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Under federal privacy laws, our Air Medical operations are subject to more stringent penalties in the event we improperly use or disclose protected health information regarding our patients.. Certain privacy regulations promulgated under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, contain detailed requirements concerning the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health information by our Air Medical operations. In addition to complying with these privacy requirements, we must implement certain administrative, physical, and technical security standards to protect the integrity, confidentiality and availability of certain electronic health information received, maintained, or transmitted by us or our business associates. Subsequent federal legislation or regulations have increased both the risk and consequences of enforcement actions, and increased our obligations to notify patients, the federal government or the media in the event of certain specified breaches of protected health data.. Many states in which we operate also have state laws that protect the privacy and security of confidential personal information. These laws may be similar to or even more protective than the federal provisions. Not only may some of these state laws impose fines and penalties upon violators, but some may afford private rights of action to individuals who believe their personal information has been misused. California's patient privacy laws, for example, provide for substantial penalties and permit injured parties to sue for damages.. 13. Table of Contents. Our relationships with our vendors and customers and our marketing practices are subject to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and similar state laws.. We are subject to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits the knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of \"remuneration\" in return for, or to induce, the referral of business or ordering of services paid for by Medicare or other federal programs. As broadly interpreted by the courts, the Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits many arrangements and practices that are lawful in businesses outside of the healthcare industry. Violations of the Anti-Kickback Statute can result in imprisonment, civil or criminal fines or exclusion from Medicare and other governmental programs. Many states have adopted laws similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, although some are broader in scope. Exclusions from liability differ from state to state, rendering compliance more difficult and uncertain.. The federal False Claims Act is used frequently by the government and private parties against healthcare providers in challenging the accuracy of their claims for reimbursement and other conduct related to such claims.. The federal False Claims Act imposes liability on any person or entity who, among other things, knowingly presents, or causes to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment by a federal healthcare program. The False Claims Act allows a private individual to bring \"qui tam\" actions on behalf of the federal government alleging that the defendant has submitted a false claim to the federal government, and to share in any monetary recovery. In recent years, the number of suits brought by private individuals has increased dramatically. In addition, various states have enacted false claim laws analogous to the False Claims Act. Many of these state laws apply where a claim is submitted to any third party payor and not merely a federal healthcare program.. Certain regulations dictate how we have structured our operations, and subject us to various costs and uncertainties.. The U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services require us to complete and periodically update enrollment forms in order to obtain and maintain certification to receive reimbursements from Medicare and Medicaid. Under applicable regulations, relatively inconsequential changes in our corporate structure or ownership might require us to provide notice of the changes and to re-enroll or take other steps necessary to maintain our certification to participate in these programs. In addition, certain FAA regulations are designed to ensure that license holders can demonstrate their control of assets, services and competent personnel necessary to provide safe flight services. In response to these regulatory requirements, we have segregated the operations of our different operating segments, which in certain instances has increased our operating and administrative costs. Although we believe our organizational structure is substantially consistent with applicable governmental regulations, we cannot assure you of this.. We are exposed to risks arising out of regulations and disclosure standards affecting all U.S. public companies.. Laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act adopted in 2002 and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act adopted in 2010, and related regulations implemented thereunder, have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and made some activities more time consuming. Any failure to successfully or timely complete annual assessments of our internal controls required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could subject us to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results or our reputation with investors, lenders and others.. If we are unable to effectively adapt to changes in the healthcare industry, our business may be harmed.. Political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry in the United States to fundamental change. As noted above, the long-term impact of the PPACA remains unknown, but could be substantial. We anticipate that Congress and state legislatures will continue to review and assess alternative healthcare delivery and payment systems and may in the future propose and adopt legislation effecting additional fundamental changes in the healthcare delivery system. We cannot assure you as to the ultimate content, timing or effect of changes, nor is it possible at this time to estimate the impact of potential legislation. Similarly, changes in private payor reimbursement programs could lead to adverse changes in government payor programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Changes in any of the above-described laws or regulations may limit our ability to plan and could subject us to further costs or constraints.. From time to time, the laws or regulations governing us or our customers, or the government's policy of enforcing those laws or regulations, have changed frequently and materially, particularly in the recent past with respect to laws applicable to medical operations. The variability of these laws could hamper the ability of us and our customers to plan for the future or establish long-term strategies. Moreover, future changes in these laws or regulations could further increase our operating or compliance costs, or further restrict our operational flexibility, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, competitive position, financial condition or prospects.. 14. Table of Contents. Risks Related to our Liquidity and Capital Resources. Our substantial indebtedness and operating lease commitments could adversely affect our financial condition and impair our ability to operate our business.. We are a highly leveraged company and, as a result, have significant debt services obligations. We also have significant operating lease commitments and, as a result, have significant rent expense.. As of December 31, 2017, our total indebtedness was $617.5 million, consisting of $500.0 million of our 5.25% Senior Notes due 2019 and $117.5 million of borrowings outstanding under our $130.0 million revolving credit facility, which matures in 2019. Under our revolving credit facility and a separate letter of credit facility, we also had $7.6 million and $12.4 million, respectively, of letters of credit outstanding at December 31, 2017. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $203.1 million of aggregate lease commitments. For additional information on our indebtedness and commitments, please see Items 7 and 8 of this report.. The degree to which we are leveraged or may become leveraged in the future could have important consequences to our equity and debt holders, including:. • limiting our ability to access the capital markets, particularly if, as discussed further in the risk factor disclosure below, (i) the ratings assigned to our debt securities by nationally recognized credit rating organizations are revised downward or (ii) we seek capital during periods of turbulent or unsettled market conditions;. • hindering our ability to capitalize on business opportunities and to plan for or react to changing market, industry, competitive or economic conditions;. • limiting the amount of cash flow available for use in the business, including for working capital, capital expenditures, aircraft purchases, future operations, acquisitions, expansion or other uses, or to carry out other aspects of our business plan;. • making us more vulnerable to economic or industry downturns, including interest rate increases;. • increasing our future borrowing costs;. • increasing the risk that third parties will be unwilling or unable to engage in hedging or other financial or commercial arrangements with us;. • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors;. • increasing the risk that we will need to sell securities or assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, to meet payment obligations; or. • increasing the risk that we may not meet the financial covenants contained in our debt agreements or timely make all required debt payments, either of which could result in the acceleration of some or all of our outstanding indebtedness.. Subject to the limits contained in our existing debt instruments, we may be able to incur substantial additional debt from time to time. If we do so, the effects of each of these factors could be intensified.. Our business requires us to incur substantial capital expenditures.. Our business is capital intensive, and we anticipate that our capital requirements will continue to be significant in the future. Our capital expenditures relate primarily to the purchase of aircraft, including purchases of aircraft under purchase options, as well as capital improvements that enhance the value or safety of our aircraft and related infrastructure or that are necessitated by changes in technology, regulation or customer preferences. If we fail to adequately invest in our aircraft and related infrastructure in the future, the competitiveness of our fleet and service offerings could suffer.. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and other commitments will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors, many of which we are unable to control.. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and under our operating leases and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This is subject to conditions in the oil and gas and air medical industries, general economic and financial conditions, the impact of legislative and regulatory actions on how we conduct our business, and several other factors, all or most of which are beyond our control. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt and operating lease obligations, or to obtain alternative financings, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Failure to comply with covenants in our debt instruments could adversely affect our business.. Our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our 5.25% Senior Notes due 2019 limit, among other things, our ability to:. • pay cash dividends or distributions on our capital stock or redeem or repurchase our capital stock;. • make certain investments;. 15. Table of Contents. • create certain liens on our assets to secure debt;. • consolidate, merge or enter into other business combination transactions;. • issue and sell capital stock of our subsidiaries;. • incur additional indebtedness or issue certain capital stock;. • enter into different lines of business;. • enter into agreements that restrict dividends or other payments from our subsidiaries to us;. • participate in activities through business entities that are not subsidiaries;. • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and. • transfer or sell assets.. In addition, our revolving credit facility requires, and our future credit facilities may require, us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests, and may require us to take action to reduce our debt or take some other action to comply with them. Our ability to meet these financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet them in the future. These restrictions could also limit our ability to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a downturn in our business or the economy in general, or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. We may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations imposed on us by the restrictive covenants under our revolving credit facility and the above-described indenture governing our 5.25% Senior Notes due 2019.. During the third quarter of 2016, our revolving credit facility lenders agreed to amend one of our financial covenants to alleviate concerns about our future ability to remain in compliance therewith, and in the fourth quarter of 2017 these lenders waived our obligation to comply with our fixed charge coverage ratio for the fourth quarter of 2017 and first quarter of 2018. Our failure in the future to satisfy any of the financial covenants in our revolving credit facility could cause us to suffer an event of default, which could, among other things, accelerate our obligations under such facility or preclude us from making future borrowings thereunder. Moreover, in some cases any breach of these covenants or any other default under our revolving credit facility may create an event of default under our 5.25% Senior Notes due 2019, resulting in the acceleration of our obligation to pay principal, interest and potential penalties under such Notes (even though we may otherwise be in compliance with our obligations under those Notes and the associated indenture). Our revolving credit facility includes a similar cross-default provision. Thus, an event of default under either our revolving credit facility or 5.25% Senior Notes due 2019, including one that is technical in nature or otherwise not material, could result in the acceleration of significant indebtedness under the other. If we were to default under our debt obligations, we cannot assure you that we would be able to borrow or otherwise obtain enough cash to repay the accelerated indebtedness.. As noted above, if we are unable to make required debt payments or refinance our debt, we would likely have to consider other options, such as selling assets, issuing additional securities, cutting costs or otherwise reducing our cash requirements, or negotiating with our lenders to restructure our applicable debt. Our current and future debt instruments may restrict, or market or business conditions may limit, our ability to do some of these things on favorable terms, or at all.. Upon a change of control, holders of our public debt securities will have the right to require us to purchase their notes, which could have certain adverse ramifications.. Upon a \"Change of Control Repurchase Event\" (as defined in the indenture governing our 5.25% Senior Notes due 2019), each holder of our 5.25% Senior Notes due 2019 will have the right to require us to purchase any or all of that holder's notes. If, due to lack of cash, legal or contractual impediments, or otherwise, we fail to discharge these obligations, such failure could constitute an event of default under such notes, which could in turn constitute a default under other of our agreements relating to our indebtedness outstanding at that time. In addition, actions taken by us to comply with these purchase obligations could constitute a default under our revolving credit facility, unless waived by the lender. Moreover, the existence of these purchase obligations may in certain circumstances make more difficult or discourage a sale or takeover of us or the removal of our incumbent directors.. Any downgrade in the credit ratings for our public debt securities could limit our ability to obtain future financing, increase our borrowing costs and adversely affect the market price of our outstanding debt securities, or otherwise impair our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Credit rating agencies continually review their ratings for the companies that they follow, including us. Credit rating agencies also evaluate the industries in which we and our affiliates operate as a whole and may change their credit rating for us based on their overall view of such industries. There can be no assurance that any rating assigned to our currently outstanding public debt securities will remain in effect for any given period of time or that any such ratings will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in that rating agency's judgment, circumstances so warrant.. A downgrade of our credit ratings could, among other things:. • limit our access to the capital markets or otherwise adversely affect the availability of other new financing on favorable terms, if at all;. 16. Table of Contents. • result in more restrictive covenants in agreements governing the terms of any future indebtedness that we may incur;. • increase our cost of borrowing;. • adversely affect the market price of our outstanding equity securities or our 5.25% Senior Notes due 2019; and. • impair our business, financial condition and results of operation.. We expect to periodically require financing, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such financing on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all.. We have a significant amount of indebtedness that we typically refinance from time to time, principally through the issuance of new debt securities, including our 5.25% Senior Notes due 2019. Moreover, we might seek financing from time to time to fund other cash requirements, such as financing acquisitions of businesses or aircraft or paying unanticipated liabilities. Our ability to arrange additional financing will depend on, among other factors, our financial position, performance, and credit ratings, as well as prevailing market conditions and other factors beyond our control. Global financial markets continue to be volatile. Prevailing market conditions could be adversely affected by (i) general economic conditions, such as disruptions in domestic or overseas sovereign debt markets, geo-political instabilities, contractions or limited growth in the economy or other similar adverse economic developments in the U.S. or abroad, and (ii) specific conditions in the oil and gas industry, such as low commodity prices. Volatility in the global markets, among other factors, could limit our access to the credit markets, leading to higher borrowing costs or our inability to obtain financing on terms that are as favorable as those from which we previously benefitted, on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all.  In addition, our ability to borrow funds in the future will depend in part on the satisfaction of the covenants in our revolving credit facility and senior notes, which are discussed further above. Our access to funds under our revolving credit facility is further dependent upon the ability of the facility's lenders to meet their funding commitments.  If one or more of the lenders fails to fund, the remaining lenders will not be legally obligated to rectify the funding shortfall. For all the reasons mentioned above, we can give no assurance that additional financing for any of these purposes will be available on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. Any such failure to obtain additional financing could jeopardize our ability to repay, refinance or reduce our debt obligations or to meet our other financial commitments.. Our senior notes are unsecured and will be effectively subordinated to any secured indebtedness.. Our currently outstanding senior notes are unsecured and are effectively subordinated to any of our existing or future secured indebtedness, to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness, and any debt or liabilities of our non-guarantor subsidiaries. In the event of a bankruptcy or similar proceeding, the assets that serve as collateral for any secured indebtedness would generally be available to satisfy our obligations under such secured indebtedness, and would not be expected to be available to satisfy other claims.. Other Risks Specific to our Company. We are highly dependent on the offshore oil and gas industry.. Approximately 51% of our 2017 operating revenue was attributable to providing helicopter services for offshore oil and gas exploration and production companies, most of which was in the Gulf of Mexico. Following our acquisition of HNZ's offshore business on December 29, 2017, we expect that an even larger percentage of our revenues will be derived from similar work in 2018. Our business is highly dependent on the level of exploration, development and production activity by oil and gas companies, particularly in the Gulf of Mexico and the Asia-Pacific region. The level of exploration, development and production activity is directly affected by trends in oil and gas prices, which historically have been volatile and difficult to predict. Oil and gas prices are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand, economic growth trends, market uncertainty and a variety of other factors beyond our control. Lower oil and natural gas prices generally lead to decreased spending by our customers over time.. The level of prevailing oil and gas prices depends on various factors that we cannot control, including:. • the supply of, and demand for, oil and natural gas and market expectations regarding supply and demand;. • the cost of exploring for, developing and producing oil and gas;. • weather-related or other natural causes;. • actions of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and Middle Eastern and other oil producing countries to control prices or change production levels;. • changes in exploration, development or production technologies relating to offshore or onshore oil and gas deposits;. • the price and availability of alternative fuels or energy sources;. • the extent to which taxes, tax credits, environmental regulations, auctions of mineral rights, drilling permits, drilling concessions, drilling moratoriums (including actions similar to the moratorium imposed as a result of the Deepwater Horizon accident described below) or other governmental regulations, actions or policies affect the production, cost of production, price or availability of petroleum products and alternative energy sources;. 17. Table of Contents. • general economic and political conditions in the United States and worldwide; and. • geo-political instabilities, including those resulting from war, civil unrest or terrorist activities.. Any substantial or extended decline in the price of oil or natural gas, such as the one that commenced in mid-2014, depresses the level of helicopter activity in support of exploration and production activity and thus reduces the demand for our offshore flight services.. Moreover, weakness in the oil and gas industry generally weakens the financial position of our customers, which in turn could cause them to fail to pay amounts owed to us in a timely manner or at all. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. The Gulf of Mexico is generally considered to be a mature area for oil and gas exploration, which may result in a continuing decrease in activity over time. This could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the concentrated nature of our operations subjects us to the risk that a regional event could cause a significant interruption in our operations or otherwise have a material effect on our profitability.. Changes in industry conditions that increase the prospects or profitability of onshore drilling, which generally does not require use of our helicopter services, could have an adverse effect on our operations. For instance, if onshore fracking were to meaningfully increase the supply of hydrocarbons, it could potentially reduce the level of domestic or foreign offshore exploration and production activity and the demand for our helicopter services.. The demand for oil and natural gas could be influenced by changes in technology or other events outside of our control. Increased use of battery-powered vehicles or other alternative energy sources could significantly reduce the demand for fossil fuels.. The implementation of cost-saving measures by our oil and gas customers could result in lower demand for our services.. Companies in the oil and gas exploration and production industry continually seek to implement cost-savings measures, especially when prevailing oil and gas prices are depressed. As part of these measures, oil and gas companies have attempted to improve operating efficiencies with respect to helicopter support services. For example, certain oil and gas companies have pooled helicopter services among operators, reduced staffing levels by using technology to permit unmanned production installations and decreased the frequency of transportation of employees offshore by increasing the lengths of shifts offshore. The continued implementation of such measures or any decision of these companies to initiate their own helicopter support services could reduce demand or prevailing prices for our offshore helicopter services and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We are heavily dependent on servicing deepwater facilities in the Gulf of Mexico with heavy aircraft.. Approximately 50% of our oil and gas segment revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017 were attributable to our deepwater operations in the Gulf of Mexico. The operations of our recently-acquired HNZ offshore business are similarly focused primarily on servicing deepwater facilities in the Asia-Pacific region. Consequently, our oil and gas operations are significantly dependent upon the availability of the heavy aircraft that we have purchased to service this market segment. If regulatory authorities, PHI, or PHI's customers were to deem these aircraft unsafe and suspend or curtail their use, our operating activities, financial position, cash flow and prospects could be materially adversely effected. Industry experts expect more drilling platforms to be decommissioned than installed in shallow waters of the Gulf of Mexico over the next 10 to 15 years, which would result in a systemic decline in the number of shallow water platforms that require flight services. If these market projections prove to be accurate, our domestic offshore operations will in the future be even more dependent than we are now on serving deepwater facilities in the Gulf of Mexico.. Moreover, any reduction in deepwater drilling activities could significantly impact our operations. As a result of the well-publicized sinking of the Deepwater Horizon rig in the Gulf of Mexico in April 2010, the U.S. Department of the Interior imposed a moratorium on deepwater drilling in the Gulf of Mexico from May through October 2010. The moratorium had a significant adverse impact on our business, particularly in the fourth quarter of 2010 and the first half of 2011. Any future accident or development that has a similar adverse impact on deepwater drilling in the Gulf of Mexico or other markets could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We depend on a small number of large customers for a significant portion of our revenues.. Our Oil and Gas segment derives a substantial portion of its operating revenues and income from a limited number of major and independent oil and gas companies. For the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 23% of our operating revenues were attributable to our two largest oil and gas customers and approximately 33% of our operating revenues were attributable collectively to our top five largest oil and gas customers. For the same period, over half of the operating revenues of HNZ's offshore business in Asia-Pacific was attributable to its two largest customers. We cannot assure you that these customers will continue to contract with us on terms or at rates currently in effect, or will not elect to contract with our competitors or perform their own transportation services themselves. The loss of one of our top customers, if not offset by revenues from new or other existing customers, would. 18. Table of Contents. have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. In addition, our concentration of customers within the oil and gas industry may impact our overall credit risk in that these entities may be similarly affected by changes in economic and other conditions.. Consolidation of our offshore customer base could adversely affect demand for our services and reduce our revenues.. Many of our Oil and Gas customers are international, major integrated or independent oil and gas exploration, development and production companies. In recent years, these companies have undergone substantial consolidation, and additional consolidation is possible. Consolidation results in fewer companies to charter or contract for our offshore services. In the event one of our customers combines with a company that is using services of one of our competitors, the combined company could decide to use the services of that competitor or another provider. Further, merger activity could impact exploration, development and production activity in other ways, particularly if the combined company adopts a combined exploration and development budget that is lower than the total budget of both companies before consolidation.. Our international operations are subject to political, economic and regulatory uncertainty.. Since 2011, we have conducted operations in certain foreign countries. Our international operations represented approximately 9% of our total operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017. As a result of our purchase of the HNZ Offshore Business on December 29, 2017, we currently expect the portion of our revenues derived from international operations will increase substantially in 2018. As of December 31, 2017, we operated or held over 30 aircraft outside of the United States, including nine in Australia, five in Trinidad and Tobago and four in Ghana.. Our international operations are subject to U.S. and other laws and regulations regarding operations in foreign jurisdictions in which we provide services. These numerous and sometimes conflicting laws and regulations include anti-corruption laws, anti-competition laws, anti-boycott laws, tax laws, immigration laws, privacy laws and accounting requirements. Regulations that require the awarding of contracts to local contractors or the employment of local citizens may adversely affect our competitiveness in these jurisdictions. Local laws and regulations, and their interpretation and enforcement, differ significantly among those jurisdictions, and can change significantly over time. The laws in certain jurisdictions are less settled and more subjective than U.S. laws. There is a risk that these laws or regulations may materially restrict our ability to deliver services in various foreign jurisdictions or could be breached through inadvertence or mistake, fraudulent or negligent behavior of our employees or agents, failure to comply with certain formal documentation or technical requirements, or otherwise. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us or our personnel, or prohibitions on the conduct of our business or our ability to operate in one or more countries, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects.. In addition to these international regulatory risks, some of the other risks inherent in conducting business internationally include:. • tax, licensing, political or other business restrictions or requirements, which may render it more difficult for us to obtain licenses to enter new markets or acceptable terms at all;. • problems collecting accounts receivable in a timely manner or at all;. • uncertainties concerning import and export restrictions, including the risk of fines or penalties assessed for violating export restrictions by the Office of Foreign Assets Controls of the U.S. Department of Treasury;. • embargoes or other restrictive governmental actions that could limit our ability to operate in foreign countries;. • additional U.S. and other regulation of non-domestic operations, including regulation under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the \"FCPA\"), as well as other applicable anti-corruption laws;. • economic, social and political instability, with the attendant risks of terrorism, kidnapping, extortion, civic unrest and potential seizure or nationalization of assets;. • currency and repatriation restrictions and fluctuations in currency exchange rates;. • the ability to secure and maintain the necessary physical infrastructure supporting operations;. • potential submission of disputes to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel;. • the inability to enforce our contract rights, either due to under-developed legal systems or government actions that result in a deprivation of contract rights;. • pandemics or epidemics that disrupt our ability to transport people, fly our aircraft or otherwise conduct operations;. • limitations in the availability, amount or terms of insurance coverage;. • laws, policies or practices that restrict with whom we can contract or otherwise limit the scope of operations that can legally or practicably be conducted within any particular country;. • the imposition of unanticipated or increased taxes, increased environmental and safety regulations or other forms of public or governmental regulation that increase our operating expenses; and. • challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations, including logistical and communication challenges and increased expenses associated with sourcing personnel and parts to remote locations.. 19. Table of Contents. Many of these risks are beyond our control, and we cannot predict the nature or the likelihood of the occurrence or corresponding effect of any such events, each of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our international affiliates transact business in various foreign currencies (primarily the Australian dollar and New Zealand dollar), and therefore we are subject to gains and losses due to fluctuations in those currencies.. By virtue of operating in many countries, we are subject to different and complex taxation laws, which often requires us to make subjective determinations and assumptions regarding the application of such laws to us, all of which increases the risk of potential disputes with taxing authorities.. We operate in certain international areas through foreign entities that we do not control, which subjects us to a variety of risks.. In order to legally operate or effectively compete in certain foreign jurisdictions, it is frequently necessary or required to establish joint ventures, strategic alliances or marketing arrangements with local operators, partners or agents. Frequently, we elect or are required by law to hold non-controlling investments in entities governed by foreign laws. As a result of not owning a majority interest in our unconsolidated affiliates, we do not have the ability to control their policies, management or operations, including the scope and quality of the services provided by these affiliates. Moreover, in certain instances, these local operators, partners or agents may have interests that are not always aligned with ours. Reliance on local operators, partners or agents could expose us to the risk of being held liable under the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws for actions taken by our strategic or local partners or agents even though these partners or agents may not themselves be subject to the FCPA or other applicable anti-corruption laws. Any determination that we have violated the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, reputation or prospects.. In certain foreign jurisdictions, we are subject to governmental regulation that limits foreign ownership of aircraft companies in favor of domestic ownership. Based on regulations in various markets in which we operate, our aircraft may be subject to deregistration and we may lose our ability to operate within these countries if certain levels of local ownership are not maintained. Any such actions could materially harm our ability to operate in such jurisdictions.. Regional instability in overseas markets could adversely affect business conditions and disrupt our operations.. At December 31, 2017, we operated in several foreign regions, including in four Asia-Pacific countries, the Caribbean Sea, the Mediterranean Sea and West Africa. Many of these areas have experienced political, economic and social uncertainties, and some suffer from high levels of corruption. Adjoining or nearby countries have experienced civil war, military campaigns, civil unrest, terrorist activities, political turbulence or other forms of unrest. Any of these forms of unrest in areas in which we operate could adversely impact our operations in several ways, including endangering the safety of our personnel in the region, interfering with our ability to transport parts or personnel to the region, disrupting our operations, increasing our operating costs, increasing our legal risk, and subjecting us to the risk of expropriation or other substantial changes in laws or regulations governing our overseas operations. Any of these could materially and adversely affect our overseas business or operations.. Our attempts to enter new international markets may not be successful.. To diversify our operations and maximize usage of our fleet, we periodically seek to enter new international markets, particularly to provide offshore services.  To enter new markets, we typically must obtain an operating license and develop new procedures, practices and logistics to accommodate the geographic, weather, competitive and regulatory conditions of the new market.  These efforts may be time consuming or costly, and may be opposed by incumbent operators.  Moreover, as noted above, we frequently must establish joint ventures or similar arrangements with local partners.  For all these reasons, we cannot assure you that our attempts to enter new international markets will succeed.. Our domestic pilot workforce is represented by a union, although we and the union do not have a current agreed upon collective bargaining agreement.. Our domestic pilots are represented by the Office and Professional Employees International Union (the \"OPEIU\"). We have not had a collective bargaining agreement with the OPEIU in several years, and bargaining was deferred for years during the pendency of OPEIU's suit against us, which was terminated in late 2013. In late 2017, we brought suit against OPEIU seeking clarification of our bargaining obligations to the OPEIU. At this time, we cannot predict the impact of future negotiations with the OPEIU, or when or whether a new agreement might be reached. If an agreement is reached, such agreement may cause us to incur additional expenses related to our employees, thereby reducing our profits and impacting our financial results negatively. Additionally, if an agreement is not reached and there are labor disputes, including strikes, our operations and flight services could suffer, thereby negatively impacting our financial results.. Approximately 100 of our Australian pilots and ground staff are represented by two unions pursuant to bargaining agreements that are scheduled to expire between February 27, 2018 and December 21, 2021. We are also a party to one other agreement. 20. Table of Contents. covering a limited number of our New Zealand pilots, which expires on September 21, 2019. We cannot assure you that these agreements will be extended in the future on terms acceptable to us or at all.. Our ability to attract and retain key personnel is critical to our future success, and, in certain instances, could be influenced by events beyond our control.. We are materially reliant on the skills, experience and performance of a limited number of senior officers. If we lose the services of key managers and cannot attract equally qualified replacement personnel, our business may be materially adversely affected.. Similarly, our ability to attract and retain qualified pilots, mechanics, technicians, nurses, paramedics, and other highly-trained personnel is an important factor in determining our future success. The market for these experienced and highly-trained personnel is competitive and may become more competitive. Several of our Air Medical operating bases are located in rural areas, which potentially increases the difficulty of locating qualified personnel. Many of our customers require pilots of aircraft that service them to have extremely high levels of flight experience. Accordingly, we cannot be assured that we will be successful in our efforts to attract and retain such personnel in the future. A limited supply of qualified applicants may contribute to wage increases that increase our operating costs.. A substantial portion of our helicopter pilots previously served in the U.S. military. Reductions in the pool of ex-military pilots, whether caused by retirements or other factors, will reduce the pool of pilots qualified to fly our helicopters. This could adversely impact our ability to provide services or increase the compensation necessary to attract and retain our pilots.. Moreover, several of our pilots are subject, under certain circumstances, to being called upon to provide additional military services or national guard services. If a substantial number of our pilots were called upon within a short period of time or during a time of pilot shortages, our operations could be disrupted or adversely affected.. Our business is subject to potential security breaches or other system failures.. As service providers, we rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, to bill our customers, to monitor the flights of our aircraft, to communicate with our pilots, employees, suppliers, customers and others, to manage or support a variety of our other business operations, transactions and processes, and to maintain various records, which may include personally identifiable information of customers, employees or other third parties. Additionally, this information may include medical information that is subject to and regulated by privacy laws, as described further in the risk factors referenced above.. System failures could materially disrupt our ability to conduct operations and security breaches could compromise the confidentiality of our data or our customer's data. We make significant efforts to maintain the integrity and continuity of our systems and to safeguard the security of these types of information, including maintaining contingency plans in the event of security breaches or other system failures. We cannot assure you that our security efforts and measures will prevent service disruptions, unauthorized access to our systems, loss or destruction of data, account takeovers, or other forms of cyber-attacks or similar events, whether caused by mechanical failures, human error, aging equipment or accidental technological failure.  These threats may also stem from fraud, malice or sabotage on the part of employees, third parties or foreign nations, including attempts by outside parties to fraudulently induce our employees or customers to disclose or grant access to our data or our customers' data, potentially including information subject to stringent domestic and foreign data protection laws governing personally identifiable information, protected health information or other similar types of sensitive data. Each of these risks could further intensify to the extent we maintain information in digital form stored on servers connected to the Internet.  The frequency, scope and sophistication of cyber-attacks continue to grow, which increases the possibility that our security measures will be unable to prevent our systems' improper functioning or the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information (including medical information). Any failure of our information or communications systems, whether caused by attacks, mechanical failures, natural disasters or otherwise, could interrupt our operations, damage our reputation, or subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties, any of which could materially and adversely affect us. Although we maintain insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions (including self-insured deductibles, coverage restrictions and monetary coverage caps), cover certain aspects of our cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be unavailable or insufficient to cover our losses.. Our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer is also one of our principal shareholders and has voting control of the Company.. As of December 31, 2017, Al A. Gonsoulin, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned stock representing nearly 71% of the total voting power of our capital stock. As a result, he exercises control over the election of all of our directors and the outcome of all matters requiring a shareholder vote. This ownership also may delay or prevent a change in our management or a change in control of us, even if such changes would benefit our other shareholders and were supported by a majority of our shareholders.. 21. Table of Contents. As a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the NASDAQ rules, we qualify for exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements designed to protect investors.. As a result of Mr. Gonsoulin's controlling interest, we are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of NASDAQ. As a \"controlled company,\" we may elect to forgo compliance with certain corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that we (i) maintain a board of directors comprised of a majority of independent directors, (ii) maintain a compensation committee comprised entirely of independent directors, and (iii) authorize independent directors to select or recommend our director nominees.. Currently, outside directors are not overseeing our director nomination process. Although currently we voluntarily maintain a board comprised of a majority of independent directors and a compensation committee composed entirely of independent directors, we cannot assure you that this will continue to be the case in the future. Accordingly, you may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of NASDAQ.. Future investments, acquisitions or business expansions by us would subject us to additional business, operating and financial risks, the impact of which cannot presently be evaluated, and could adversely impact our capital structure or financial position.. In an effort to implement our business strategies, we may from time to time in the future pursue acquisition or expansion opportunities, including strategic investments. These transactions could involve acquisitions of entire businesses or investments in start-up or established companies, and could take several forms, including mergers, joint ventures, or the purchase of equity interests or assets. These types of transactions may present significant risks and uncertainties, including the difficulty of identifying appropriate companies to acquire or invest in on acceptable terms, distraction of management from current operations, insufficient revenue acquired to offset liabilities assumed, unexpected expenses, inadequate return of capital, regulatory or compliance issues, potential violations of covenants in our debt instruments and other unidentified issues not discovered in due diligence. To the extent we acquire part or all of a business that is financially unstable or is otherwise subject to a high level of risk, we may be affected by currently unascertainable risks of that business. Accordingly, there is no current basis for you to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the particular business or assets that we may acquire. Moreover, we cannot guarantee that any such transaction will ultimately result in the realization of the benefits of the transaction originally anticipated by us or that any such transaction will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. In particular, we can provide no assurances that we will be able to successfully integrate the flight and safety protocols, maintenance procedures, technology systems, billing systems, accounting processes, controls, policies, strategies and culture of the acquired company with ours. In addition, the financing of any future acquisition completed by us could adversely impact our capital structure as any such financing would likely include the issuance of additional securities or the borrowing of additional funds. Except as required by law or applicable securities exchange listing standards, we do not expect to ask our shareholders to vote on any proposed acquisition. Moreover, we generally do not announce our acquisitions until we have entered into a preliminary or definitive agreement.. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and by-laws and Louisiana law make it more difficult to effect a change in control of us, which could discourage a takeover of our company and adversely affect the price of our common stock.. Although an attempted hostile takeover of our company is unlikely by virtue of our Chief Executive Officer's controlling voting interest, there are also provisions in our articles of incorporation and by-laws that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would result in the purchase of our company's securities at a premium to the market price or would otherwise be beneficial to you. For example, our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval and our by-laws give the board the exclusive right to fill all board vacancies. For a complete understanding of our articles and by-laws, you should read them in their entirety.. Our articles of incorporation limit the ownership of voting securities by persons who are not U.S. citizens, which could have certain adverse effects.. We must comply with certain securities ownership requirements in order to assure that we will be permitted to hold operating certificates issued by the FAA pursuant to regulations promulgated under the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended. Failure to comply with these requirements could jeopardize our continued ability to hold FAA operating certificates. To assure such compliance, our articles of incorporation (our \"Articles\") include certain provisions designed to enable us to regulate the ownership of our capital stock by persons who are not citizens of the United States.. Our Articles provide that if at any time the voting interest of Non-Citizen Owned Shares (as defined in our Articles) exceeds the Permitted Percentage (as defined in our Articles, and which such percentage is currently 24%), then (i) the voting power otherwise attributable to each Non-Citizen Owned Share will be immediately and automatically reduced on a pro rata basis in the manner prescribed therein without any further action by us so that the maximum number of votes that may be cast by the holders of all Non-Citizen Owned Shares shall equal the Permitted Percentage and (ii) the total voting power of any affected class or series of voting securities will also be immediately and automatically reduced without any further action by us to give effect to such above-described change.. 22. Table of Contents. These foreign ownership restrictions could adversely impact the trading liquidity or market value of our common stock by reducing our pool of potential shareholders. In addition, if we were to seek to sell any portion of our business that requires holding an FAA operating certificate, we would have fewer potential purchasers, since some potential purchasers might be unable or unwilling to satisfy the foreign ownership restrictions described above. As a result, the sales price for that portion of our business may not attain the amount that could be obtained in an unregulated market.. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to reduce future tax payments may be limited if we experience an ownership change.. As described in Note 9  -  Income Taxes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report, we have substantial net operating loss carryforwards (\"NOLs\") available to offset future taxable income. Our ability to use our federal NOLs could be substantially limited if we were to experience an \"ownership change\" as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (\"IRC\"). Generally, an ownership change occurs when the percentage of a corporation's stock (by value) owned by all of the corporation's 5% shareholders (as determined pursuant to the IRC), as a group, has increased by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of stock (by value) owned by the 5% shareholders, as a group, at any time during the past three years. A corporation must test to determine whether it has had an ownership change on any date that a 5% shareholder acquires stock. Changes in ownership of our stock are generally not within our control. If an ownership change were to occur, the use of our federal NOLs would be subject to an annual limit, generally equal to the value of the company multiplied by the long-term tax exempt rate, which could substantially limit our ability to use the NOLs each year and could result in NOLs expiring unused. Use of our state NOLs may also be limited by an ownership change.. Adoption of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will have a substantial impact on us.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") was enacted which significantly reformed the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (the \"Code\"). The Tax Act, among other things, includes changes to U.S. federal tax rates, imposes significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest, allows for the expensing of capital expenditures,  migrates the Code from a \"worldwide\" system of taxation to a territorial system and modifies or repeals many business deductions and credits. Although we have provisionally recognized some of the effects of the Tax Act, we continue to examine the impact the Tax Act may have on our business. We will also evaluate the effect of the Tax Act on our projection of future cash taxes and our deferred tax assets and liabilities. The estimated impact of the Tax Act is based on our management's current knowledge and assumptions and recognized impacts could be materially different from current estimates based on our actual results and our further analysis of the new law. See Note 9.. Tax audits or changes in tax laws could adversely affect us.. Like all large businesses, we are subject to frequent and regular audits by the Internal Revenue Service as well as state and local tax authorities. These audits could subject us to tax liabilities if adverse positions are taken by these tax authorities. We believe that we have adequately provided for tax contingencies. However, our tax audits and examinations may result in tax liabilities that differ materially from those that we have recognized in our consolidated financial statements. Because the ultimate outcomes of all of these matters are uncertain, we can give no assurance as to whether an adverse result from one or more of them will have a material effect on our financial results."
