[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Technology failures or cyber security breaches could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. We rely on information technology systems to process, transmit, store, and protect electronic information. For example, a significant portion of the communications between our personnel, customers, and suppliers depends on information technology. Our information technology systems may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions due to events beyond our control, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hackers, and other security issues. We have technology and information security processes and disaster recovery plans in place to mitigate our risks to these vulnerabilities. However, these measures may not be adequate to ensure that our operations will not be disrupted, should such an event occur.. 6. Our dependency on the microelectronics industry, which as a whole is volatile, could have a negative material impact on our business.. We sell substantially all of our photomasks to semiconductor or flat panel display designers, manufacturers and foundries, as well as to other high performance electronics manufacturers. We believe that the demand for photomasks depends primarily on design activity rather than sales volume from products using photomask technologies. Consequently, an increase in semiconductor or FPD sales does not necessarily result in a corresponding increase in photomask sales. In addition, the reduced use of customized ICs, a reduction in design complexity, other changes in the technology or methods of manufacturing or designing semiconductors or FPDs, or a slowdown in the introduction of new semiconductor or FPD designs could reduce demand for photomasks  -  even if the demand for semiconductors and FPDs increases. Historically, the semiconductor industry has been volatile, with sharp periodic downturns and slowdowns. These downturns have been characterized by, among other things, diminished product demand, excess production capacity and accelerated erosion of selling prices.. We may, in the future, incur net losses.. Although we have been profitable since fiscal 2010, we have, in the past, incurred net losses. The net losses experienced in prior years were due, in part, to macroeconomic factors, which resulted in our incurring significant charges for restructurings and impairments of long-lived assets. We cannot provide assurance that we will not incur net losses in the future.. We have a high level of fixed costs; thus we must achieve minimum sales volumes sufficient to cover our fixed costs.. As a consequence of the capital-intensive nature of the photomask manufacturing business, we have a high level of fixed costs and a high degree of operating leverage. Accordingly, should our sales volumes decline as a result of a decrease in design releases from our customers or for any other reason, we may have excess or underutilized production capacity which could significantly impact our operating margins or result in write-offs from asset impairments.. Our quarterly operating results fluctuate significantly and may continue to do so in the future.. We have experienced fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, and we anticipate that such fluctuations will continue and could intensify in the future. Fluctuations in operating results may result in volatility in the prices of our common stock and financial instruments linked to its value. Operating results may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including the size and timing of orders and shipments, the loss of significant customers, changes in product mix, the flow of customer design releases, technological change, fluctuations in manufacturing yields, competition and general economic conditions. We operate in a high fixed-cost environment and, should our revenues and asset utilization decrease, our operating margins could be negatively impacted.. Our customers generally order photomasks on an as-needed basis, and our revenue in any quarter is dependent on orders received during that quarter. Since we operate with little backlog, and the rate of new orders may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter, our capital expenditures and, to some extent, expense levels are based primarily on sales forecasts and technological advancements in photomask manufacturing equipment. Consequently, if anticipated revenues in any quarter do not occur when expected, capital expenditures could be higher than needed, resulting in underutilized capacity and disproportionately high expense levels, causing operating results to be adversely affected. Due to the foregoing factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results cannot be relied upon as indicators of future performance. In addition, in future quarters, our operating results could be below guidance we may provide as well as the expectations of public market analysts and investors which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. 7. The photomask industry is subject to rapid technological change, and we might fail to remain competitive, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. The photomask industry has been, and is expected to continue to be, characterized by technological change and evolving industry standards. In order to remain competitive, we will be required to continually anticipate, respond to and utilize changing technologies of increasing complexity in both traditional and emerging markets that we serve. In particular, we believe that, as semiconductor geometries continue to become smaller and FPDs become larger or otherwise more advanced, we will be required to manufacture increasingly complex photomasks. Additionally, the demand for photomasks has been, and could in the future be, adversely affected by changes in semiconductor and high-performance electronics fabrication methods that affect the type or quantity of photomasks utilized, such as changes in semiconductor demand that favor field. -. programmable gate arrays and other semiconductor designs that replace application-specific ICs. Furthermore, evidence of the viability and the corresponding market acceptance of alternative methods of transferring IC designs onto semiconductor wafers could reduce or eliminate the need for photomasks in the production of semiconductors. As of the end of fiscal 2017, one alternative method, direct-write lithography, has not been proven to be a commercially viable alternative to photomasks, as it is considered to be too slow for high volume semiconductor wafer production. However, should direct-write or any other alternative method of transferring IC or FPD designs without the use of photomasks achieve market acceptance, and if we are unable to anticipate, respond to or utilize these or other technological changes, due to resource, technological or other constraints, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Our operations will continue to require substantial capital expenditures, for which we may be unable to obtain funding.. The manufacture of photomasks requires us to make substantial investments in high-end manufacturing capability. We expect that we will be required to continue to make substantial capital expenditures to meet the technological demands of our customers and to position us for future growth. Our capital expenditure payments for fiscal 2018 are expected to be approximately $250 million, of which $3 million was included in accounts payable on our October 29, 2017, consolidated balance sheet. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain the additional capital required to fund our operations on reasonable terms, if at all, or that any such inability will not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We have been dependent on sales to a limited number of large customers; the loss of any of these customers or a significant reduction in orders from these customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations.. Historically, we have sold a significant proportion of photomasks to a limited number of IC and FPD manufacturers. During fiscal years 2017, 2016 and 2015 our two largest customers accounted for 32%, 36% and 33%, respectively, of our revenue. Our five largest customers accounted for 43%, 50% and 52% of our revenue in fiscal years 2017, 2016 and 2015 respectively. The loss of a significant customer or a significant reduction or delay in orders from any significant customer, (including reductions or delays due to customer departures from recent buying patterns), or an unfavorable change in competitive conditions in the semiconductor or FPD industries, could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and business prospects. The consolidation of semiconductor manufacturers or an economic downturn in the semiconductor industry may increase the likelihood of losing a significant customer and could also have an adverse effect on our financial performance and business prospects.. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for equipment and raw materials. ,. and, if those suppliers do not deliver their products to us, we may be unable to fulfill orders from our customers, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We rely on a limited number of photomask equipment manufacturers to develop and supply the equipment we use. These equipment manufacturers currently require lead times of up to twelve months or longer between the order and the delivery of certain photomask imaging and inspection equipment. The failure of such manufacturers to develop or deliver such equipment on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, the manufacturing equipment necessary to produce advanced photomasks could become prohibitively expensive, which could similarly affect us.. We use high precision quartz photomask blanks, pellicles, and electronic grade chemicals in our manufacturing processes. There are a limited number of suppliers of these raw materials and we have no long-term contracts with these suppliers. Any delays or quality problems in connection with significant raw materials, particularly photomask blanks, could cause delays in the shipments of photomasks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The fluctuation of foreign currency exchange rates, with respect to prices of equipment and raw materials used in manufacturing, could also have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. 8. We face risks associated with the use of sophisticated equipment and complex manufacturing processes and technologies. Our inability to effectively utilize such equipment and technologies and perform such processes could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Our complex manufacturing processes require the use of expensive and technologically sophisticated equipment and materials, and are continually modified in an effort to improve manufacturing yields and product quality. Minute impurities, defects or other difficulties in the manufacturing process can lower manufacturing yields and make products unmarketable. Moreover, the manufacture of leading-edge photomasks is more complex and time consuming than manufacturing less advanced photomasks, and their fabrication may result in delays in the manufacture of all levels of photomasks. We have, on occasion, experienced manufacturing difficulties and capacity limitations that have delayed our ability to deliver products within the time frames contracted for by our customers. We cannot provide assurance that, under such circumstances, we will not experience these or other manufacturing difficulties, or be subject to increased costs or production capacity constraints in the future, any of which could result in a loss of customers or could otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We could be subject to damages based on claims brought against us by our customers or lose customers as a result of the failure of our products to meet certain quality specifications.. Our products provide important performance attributes to our customers' products. If a product fails to perform in a manner consistent with quality specifications, or has a shorter useful life than warranted, a customer could seek replacement of the product or damages for costs incurred as a result of the product failing to perform, particularly if such products are sold under agreements that contain limited performance and life cycle warrantees. Our customers often require us to represent that our products conform to certain product specifications that they provide. Any failure to comply with such specifications could result in claims or legal action. A successful claim or series of claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could result in a loss of one or more customers.. Our debt agreements limit our ability to obtain additional financing and may obligate us to repay debt before its maturity.. Financial covenants related to our credit facility, which expires in December 2018, include a Total Leverage Ratio, a Minimum Interest Coverage Ratio, and Minimum Unrestricted Cash Balances. Existing covenant restrictions limit our ability to obtain additional debt financing and, should we be unable to meet one or more of these covenants, our lenders may require us to repay any outstanding balance prior to the expiration date of the agreements. Our ability to comply with the financial and other covenants in our debt agreements may be affected by worsening economic or business conditions, or other events. We cannot assure that, under such circumstances, additional sources of financing would be available to pay off any long-term borrowings, so as to avoid default.  Should we default on certain of our long-term borrowings, a cross default would occur on other long-term borrowings, unless amended or waived.. Joint ventures may not operate according to their business plans if our partners fail to fulfill their obligations, which may adversely affect our results of operations and may force us to dedicate additional resources to these joint ventures.. The nature of a joint venture requires us to share control in certain areas with unaffiliated third parties. If our joint venture partners do not fulfill their obligations, the affected joint venture may not be able to operate according to its business plan. In that case, our results of operations may be adversely affected and we may be required to increase the level of our commitment to the joint venture. Also, differences in views among joint venture participants may result in delayed decisions or failures to agree on major issues. If these differences cause the joint ventures to deviate from their business plans, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. 9. We may not be able to consummate future acquisitions or integrate acquisitions into our business, which could result in unanticipated expenses and losses.. As part of our business growth strategy, we have acquired businesses and entered into joint ventures in the past, and we may pursue acquisitions and joint venture opportunities in the future. Our ability to implement this component of our growth strategy will be limited by our ability to identify appropriate acquisition or joint venture candidates and our financial resources, including our available cash and borrowing capacity. The expense incurred in consummating acquisitions or entering into joint ventures, the time it takes to integrate an acquisition, or our failure to integrate businesses successfully, could result in unanticipated expenses and losses. Furthermore, we may not be able to realize any of the anticipated benefits from acquisitions or joint ventures.. The process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties, and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. Some of the risks associated with the integration of acquisitions include: potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; unforeseen claims and liabilities, including unexpected environmental exposures; unforeseen adjustments, taxes, charges and write-offs; problems enforcing the indemnification obligations of sellers of businesses or joint venture partners for claims and liabilities; unexpected losses of customers of, or suppliers to, the acquired business; difficulty in conforming the acquired businesses' standards, processes, procedures and controls with our operations; variability in financial information arising from the implementation of purchase price accounting; inability to coordinate new product and process development; loss of senior managers and other critical personnel and problems with new labor unions; and challenges arising from the increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations.. Our announced expansions into China entail substantial risks.. During the last two years we have announced plans to expand our manufacturing operations into China, see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on these expansion plans. These investments are subject to substantial risks which may include, but are not limited to: delays in or the inability to obtain necessary permits that are needed to enable us to construct our facilities or conduct our ongoing business; the inability to protect our intellectual property rights under Chinese law, which may not offer as high of a level of protection as U.S. law; unexpectedly long negotiation periods with Chinese suppliers and customers; quality issues related to materials sourced from local vendors; unexpectedly high labor costs due to a tight labor supply; and difficulty in repatriating funds and selling or transferring assets. Our investments in China also expose us to a significant additional foreign currency exchange risk, which we have not been subject to in recent years. These and other risks may result in our not realizing a return on, or losing some, or all, of our planned investments in China, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and financial performance.. Our cash flows from operations and current holdings of cash may not be adequate for our current and long-term needs.. Our liquidity, as we operate in a high fixed cost environment, is highly dependent on our revenue volume and the timing of our capital expenditures, which can vary significantly from period to period. Depending on conditions in the semiconductor and FPD markets, our cash flows from operations and current holdings of cash may not be adequate to meet our current and long-term needs for capital expenditures, operations and debt repayments. Historically, in certain years, we have used external financing to fund these needs. Due to conditions in the credit markets and covenant restrictions on our existing debt, some financing instruments used by us in the past may not be available. Therefore, we cannot provide assurance that additional sources of financing would be available to us on commercially favorable terms, if at all, should our cash requirements exceed our existing cash and cash available under our credit facility.. We may incur unforeseen charges related to possible future facility closures or restructurings.. We cannot provide assurance that there will not be facility closures or restructurings in the near or long-term, nor can we assure that we will not incur significant charges should there be any future facility closures or restructurings.. 10. We operate in a highly competitive environment, and, should we be unable to meet our customers' requirements for product quality, timeliness of delivery or technical capabilities, our revenue could be adversely affected.. The photomask industry is highly competitive, and most of our customers utilize more than one photomask supplier. Our competitors include Compugraphics International, Ltd., DNP (outside of Taiwan), Hoya Corporation, SK-Electronics Co., Ltd., Taiwan Mask Corporation and Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. We also compete with semiconductor manufacturers' captive photomask manufacturing operations, some of which market their photomask manufacturing services to outside customers. We expect to face continued competition from these and other suppliers in the future. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, sales, marketing or other resources than us. Also, when producing smaller geometry photomasks, some of our competitors may be able to more rapidly develop, produce, and achieve higher manufacturing yields than us. We believe that consistency of product quality and timeliness of delivery, as well as price, technical capability, and service are the principal factors considered by customers when selecting their photomask suppliers. Our inability to meet these competitive requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In the past, competition has led to pressure to reduce prices and the need to invest in advanced manufacturing technology, which, we believe, contributed to the decrease in the number of independent photomask suppliers. These pressures may continue in the future.. Our substantial non-US operations are subject to additional risks.. Revenues from our non-U.S. operations were approximately 77%, 76% and 75% of our total revenues in fiscal years 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We believe that maintaining significant international operations requires us to have, among other things, a local presence in the geographic markets that we supply. This requires significant investments in financial, managerial, operational, and other resources. Since 1996, we have significantly expanded our operations in international markets by acquiring existing businesses in Europe, acquiring majority equity interests in photomask manufacturing operations in Korea and Taiwan and building a manufacturing facility for FPD photomasks in Taiwan. Additionally, since 2016, we have announced plans to expand our manufacturing operations into China, see Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on these expansion plans.  In order to enable us to optimize our investments and other resources, we closely monitor the semiconductor and FPD manufacturing markets for indications of geographic movement and, in conjunction with these efforts, continue to assess the locations of our manufacturing facilities. These assessments may result in the opening or closing of facilities.. Operations outside of the United States are subject to inherent risks, including fluctuations in exchange rates, unstable political and economic conditions in various countries, changes in economic alliances, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations may be burdensome, compliance with anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws (such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act) as well as anti-money-laundering laws may be costly, tariffs and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, longer accounts receivable payment cycles, foreign countries may adopt other restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including currency exchange controls, trade sanctions could result in losing access to customers and suppliers in those countries, agreements may be difficult to enforce and receivables difficult to collect and potentially adverse tax consequences. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues outside of the United States and, consequently, on our business and results of operations.. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) and are reported in U.S. dollars. Our operations have transactions and balances denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, primarily the Korean won, New Taiwan dollar, Japanese yen, euro, Singapore dollar, and the pound sterling. As a result of commencing construction of two new facilities in China, we now also have transactions and balances denominated in the Chinese renminbi. In fiscal year 2017, we recorded a net loss from changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $5.2 million in our statement of income, while our net assets were increased by $19.7 million as a result of the translation of foreign currency financial statements to U.S. dollars. Significant foreign currency fluctuations may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. Our business depends on managerial and technical personnel, who are in great demand, and our inability to attract and retain qualified employees could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our success depends, in part, upon key managerial and technical personnel, as well as our ability to continue to attract and retain additional qualified personnel. The loss of certain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we can retain our key managerial, and technical employees, or that we can attract similar additional employees in the future.. 11. We may be unable to enforce or defend our ownership and use of proprietary technology, and the utilization of unprotected company developed technology by our competitors could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position.. We believe that the success of our business depends more on proprietary technology, information and processes, and know-how than on our patents or trademarks. Much of our proprietary information and technology related to manufacturing processes is not patented and may not be patentable. We cannot offer assurance that:.   we will be able to adequately protect our technology;.   competitors will not independently develop similar technology; or.   international intellectual property laws will adequately protect our intellectual property rights.. We may become the subject of infringement claims or legal proceedings by third parties with respect to current or future products or processes. Any such claims, with or without merit, or litigation to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights that require us to defend against claimed infringements of the rights of others, could result in substantial costs, diversion of resources, and product shipment delays or could force us to enter into royalty or license agreements, rather than dispute the merits of these claims. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position.. We may be unprepared for changes to environmental laws and regulations and may incur liabilities arising from environmental matters.. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that impose various environmental controls on, among other things, the discharge of pollutants into the air and water and the handling, use, storage, disposal and clean-up of solid and hazardous wastes. Changes in these laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations, and inadequate compliance with their requirements could give rise to significant liabilities.. If we violate environmental, health and safety laws or regulations, in addition to being required to correct such violations, we can be held liable in administrative, civil or criminal proceedings, and substantial fines and other sanctions could be imposed that could disrupt or limit our operations. Liabilities associated with the investigation and cleanup of hazardous substances, as well as personal injury, property damages or natural resource damages arising from the release of, or exposure to, such hazardous substances, may be imposed in many situations without regard to violations of laws or regulations or other fault, and may also be imposed jointly and severally (so that a responsible party may be held liable for more than its share of the losses involved, or even the entire loss). Such liabilities may also be imposed on many different entities with a relationship to the hazardous substances at issue, including, for example, entities that formerly owned or operated the property affected by the hazardous substances and entities that arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances at the affected property, as well as entities that currently own or operate such property. The nature of our business, including historical operations at our current and former facilities, exposes us to risks of liability under these laws and regulations due to the production, storage, use, transportation and sale of materials that can cause contamination or personal injury if released into the environment. Additional information may arise in the future concerning the nature or extent of our liability with respect to identified sites and additional sites that may be identified for which we are alleged to be liable.. Our production facilities could be damaged or disrupted by natural disasters or labor strikes, either of which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. A major catastrophe, such as an earthquake or other natural disaster, labor strike, or work stoppage at any of our manufacturing facilities, or a manufacturing facility of our suppliers or customers, could result in a prolonged interruption of our business. A disruption resulting from any one of these events could cause significant delays in shipments of our products and the loss of revenue and customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Our facilities in Taiwan are located in a seismically active area.. 12. Our sales can be impacted by the health and stability of the general economy, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.. Unfavorable general economic conditions in the U.S. or other countries in which we or our customers conduct business may have the effect of reducing the demand for photomasks. Economic downturns may lead to a decrease in demand for end products whose manufacturing processes involve the use of photomasks, which may result in a reduction in new product design and development by semiconductor or FPD manufacturers and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.. Additional taxes could adversely affect our financial results.. Our tax filings are subject to audits by tax authorities in the various jurisdictions in which we do business. These audits may result in assessments of additional taxes that are subsequently resolved with the taxing authorities or through the courts. Currently, we believe there are no outstanding assessments whose resolution would result in a material adverse financial result. However, we cannot offer assurances that unasserted or potential future assessments would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. Our financial results may be adversely impacted by proposed legislative tax reform.. Various U.S. corporate tax reform bills and other proposals have been, or are currently, under consideration by Congress and the. Executive branch.. These proposals include, among other items, corporate income tax rate changes in varying, uncertain or unspecified amounts; the modification or elimination of certain tax incentives and changes to the existing rules and regulations for taxing overseas earnings (including possible modifications to the current rules and regulations for repatriating such earnings); and measures to prevent base erosion and profit splitting (\"BEPS\"). It is not clear whether these proposals, if enacted, would materially affect the taxation of our domestic and foreign earnings.. In addition to the U.S. tax proposals, corporate tax reform proposals are under consideration in Taiwan and Korea including, among other items, corporate income tax rate changes, the modification or elimination of certain tax incentives, changes in unremitted earnings tax rates and modification of the related rules, and measures to prevent BEPS.  Enactment of such changes could materially affect the tax treatment of our foreign subsidiaries' earnings and their statutory deferred tax assets and liabilities.. Our business could be adversely impacted by global or regional catastrophic events.. Our business could be adversely affected by terrorist acts, major natural disasters, widespread outbreaks of infectious diseases, or the outbreak or escalation of wars, especially in the Asian markets, where we generate a significant portion of our sales, and in Japan where we purchase raw materials and capital equipment. Such events in the geographic regions in which we do business, including escalations of political tensions and military operations within the Korean Peninsula, where a significant portion of our foreign operations are located, could have material adverse impacts on our revenue, cost and availability of raw materials, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not generate sufficient cash flows from our operations to pay our indebtedness.. Our ability to make scheduled payments of debt principal and interest, or to refinance our indebtedness, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not continue to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to both service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flows, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness would depend upon the conditions in the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations.. Our hedging activity could negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows.. We may enter into derivatives to manage our exposure to interest rate and currency movements. If we do not accurately forecast our results of operations, execute contracts that do not effectively mitigate our economic exposure to interest rates and currency rates, elect to not apply hedge accounting, or fail to comply with the complex accounting requirements for hedging, our results of operations and cash flows could be volatile, as well as negatively impacted.. The market price of the Company's common stock is subject to volatility and could fluctuate widely in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control.. Factors that may influence the price of the common stock include, without limitation, the following:.   loss of any of our key customers or suppliers;.   additions or departures of key personnel;.   sales of common stock;.   our ability to execute our business plan, including but not limited to, our plans to expand into China;.   announcements and consummations of business acquisitions;.   operating results that fall below expectations;.   additional issuances of common stock;. 13.   intellectual property disputes;.   industry developments;.   news or disclosures by competitors;.   business combinations, divestitures or bankruptcies by customers, suppliers or competitors;.   economic and other external factors; and.   period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results.. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of the Company's common stock.  One should also be aware that price volatility might be worse if the trading volume of shares of the common stock is low.. Ineffective internal controls could impact the Company's business and operating results.. The Company's internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If the Company fails to maintain the adequacy of its internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if the Company experiences difficulties in their implementation, the Company's business and operating results could be harmed, and the Company could fail to meet its financial reporting obligations."
