[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, operations, industry or financial position or our future financial performance. While we believe we have identified and discussed below all risk factors affecting our business that we believe are material, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our business, operations, industry, financial position and financial performance in the future.. Industry cyclicality can affect our earnings, especially due to fluctuations in commodity prices of feed ingredients and chicken.. Profitability in the chicken industry is materially affected by the commodity prices of feed ingredients and market prices of chicken, which are determined by supply and demand factors. As a result, the chicken industry is subject to cyclical earnings fluctuations.. The price of feed ingredients is positively or negatively affected primarily by the global level of supply inventories and demand for feed ingredients, the agricultural policies of the U.S. and foreign governments and weather patterns throughout the world. In particular, weather patterns often change agricultural conditions in an unpredictable manner. A significant change in weather patterns could affect supplies of feed ingredients, as well as both the industry's and our ability to obtain feed ingredients, grow chickens or deliver products. More recently, feed prices have been impacted by increased demand both domestically for ethanol and globally for protein production, as well as grain production levels outside the U.S. We have recently benefited from low market prices for feed ingredients, but market prices for feed ingredients remain volatile. Consequently, there can be no assurance that the price of corn or soybean meal will not continue to rise as a result of, among other things, increasing demand for these products around the world and alternative uses of these products, such as ethanol and biodiesel production.. Volatility in feed ingredient prices has had, and may continue to have, a materially adverse effect on our operating results, which has resulted in, and may continue to result in, additional noncash expenses due to impairment of the carrying amounts of certain of our assets. We periodically seek, to the extent available, to enter into advance purchase commitments or financial derivative contracts for the purchase of feed ingredients in an effort to manage our feed ingredient costs. The use of these instruments may not be successful. In addition, we have not designated the derivative financial instruments that we have purchased to mitigate commodity purchase exposures as cash flow hedges. Therefore, we recognize changes in the fair value of these derivative financial instruments immediately in earnings. Unexpected changes in the fair value of these instruments could adversely affect the results of our operations. Although we have sought to mitigate the impact of feed price volatility on our profitability by decreasing the amount of our products that are sold under longer term fixed price contracts, these changes will not eliminate the impact of changes in feed ingredient prices on our profitability and would prevent us from profiting on such contracts during times of declining market prices of chicken.. Outbreaks of livestock diseases in general and poultry diseases in particular, including avian influenza, can significantly affect our ability to conduct our operations and demand for our products.. We take precautions designed to ensure that our flocks are healthy and that our processing plants and other facilities operate in a sanitary and environmentally-sound manner. However, events beyond our control, such as the outbreaks of disease, either in our own flocks or elsewhere, could significantly affect demand for our products or our ability to conduct our operations.. 11. Table of Contents. Furthermore, an outbreak of disease could result in governmental restrictions on the import and export of our fresh chicken or other products to or from our suppliers, facilities or customers, or require us to destroy one or more of our flocks. This could also result in the cancellation of orders by our customers and create adverse publicity that may have a material adverse effect on our ability to market our products successfully and on our business, reputation and prospects.. For example, there was substantial publicity in 2015 regarding highly pathogenic avian influenza (\"HPAI\") H5 in the Pacific, Central, and Mississippi flyways (or migratory bird paths) of North America. The disease was found in wild birds, as well as in a few backyard and commercial poultry flocks. The CDC considers the risk to people from these HPAI H5 infections to be low. No human cases of these HPAI H5 viruses have been detected. In its response effort, the USDA coordinated closely with state officials in affected and bordering states and other federal departments on avian influenza surveillance, reporting and control efforts. The USDA also coordinated with Canada on the HPAI H5 findings that were close to the northern U.S. border. Furthermore, there was substantial publicity in 2012 and 2013 regarding a highly pathogenic strain of avian influenza, known as H7N3, which affected several states in central Mexico. There was also substantial publicity in 2013 regarding a low pathogenic strain of avian influenza, known as H7N9, which affected eastern and northern China in and around the cities of Shanghai and Beijing.. There have been outbreaks of other low pathogenic strains of avian influenza in the U.S., and in Mexico outbreaks of both high and low-pathogenic strains of avian influenza are a fairly common occurrence. Historically, the outbreaks of low pathogenic strains of avian influenza have not generated the same level of concern, or received the same level of publicity or been accompanied by the same reduction in demand for poultry products in certain countries as that associated with highly pathogenic strains such as HPAI H5 and H7N3 or highly infectious strains such as H7N9. Even if no further highly pathogenic or highly contagious strains of avian influenza are confirmed in the U.S., the U.K. and Europe or Mexico, there can be no assurance that outbreaks of these strains in other countries will not materially adversely affect demand for U.S.-produced poultry internationally and/or U.S.-produced, the U.K. and Europe produced or Mexico-produced poultry domestically, and, if any of these strains were to spread to either the U.S., the U.K. and Europe or Mexico, there can be no assurance that it would not significantly affect our ability to conduct our operations and/or demand for our products, in each case in a manner having a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and/or prospects.. If our poultry products become contaminated, we may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls.. Poultry products may be subject to contamination by disease-producing organisms, or pathogens, such as Listeria monocytogenes, Salmonella and generic E.coli. These pathogens are generally found in the environment, and, as a result, there is a risk that, as a result of food processing, they could be present in our processed poultry products. These pathogens can also be introduced as a result of improper handling at the further processing, foodservice or consumer level. These risks may be controlled, although not eliminated, by adherence to good manufacturing practices and finished product testing. We have little, if any, control over proper handling once the product has been shipped. Illness and death may result if the pathogens are not eliminated at the further processing, foodservice or consumer level. Even an inadvertent shipment of contaminated products is a violation of law and may lead to increased risk of exposure to product liability claims, product recalls and increased scrutiny by federal and state regulatory agencies and may have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and prospects.. Product liability claims or product recalls can adversely affect our business reputation, expose us to increased scrutiny by federal and state regulators and may not be fully covered by insurance.. The packaging, marketing and distribution of food products entail an inherent risk of product liability and product recall and the resultant adverse publicity. We may be subject to significant liability if the consumption of any of our products causes injury, illness or death. We could be required to recall certain products in the event of contamination or damage to the products. In addition to the risks of product liability or product recall due to deficiencies caused by our production or processing operations, we may encounter the same risks if any third party tampers with our products. We cannot assure you that we will not be required to perform product recalls, or that product liability claims will not be asserted against us, in the future. Any claims that may be made may create adverse publicity that would have a material adverse effect on our ability to market our products successfully or on our business, reputation, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. If our poultry products become contaminated, we may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls. There can be no assurance that any litigation or reputational injury associated with product recalls will not have a material adverse effect on our ability to market our products successfully or on our business, reputation, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. We currently maintain insurance with respect to certain of these risks, including product liability insurance, business interruption insurance and general liability insurance, but in many cases such insurance is expensive, difficult to obtain and no assurance can be given that such insurance can be maintained in the future on acceptable terms, or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to any such events, or at all. Moreover, even though our insurance coverage may be designed to protect us. 12. Table of Contents. from losses attributable to certain events, it may not adequately protect us from liability and expenses we incur in connection with such events.. We may not be able to successfully integrate the operations of companies we acquire, including Moy Park or GNP, or benefit from growth opportunities.. We intend to pursue additional selected growth opportunities in the future. These opportunities, including the Moy Park acquisition and the GNP acquisition, may expose us to successor liability relating to actions involving any acquired entities, their respective management or contingent liabilities incurred prior to our involvement and will expose us to liabilities associated with ongoing operations, in particular to the extent we are unable to adequately and safely manage such acquired operations. A material liability associated with these types of opportunities, or our failure to successfully integrate any acquired entities into our business, could adversely affect our reputation and have a material adverse effect on us.. Undisclosed liabilities from our acquisitions may harm our financial condition and operating results. If we make acquisitions in the future, these transactions may be structured in such a manner that would result in our assumption of undisclosed liabilities or liabilities not identified during our pre-acquisition due diligence. These obligations and liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. We may not be able to successfully integrate any growth opportunities we may undertake in the future, including the Moy Park acquisition and the GNP acquisition, or successfully implement appropriate operational, financial and administrative systems and controls to achieve the benefits that we expect to result therefrom. These risks include: (1) failure of the acquired entities to achieve expected results; (2) possible inability to retain or hire key personnel of the acquired entities; and (3) possible inability to achieve expected synergies and/or economies of scale. In addition, the process of integrating businesses could cause interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our existing business. The diversion of our management's attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the integration of these businesses could adversely affect our business, results of operations, prospects and the market price of the notes.. Competition in the chicken industry with other vertically integrated poultry companies may make us unable to compete successfully in this industry, which could adversely affect our business.. The chicken industry is highly competitive. In the U.S. and Mexico, we primarily compete with other vertically integrated chicken companies.. In general, the competitive factors in the U.S. chicken industry include price, product quality, product development, brand identification, breadth of product line and customer service. Competitive factors vary by major market. In the foodservice market, competition is based on consistent quality, product development, service and price. In the U.S. retail market, we believe that competition is based on product quality, brand awareness, customer service and price. Further, there is some competition with non-vertically integrated further processors in the prepared chicken business. In Mexico, where product differentiation has traditionally been limited, we believe product quality and price have been the most critical competitive factors.. The loss of one or more of our largest customers could adversely affect our business.. Our two largest customers accounted for approximately 11.0% of our net sales in 2017. Our business could suffer significant setbacks in revenues and operating income if we lost one or more of our largest customers, or if our customers' plans and/or markets should change significantly.. Our foreign operations pose special risks to our business and operations.. We have significant operations and assets located in Mexico and Europe and may participate in or acquire operations and assets in other foreign countries in the future. Foreign operations are subject to a number of  special risks such as currency exchange rate fluctuations, trade barriers, exchange controls, expropriation and changes in laws and policies, including tax laws and laws governing foreign-owned operations.. Currency exchange rate fluctuations have adversely affected us in the past. Exchange rate fluctuations or one or more other risks may have a material adverse effect on our business or operations in the future.. Our operations in Mexico are conducted through subsidiaries organized under the laws of Mexico. Claims of creditors of our subsidiaries, including trade creditors, will generally have priority as to the assets of our subsidiaries over our claims. Additionally, the ability of our Mexican subsidiaries to make payments and distributions to us may be limited by the terms of our Mexico credit facility and will be subject to, among other things, Mexican law. In the past, these laws have not had a material adverse effect on the ability of our Mexican subsidiaries to make these payments and distributions. However, laws such as these. 13. Table of Contents. may have a material adverse effect on the ability of our Mexican subsidiaries to make these payments and distributions in the future.. The terms of Moy Park's indenture restrict Moy Park's ability and the ability of certain of Moy Park's subsidiaries to, among other things, make payments and distributions to us. These restrictions may have a material adverse effect on Moy Park's ability to make these payments and distributions in the future.. Disruptions in international markets and distribution channels could adversely affect our business.. Historically, we have targeted international markets to generate additional demand for our products. In particular, given U.S. customers' general preference for white meat, we have targeted international markets for the sale of dark chicken meat, specifically leg quarters, which are a natural by-product of our U.S. operations' concentration on prepared chicken products. As part of this initiative, we have created a significant international distribution network into several markets in Mexico, the Middle East, Asia and countries within the Commonwealth of Independent States (the \"CIS\"). Our success in these markets may be, and our success in recent periods has been, adversely affected by disruptions in chicken export markets. For example, dozens of countries, including Mexico, Canada, China, Angola and South Korea, imposed either partial or full bans on the importation of poultry produced in the U.S. after an outbreak of HPAI H5 avian influenza was confirmed in 2015. Additionally, China imposed anti-dumping and countervailing duties on the U.S. chicken producers in 2010, which have deterred Chinese importers from purchases of U.S.-origin chicken products. Russia also banned the importation of chicken and other agricultural products from the U.S. and certain other western countries in August 2014 in retaliation for sanctions imposed by the U.S. and Europe on Russia over its actions in Ukraine.. A significant risk is disruption due to import restrictions and tariffs, other trade protection measures, and import or export licensing requirements. In addition, disruptions may be caused by outbreaks of disease such as avian influenza, either in our flocks or elsewhere in the world, and resulting changes in consumer preferences.. One or more of these or other disruptions in the international markets and distribution channels could adversely affect our business.. Regulation, present and future, is a constant factor affecting our business.. Our operations will continue to be subject to federal, state and local governmental regulation, including in the health, safety and environmental areas. Changes in laws or regulations or the application thereof regarding areas such as wage and hour and environmental compliance may lead to government enforcement actions and resulting litigation by private litigants.. In addition, unknown matters, new laws and regulations, or stricter interpretations of existing laws or regulations may also materially affect our business or operations in the future.. New immigration legislation or increased enforcement efforts in connection with existing immigration legislation could cause the costs of doing business to increase, cause us to change the way we conduct our business or otherwise disrupt our operations.. Immigration reform continues to attract significant attention in the public arena and the U.S. Congress. If new federal immigration legislation is enacted or if states in which we do business enact immigration laws, such laws may contain provisions that could make it more difficult or costly for us to hire U.S. citizens and/or legal immigrant workers. Additionally, there may be uncertainty as to the position the U.S. will take with respect to immigration following the 2016 U.S. presidential election and related change in the U.S. political agenda. In such case, we may incur additional costs to run our business or may have to change the way we conduct our operations, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Also, despite our past and continuing efforts to hire only U.S. citizens and/or persons legally authorized to work in the U.S., we may be unable to ensure that all of our employees are U.S. citizens and/or persons legally authorized to work in the U.S. No assurances can be given that enforcement efforts by governmental authorities will not disrupt a portion of our workforce or operations at one or more facilities, thereby negatively impacting our business. Also, no assurance can be given that further enforcement efforts by governmental authorities will not result in the assessment of fines that could adversely affect our financial position, operating results or cash flows.. Loss of essential employees could have a significant negative impact on our business.. Our success is largely dependent on the skills, experience, and efforts of our management and other employees. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management or of numerous employees with essential skills could have a. 14. Table of Contents. negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are not able to retain or attract talented, committed individuals to fill vacant positions when needs arise, it may adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objectives.. Our performance depends on favorable labor relations with our employees and our compliance with labor laws. Any deterioration of those relations or increase in labor costs due to our compliance with labor laws could adversely affect our business.. As of December 31, 2017, we employed approximately 30,900 persons in the U.S.,approximately 10,200 persons in Mexico and approximately 10,200 persons in the U.K. and Europe. Approximately 37.8% of the Company's employees were covered under collective bargaining agreements. Substantially all employees covered under collective bargaining agreements are covered under agreements that expire in 2018 or later. We have not experienced any labor-related work stoppage at any location in over ten years.  We believe our relationship with our employees and union leadership is satisfactory. At any given time, we will likely be in some stage of contract negotiations with various collective bargaining units. In the absence of agreements, we may become subject to labor disruption at one or more of these locations, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results.. Extreme weather, natural disasters or other events beyond our control could negatively impact our business.. Bioterrorism, fire, pandemic, extreme weather or natural disasters, including droughts, floods, excessive cold or heat, hurricanes or other storms, could impair the health or growth of our flocks, production or availability of feed ingredients, or interfere with our operations due to power outages, fuel shortages, damage to our production and processing facilities or disruption of transportation channels, among other things. Any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our financial results.. We may face significant costs for compliance with existing or changing environmental, health and safety requirements and for potential environmental obligations relating to current or discontinued operations.. Our operations are subject to extensive and increasingly stringent federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations pertaining to the protection of the environment, including those relating to the discharge of materials into the environment, the handling, treatment and disposal of wastes and remediation of soil and groundwater contamination. Failure to comply with these requirements could have serious consequences for us, including criminal as well as civil and administrative penalties, claims for property damage, personal injury and damage to natural resources and negative publicity. Compliance with existing or changing environmental requirements, including more stringent limitations imposed or expected to be imposed in recently-renewed or soon-to be renewed environmental permits, will require capital expenditures for installation of new or upgraded pollution control equipment at some of our facilities.. Operations at many of our facilities require the treatment and disposal of wastewater, stormwater and agricultural and food processing wastes, the use and maintenance of refrigeration systems, including ammonia-based chillers, noise, odor and dust management, the operation of mechanized processing equipment, and other operations that potentially could affect the environment, health and safety. Some of our facilities have been operating for many years, and were built before current environmental standards were imposed, and/or in areas that recently have become subject to residential and commercial development pressures. Failure to comply with current and future environmental, health and safety standards could result in the imposition of fines and penalties, and we have been subject to such sanctions from time to time. We are upgrading wastewater treatment facilities at a number of these locations, either pursuant to consent agreements with regulatory authorities or on a voluntary basis in anticipation of future permit requirements.. In the past, we have acquired businesses with operations such as pesticide and fertilizer production that involved greater use of hazardous materials and generation of more hazardous wastes than our current operations. While many of those operations have been sold or closed, some environmental laws impose strict and, in certain circumstances, joint and several liability for costs of investigation and remediation of contaminated sites on current and former owners and operators of the sites, and on persons who arranged for disposal of wastes at such sites. In addition, current owners or operators of such contaminated sites may seek to recover cleanup costs from us based on past operations or contractual indemnifications.. New environmental, health and safety requirements, stricter interpretations of existing requirements, or obligations related to the investigation or clean-up of contaminated sites, may materially affect our business or operations in the future.. JBS USA beneficially owns a majority of our common stock and has the ability to control the vote on most matters brought before the holders of our common stock.. JBS USA beneficially owns a majority of the shares and voting power of our common stock and is entitled to appoint a majority of the members of our Board of Directors. As a result, JBS USA will, subject to restrictions on its voting power and actions in a stockholders agreement between JBS USA and us and our organization documents, have the ability to control our. 15. Table of Contents. management, policies and financing decisions, elect a majority of the members of our Board of Directors at the annual meeting and control the vote on most matters coming before the holders of our common stock.. Under the stockholders agreement between JBS USA and us, JBS USA has the ability to elect up to six members of our Board of Directors and the other holders of our common stock have the ability to elect up to three members of our Board of Directors. If the percentage of our outstanding common stock owned by JBS USA exceeds 80%, then JBS USA would have the ability to elect one additional member of our Board of Directors while the other holders of our common stock would have the ability to elect one less member of our Board of Directors.. J&F Investimentos S.A. is investigating improper payments made in Brazil in connection with admissions of illicit conduct to the Brazilian Federal Prosecutor's Office and the outcome of this investigation and related investigations by the Brazilian government could have a material adverse effect on us.. On May 3, 2017, certain officers of J&F Investimentos S.A. (\"J&F,\" and the companies controlled by J&F, the \"J&F Group\") (including two former directors of the Company), a company organized in Brazil and an indirect controlling stockholder of the Company, entered into plea bargain agreements (the \"Plea Bargain Agreements\") with the Brazilian Federal Prosecutor's Office (Ministério Público Federal) (\"MPF\") in connection with certain illicit conduct involving improper payments made to Brazilian politicians, government officials and other individuals in Brazil committed by or on behalf of J&F and certain J&F Group companies. The details of such illicit conduct are set forth in separate annexes to the Plea Bargain Agreements, and include admissions of improper payments to politicians and political parties in Brazil over the last 10 years in exchange for receiving, or attempting to receive, favorable treatment for certain J&F Group companies in Brazil.. Pursuant to the terms of the Plea Bargain Agreements, the MPF agreed to grant immunity to the officers in exchange for such officers agreeing, among other considerations, to: (1) pay fines totaling R$225.0 million; (2) cooperate with the MPF, including providing supporting evidence of the illicit conduct identified in the annexes to the Plea Bargain Agreements; and (3) present any previously undisclosed illicit conduct within 120 days following the execution of the Plea Bargain Agreements as long as the description of such conduct had not been omitted in bad faith. In addition, the Plea Bargain Agreements provide that the MPF may terminate any Plea Bargain Agreement and request that the Supreme Court of Brazil (Supremo Tribunal Federal) (\"STF\") ratify such termination if any illicit conduct is identified that was not included in the annexes to the Plea Bargain Agreements.. On June 5, 2017, J&F, in its role as the controlling shareholder of the J&F Group, entered into a leniency agreement (the \"Leniency Agreement\") with the MPF, whereby J&F assumed responsibility for the conduct that was described in the annexes to the Plea Bargain Agreements. In connection with the Leniency Agreement, J&F has agreed to pay a fine of R$10.3 billion, adjusted for inflation, over a 25- year period. In exchange, the MPF agreed not to initiate or propose any criminal, civil or administrative actions against J&F, the companies of the J&F Group or those officers of J&F with respect to such conduct. Pursuant to the terms of the Leniency Agreement, if the Plea Bargain Agreement is annulled by the STF, then the Leniency Agreement may also be terminated by the Fifth Chamber of Coordination and Reviews of the MPF or, solely with respect to the criminal related provisions of the Leniency Agreement, by the 10th Federal Court of the Federal District in Brasilia, the authorities responsible for the ratification of the Leniency Agreement.. On August 24, 2017, the Fifth Chamber ratified the Leniency Agreement. On September 8, 2017, the 10th Federal Court ratified the Leniency Agreement. In compliance with the terms of the Leniency Agreement, J&F is conducting an internal investigation involving improper payments made in Brazil by or on behalf of J&F, certain companies of the J&F Group and certain officers of J&F (including two former directors of the Company). J&F has engaged outside advisors to assist in conducting the investigation, including an assessment as to whether any of the misconduct disclosed to Brazilian authorities had any connection to the Company, or resulted in a violation of U.S. law. The internal investigation is ongoing and the Company is fully cooperating with J&F in connection with the investigation. We cannot predict when the investigation will be completed or the results of the investigation, including the outcome or impact of any government investigations or any resulting litigation.. On September 8, 2017, at the request of the MPF, the STF issued an order temporarily revoking the immunity from prosecution previously granted to Joesley Mendonça Batista and another executive of J&F in connection with the Plea Bargain Agreements. The MPF requested the revocation of their immunity following public disclosure of certain voice recordings involving them in which they discussed certain alleged illicit activities the MPF claims were not covered by the annexes to their respective Plea Bargain Agreements. On September 10, 2017, Joesley Mendonça Batista voluntarily turned himself into police in Brazil. On September 11, 2017, the 10th Federal Court suspended its ratification of the criminal provisions of the Leniency Agreement as a result of the STF's temporary revocation of Joesley Mendonça Batista immunity under his Plea Bargain Agreement. On October 11, 2017, Judge Vallisney de Souza of the 10th Federal Court revalidated the criminal provisions of the Leniency Agreement.. We cannot predict whether the Plea Bargain Agreements will be upheld or terminated by the STF, and, if terminated, whether the Leniency Agreement will be also terminated by either the Fifth Chamber and/or the 10th Federal Court, and to what. 16. Table of Contents. extent. If the Leniency Agreement is terminated, in whole or in part, as a result of any Plea Bargain Agreement being terminated, this may materially adversely affect the public perception or reputation of the J&F Group, including the Company, and could have a material adverse effect on the J&F Group's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Furthermore, the termination of the Leniency Agreement may cause the termination of certain stabilization agreements entered into by JBS S.A. and certain of its subsidiaries, which would permit the lenders of the debt that is the subject to the terms of the stabilization agreements to accelerate their debt, which could have a material adverse effect on JBS S.A. and its subsidiaries (including the Company).. Separately, Wesley Mendonça Batista (the former Chief Executive Officer of JBS S.A.) was arrested on September 13, 2017, as a result of a separate investigation by Brazil's federal police alleging that Joesley Mendonça Batista and Wesley Mendonça Batista carried out insider trading transactions involving the sale of shares of JBS S.A. and foreign exchange futures contracts prior to the announcement of the Plea Bargain Agreements. The Securities and Exchange Commission of Brazil (Comissão de Valores Mobiliários) is also investigating these insider trading transactions. On September 21, 2017, the Brazilian federal police formally requested that the federal prosecutor bring charges against Joesley Mendonça Batista and Wesley Mendonça Batista as a result of this investigation. These investigations, possible indictments and any further developments in this matter may materially adversely affect the public perception or reputation of JBS S.A. and its subsidiaries (including the Company) and could have a material adverse effect on JBS S.A. and its subsidiaries (including the Company).. Our operations are subject to general risks of litigation.. We are involved on an ongoing basis in litigation relating to alleged antitrust violations or arising in the ordinary course of business or otherwise.  For example, between September 2, 2016 and October 13, 2016, ten purported class action lawsuits were brought against Pilgrim's and 13 other producers by and on behalf of direct and indirect purchasers of broiler chickens. The complaints, which were filed with the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, seek, among other relief, treble damages for an alleged conspiracy among defendants to reduce output and increase prices of broiler chickens from the period of January 2008 to the present.  See \"Item 3. Legal Proceedings.\" Trends in litigation may include class actions involving consumers, shareholders, employees or injured persons, and claims relating to commercial, labor, employment, antitrust, securities or environmental matters. Litigation trends and the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty, and adverse litigation trends and outcomes could result material damages, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to anti-corruption laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act.. We are subject to a number of anti-corruption laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\") and the UK Bribery Act.. The FCPA and similar anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments or improperly providing anything of value to foreign officials, directly or indirectly, for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business and/or other benefits. Some of these laws have legal effect outside the jurisdictions in which they are adopted under certain circumstances. The FCPA also requires maintenance of adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately reflect transactions. Under the FCPA, companies operating in the United States may be held liable for actions taken by their strategic or local partners or representatives.. The UK Bribery Act is broader in scope than the FCPA in that it directly prohibits commercial bribery (i.e. bribing others than government officials) in addition to bribery of government officials and it does not recognize certain exceptions, notably for facilitation payments, that are permitted by the FCPA. The UK Bribery Act also has wide jurisdiction. It covers any offense committed in the United Kingdom, but proceedings can also be brought if a person who has a close connection with the United Kingdom commits the relevant acts or omissions outside the United Kingdom. The UK Bribery Act defines a person with a close connection to include British citizens, individuals ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and bodies incorporated in the United Kingdom.. The UK Bribery Act also provides that any organization that conducts part of its business in the United Kingdom, even if it is not incorporated in the United Kingdom, can be prosecuted for the corporate offense of failing to prevent bribery by an associated person, even if the bribery took place entirely outside the United Kingdom and the associated person had no connection with the United Kingdom. Other jurisdictions in which we operate have adopted similar anti-corruption, anti-bribery and anti-kickback laws to which we are subject. Civil and criminal penalties may be imposed for violations of these laws.. Although the code of ethics and standards of conduct adopted by JBS S.A. in late 2015 requires our employees to comply with the FCPA and the UK Bribery Act, we are still implementing a formal compliance program and policies that cover our employees and consultants. We operate in some countries which are viewed as high risk for corruption. Despite our ongoing efforts to ensure compliance with the FCPA, the UK Bribery Act and similar laws, there can be no assurance that our directors, officers,. 17. Table of Contents. employees, agents, third-party intermediaries and the companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, will comply with those laws and our anti-corruption policies, and we may be ultimately held responsible for any such non-compliance. If we or our directors or officers violate anti-corruption laws or other laws governing the conduct of business with government entities (including local laws), we or our directors or officers may be subject to criminal and civil penalties or other remedial measures, which could harm our reputation and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Any actual or alleged violations of such laws could also harm our reputation or have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We depend on contract growers and independent producers to supply us with livestock.. We contract primarily with independent contract growers to raise the live chickens processed in our poultry operations. If we do not attract and maintain contracts with growers or maintain marketing and purchasing relationships with independent producers, our production operations could be negatively affected.. Changes in consumer preference could negatively impact our business.. The food industry in general is subject to changing consumer trends, demands and preferences. Trends within the food industry change often, and failure to identify and react to changes in these trends could lead to, among other things, reduced demand and price reductions for our products, and could have an adverse effect on our financial results.. The consolidation of customers could negatively impact our business.. Our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years, and consolidation is expected to continue throughout the U.S. and in other major markets. These consolidations have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power who are more capable of operating with reduced inventories, opposing price increases, and demanding lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products. These customers also may use shelf space currently used for our products for their own private label products. Because of these trends, our volume growth could slow or we may need to lower prices or increase promotional spending for our products, any of which could adversely affect our financial results.. We are increasingly dependent on information technology, and our business and reputation could suffer if we are unable to protect our information technology systems against, or effectively respond to, cyber-attacks, other cyber incidents or security breaches or if our information technology systems are otherwise disrupted.. The proper functioning of our information systems is critical to the successful operation of our business. Although our information systems are protected with robust backup systems, including physical and software safeguards and remote processing capabilities, information systems are still vulnerable to natural disasters, power losses, unauthorized access, telecommunication failures, and other problems. In addition, certain software used by us is licensed from, and certain services related to our information systems are provided by, third parties who could choose to discontinue their relationship with us. If critical  information systems fail or these systems or related software or services are otherwise unavailable, our ability to process orders, maintain proper levels of inventories, collect accounts receivable, pay expenses, and maintain the security of Company and customer data could be adversely affected.. Cyber-attacks and other cyber incidents are occurring more frequently and are constantly evolving in nature and sophistication. Our failure to maintain our cyber-security measures and keep abreast of new and evolving threats may make our systems vulnerable. The vulnerability of our systems and our failure to identify or respond timely to cyber incidents could have an adverse effect on our operations and reputation and expose us to liability or regulatory enforcement actions.. Our future financial and operating flexibility may be adversely affected by significant leverage.. On a consolidated basis, as of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $865.2 million in secured indebtedness, $1,844.2 million of unsecured indebtedness and had the ability to borrow approximately $750.1 million under our credit agreements. Significant amounts of cash flow will be necessary to make payments of interest and repay the principal amount of such indebtedness.. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences because:. • It could affect our ability to satisfy our obligations under our credit agreements;. • A substantial portion of our cash flow from operations is required to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes;. 18. Table of Contents. • Our ability to obtain additional financing and to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements in the future may be impaired;. • We may be more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage;. • Our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business may be limited;. • It may limit our ability to pursue acquisitions and sell assets; and. • It may make us more vulnerable in the event of a continued or new downturn in our business or the economy in general.. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt, including our credit facilities, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to various business factors (including, among others, the commodity prices of feed ingredients and chicken) and general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors that are beyond our control.. There can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available under our credit facilities in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt obligations, including obligations under our credit facilities, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of their debt on or before maturity. There can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of their debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all.. Impairment in the carrying value of goodwill could negatively affect our operating results.. We have a significant amount of goodwill on our Consolidated and Combined Balance Sheet. Under generally accepted accounting principles, goodwill must be evaluated for impairment annually or more frequently if events indicate it is warranted. If the carrying value of our reporting units exceeds their current fair value as determined based on the discounted future cash flows of the related business, the goodwill is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value by a non-cash charge to earnings. Events and conditions that could result in impairment in the value of our goodwill include changes in the industry in which we operate, particularly the impact of a downturn in the global economy or the economies of geographic regions or countries in which we operate, as well as competition, adverse changes in the regulatory environment, or other factors leading to reduction in expected long-term sales or profitability.. Media campaigns related to food production present risks.. Individuals or organizations can use social media platforms to publicize inappropriate or inaccurate stories or perceptions about the food production industry or our company. Such practices could cause damage to the reputations of our company and/or the food production industry in general. This damage could adversely affect our financial results.. Assumption of unknown liabilities in acquisitions may harm our financial condition and operating results.. Acquisitions may be structured in such a manner that would result in the assumption of unknown liabilities not disclosed by the seller or uncovered during pre-acquisition due diligence. For example, our acquisition of GNP was structured as an equity purchase in which we effectively assumed all of the liabilities of GNP including liabilities that may be unknown. Such unknown obligations and liabilities could harm our financial condition and operating results.. We may pursue additional opportunities to acquire complementary businesses, which could further increase leverage and debt service requirements and could adversely affect our financial situation if we fail to successfully integrate the acquired business.. We intend to continue to pursue selective acquisitions of complementary businesses in the future. Inherent in any future acquisitions are certain risks such as increasing leverage and debt service requirements and combining company cultures and facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, particularly during the period immediately following such acquisitions. Additional debt or equity capital may be required to complete future acquisitions, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to raise the required capital. Furthermore, acquisitions involve a number of risks and challenges, including:. •Diversion of management's attention;. •The need to integrate acquired operations;. •Potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies;. 19. Table of Contents. •Lack of experience in operating in the geographical market of the acquired business; and. •An increase in our expenses and working capital requirements.. Any of these and other factors could adversely affect our ability to achieve anticipated cash flows at acquired operations or realize other anticipated benefits of acquisitions.. The vote by the U.K. electorate in favor of having the U.K. exit the European Union could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In a referendum held in the U.K. on June 23, 2016, a majority of those voting voted for the U.K. to leave the European Union (referred to as \"Brexit\"). For now, the U.K. remains a member of the European Union and there will not be any immediate change in either European Union or U.K. law as a consequence of the vote. European Union law does not govern contracts and the U.K. is not part of the European Union's monetary union. However, Brexit vote signals the beginning of a lengthy process under which the terms of the U.K.'s withdrawal from, and future relationship with, the European Union will be negotiated and legislation to implement the U.K.'s withdrawal from the European Union will be enacted. The ultimate impact of Brexit vote will depend on the terms that are negotiated in relation to the U.K.'s future relationship with the European Union. Although the timetable for U.K. withdrawal is not at all clear at this stage, it is likely that the withdrawal of the U.K. from the European Union will take more than two years to be negotiated and conclude.. Brexit could impair our ability to transact business in the U.K. and in countries in the European Union. Brexit has already and could continue to adversely affect European and/or worldwide economic and market conditions and could continue to contribute to instability in the global financial markets. The long-term effects of Brexit will depend in part on any agreements the U.K. makes to retain access to markets in the European Union following the U.K.'s withdrawal from the European Union. In addition, we expect that Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. determines which European Union laws to replicate or replace. If the U.K. were to significantly alter its regulations affecting the food industry, we could face significant new costs. It may also be time-consuming and expensive for us to alter our internal operations in order to comply with new regulations.  Additionally, Moy Park's results of operations may be adversely affected if the U.K. is unable to secure replacement trade agreements and arrangements on terms as favorable as those currently enjoyed by the U.K. Any of the effects of Brexit could adversely affect our business, business opportunities, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows."
